Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook below. In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the Company also holds intellectual property in the form of trademarks, on products such as EXCEDRIN, ENFAMIL, THERAGRAN, KERI and BUFFERIN. Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing value. Worldwide, all of the Companys important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant Company sales: United States A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the United States must file a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. The type of application filed depends on whether the drug is a chemical (a small molecule) or a biological product (a large molecule). If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a NDA. If the medicine is a biological product, a BLA is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights. A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the United States must file an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) with the FDA. In the ANDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only bioequivalence between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The ANDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA. Medicines approved under an NDA can receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical (also known as a new chemical entity) is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which an ANDA cannot be filed with the FDA. If an innovators patent is challenged, as described below, the generic manufacturer may file its ANDA after the fourth year of the five year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection. Finally, an NDA that is designated as an Orphan Drug, which is a drug that gains an indication for treatment of a condition that occurs only rarely in the United States, can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period neither NDAs nor ANDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. Because a significant portion of patent life can be lost during the time it takes to obtain regulatory approval, the innovator can extend one patent to compensate the innovator for the lost patent term, at least in part. More specifically, the innovator may identify one patent, which claims the product or its approved method of use, and, depending on a number of factors, may extend the expiration date of that patent. There are two limits to these extensions. First, the maximum term a patent can be extended is 5 years, and second, the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of NDA approval. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity. This six month period extends most forms of exclusivity (patent and regulatory) that are listed with the FDA at the time the studies are completed and submitted to the FDA. Currently, generic versions of biological products cannot be approved under U.S. law; however, the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of biologics, and these laws could change in the near future. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own safety and efficacy data, and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which involves more complex processes and are more costly than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. Beyond the minimum period of regulatory exclusivity provided by U.S. law, many (but not all) innovative drugs are also covered by patents held by the NDA sponsor. The innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA until after the innovators listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an ANDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovators NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This allegation 20 Table of Contents is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must choose whether to file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patents. If one or more of the NDA listed patents are successfully challenged, or if the innovator chooses not to sue, the first filer of a Paragraph IV certification may be entitled to a 180 day period of market exclusivity as against all other generic manufacturers. From time to time ANDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of the Companys products. The Company evaluates these ANDAs on a case by case basis and, where warranted, files suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patent rights. Several recent developments in the United States have increased the likelihood of generic challenges to innovators intellectual property, and thus, increased the risk of loss of innovators market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. For a discussion of one such litigation related to patent challenges by generic companies, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies PLAVIX* Litigation. Second, new statutory and regulatory provisions in the United States limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. Third, the FDA is actively considering ways to expand the use of a regulatory mechanism that allows for regulatory approval of drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required for a full NDA. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular Company product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. For more information about new legislation, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. European Union In the EU, most innovative pharmaceuticals are entitled to ten years of regulatory data protection if marketing approval is obtained via the centralized procedure. A product that receives approval under the centralized procedure automatically receives approval in every member state of the EU. However, a company then must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months, and sometimes years, to obtain. Consequently, regardless of whether or not the innovative medicine is covered by patents, generic copies relying on the innovators data usually cannot be approved for a minimum of ten years after approval. For innovative pharmaceuticals that gain marketing approval using the non centralized mutual recognition procedure, this period is six or ten years depending on the individual EU member state. However, regardless of regulatory exclusivity, competitors may obtain approval of an identical product on the basis of their own safety and efficacy data at any time. For more information regarding the regulation of pharmaceutical products in the EU, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU. However, in contrast to the United States, patents are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic copies can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant. As in the United States, patents in the EU may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country by country basis. In general, EU law treats chemically synthesized drugs and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. Japan In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded six years of protection for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data protection and patent expirations. As in the United States, patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. In general, Japanese law treats chemically synthesized and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. Rest of World In countries outside of the United States, the EU and Japan, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the United States (e.g., Canada) or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among less developed countries, some have adopted patent laws and or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some less developed nations have formally adopted laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO obligations is a long process, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of 21 Table of Contents the Companys innovative drugs in less developed countries, the Company takes into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well. Marketing, Distribution and Customers In the Companys Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals segments and in its ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, the Company promotes its products in medical journals and directly to healthcare providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) and government agencies. The Company also markets directly to consumers in the United States through direct to consumer print, radio and television advertising. In addition, the Company sponsors general advertising to educate the public about its innovative medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. Through the Companys sales and marketing organizations, the Company explains the approved uses and advantages of its products to medical professionals. The Company works to gain access to health authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products) and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of its products. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but the Company continues to develop information about its products and provides such information in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors and other medical professionals. All drugs must complete clinical trials required by regulatory authorities to show they are safe and effective for treating one or more medical problems. A manufacturer may choose, however, to undertake additional studies, including comparative clinical trials with competitive products, to demonstrate additional advantages of a compound. Those studies can be costly and take years to complete, and the results are uncertain. Balancing these considerations makes it difficult to decide whether and when to undertake such additional studies. But, when they are successful, such studies can have a major impact on approved marketing claims and strategies. The Companys operations include several pharmaceutical marketing and sales organizations. Each organization markets a distinct group of products supported by a sales force and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas or physician groups. These sales forces often focus on selling new products when they are introduced, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and high value primary care physicians. In addition, Ventiv Pharma Services, LLC, a division of Ventiv Health, Inc., provides the Company with a sales force of over 375 representatives focused on CEFZIL and TEQUIN. The Companys prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but the Company also sells directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. In 2004, sales to three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the United States, McKesson, Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen Corporation (AmerisourceBergen) accounted for approximately 19%, 17% and 10%, respectively, of the Companys total net sales. In 2003, sales to McKesson, Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 17%, 15% and 13%, respectively, of the Companys total net sales. In 2002, sales to McKesson and AmerisourceBergen each accounted for approximately 16% of the Companys total net sales and sales to Cardinal accounted for 15% of the Companys total net sales. Sales to these U.S. wholesalers were concentrated in the Pharmaceuticals segment. Through 2002, the Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business. For further discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements. In 2003, the Company took steps intended to moderate inventory buying by U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which can result in sales fluctuations unrelated to consumer demand. In 2003, the Company entered into new inventory management agreements (IMAs) with AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal, McKesson and other wholesalers. The agreements have terms of 2 years, cancelable by either party after 1 year. The IMAs generally establish limits on inventory levels of BMS pharmaceutical products held by the wholesalers, permit limited buy ins of BMS pharmaceutical products by the wholesalers after price increases at pre price increase prices, and require the wholesalers to provide the Company with data relating to the wholesalers sales and inventory levels of BMS pharmaceutical products. The IMAs will expire between September 2005 and December 2005. The Company has had discussions with certain of its U.S. wholesaler customers about extending and renewing its agreements for periods beyond their current expiration. The Company expects these discussions to continue during 2005. The Company is the exclusive distributor of ERBITUX* in North America. Under the terms of an agreement with McKesson, McKesson provides warehousing, packing and shipping for filling orders for ERBITUX*. To maintain the integrity of the product, special storage conditions and handling are required. Accordingly, all sales of ERBITUX*, including purchase requests from other wholesalers, are processed through the Company, and McKesson will only ship ERBITUX* to end users of the product and not to other intermediaries to hold for later sales. This agreement expires March 31, 2005, however the Company has the option to extend the agreement to June 30, 2005. For information on sales and marketing of consumer medicines and nutritionals, see Nutritionals Segment and Other Healthcare Segment Consumer Medicines above. 22 Table of Contents Competition The markets in which the Company competes are generally broad based and highly competitive. The principal means of competition vary among product categories and business groups. The Companys Pharmaceuticals segment competes with other worldwide research based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of the Companys products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitors product has greater efficacy for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of the Companys products. The Companys sales also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements for better tolerability, safety or convenience that may be imposed on its products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, the Companys products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both. For example, in the growing market for statins, which reduce cholesterol, PRAVACHOL, the Companys second largest product ranked by 2004 net sales ($2.6 billion), experienced increased competition from established brands and new entrants. U.S. prescriptions for PRAVACHOL declined 10% in 2004 compared to 2003. PRAVACHOL has begun to lose exclusivity in Europe. Between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2006, its expected rate of decline in sales and in share of the statin segment could be accelerated by increased competition. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, the Company must often demonstrate that its products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that the Company introduces must compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in research and development than research based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. In certain countries outside the United States, patent protection is weak or nonexistent and the Company must compete with generic versions shortly after it launches its innovative product. Many other companies, large and small, manufacture and sell one or more products that are similar to those marketed by the Companys Nutritionals and Other Healthcare segments. Sources of competitive advantage include product quality and efficacy, brand identity, advertising and promotion, product innovation, broad distribution capabilities, customer satisfaction and price. Significant expenditures for advertising, promotion and marketing are generally required to achieve both consumer and trade acceptance of these products. The Company believes its long term competitive position depends upon its success in discovering and developing innovative, cost effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with its ability to manufacture the products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that the Companys research and development efforts will result in commercially successful products or that its products or processes will not become outmoded from time to time as a result of products or processes developed by its competitors. Managed Care Organizations The growth of MCOs in the United States has been a major factor in the competitive make up of the healthcare marketplace. Over half the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve many of those organizations has become important to the Companys business. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities, enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to the Company. A major objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce health care expenditures. They typically use formularies, volume purchases and long term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients use of products listed on their formularies. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall 23 Table of Contents cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. The Company has been generally, although not universally, successful in having its major products included on MCO formularies. Generic Competition One of the biggest competitive challenges that the Company faces in the United States and, to a less extent, internationally is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, the Company can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time. In the United States, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, and allows generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the pioneer product. Therefore, generic competitors operate without the Companys large research and development expenses and its costs of conveying medical information about the product to the medical community. For more information about market exclusivity, see Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity above. The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in less developed countries. The rate of sales decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture. As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the United States generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to a brand name drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. These laws and policies provide an added incentive for generic manufacturers to seek marketing approval as the automatic substitution removes the need for generic manufacturers to incur many of the sales and marketing costs, which innovators must incur. Research and Development The Company invests heavily in research and development because it believes it is critical to its long term competitiveness. Pharmaceutical research and development is carried out by the Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute, which has major facilities in Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New Jersey and Wallingford, Connecticut. Pharmaceutical research and development is also carried out at various other facilities in the United States and in Belgium, Canada, France, and the United Kingdom. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in the Pharmaceutical Research Institute. The Company spent $2,500 million in 2004, $2,279 million in 2003 and $2,206 million in 2002 on Company sponsored research and development activities. Company sponsored pharmaceutical research and development spending (including certain payments under third party collaborations and contracts), as a percentage of Pharmaceutical sales, was 14.8% in 2004, compared with 14.2% in 2003 and 16.5% in 2002. At the end of 2004, the Company employed approximately 7,300 people in research and development throughout the Company, including over 5,500 in the Pharmaceutical Research Institute, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher skilled technical personnel. The Company concentrates its pharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following ten critical disease areas: Affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimers/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. However, the Company continues to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, the Company looks for ways to expand the value of existing products through new uses and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients. To supplement the Companys internal efforts, the Company collaborates with independent research organizations, including educational institutions and research based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and contracts with others for the performance of research in their facilities. The Company uses the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products. The Company actively seeks out investments in external research and technologies that hold the promise to complement and strengthen its own 24 Table of Contents research efforts. These investments can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint ventures. Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new molecular entities through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA or the BLA to the FDA for the required approval. The development of certain other products is also subject to government regulations covering safety and efficacy in the United States and many foreign countries. There can be no assurance that a compound developed as a result of any program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed for any particular disease indication. On average, only about one in ten thousand chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes ten years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. The Company believes its investments in research, both internally and in collaboration with others, have been rewarded by the number of new pharmaceutical compounds and indications it has in all stages of development. The Companys drug discovery program includes many alliances and collaborative agreements. These agreements bring new products into the pipeline or help the Company remain on the cutting edge of technology in the search for novel medicines. Listed below are several investigational compounds that the Company has in the later stages of development. All of these compounds are in or entering Phase II or Phase III clinical trials. Whether or not any of these investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of the Companys marketed products depends on the results of pre clinical and clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential products market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. The Company filed applications to the FDA for entecavir in September 2004 and muraglitazar in December 2004. The Company also filed a rolling BLA for abatacept (CTLA4Ig) under the provisions of the FDAs Continuous Marketing Application, Pilot 1 and expects that submission to be completed in early 2005. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that the Company will seek regulatory approval of any of these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. At this stage of development, the Company cannot determine all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below does not include potential term extensions. Abatacept CTLA4Ig, a biological product which has been developed internally and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at rheumatoid arthritis. Abatacept has been granted fast track status by the U.S. FDA and the Company is filing a rolling BLA for abatacept under the provisions of Continuous Marketing Application, Pilot 1. Complete Non Clinical and Clinical sections have already been submitted to the FDA and the remaining sections will be submitted in early 2005. The Company has a series of patents covering CTLA4Ig and its method of use. The latest of the composition of matter patents expires in the United States in 2016. U.S. litigation with Repligen Corporation (Repligen) concerning the inventorship of CTLA4Ig has been concluded in favor of the Company. Repligen has received a U.S. patent that claims a use of CTLA4Ig to treat specific autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis. For more information about this litigation, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Entecavir Entecavir, which has been developed internally and is currently under regulatory review, is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus. The Company submitted an NDA to the FDA and a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Evaluation Agency in October 2004. The Company has a composition of matter patent that expires in the United States in 2010. Muraglitazar Muraglitazar, which has been developed internally and is currently under regulatory review, is a dual PPAR agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and other metabolic disorders. The Company submitted an NDA to the FDA in December 2004. The product is being codeveloped and copromoted under a collaboration agreement with Merck. The Company has a composition of matter patent which expires in the United States in 2020. EMSAM* EMSAM*, an investigational monoamine oxidase inhibitor administered as a transdermal patch for the acute and maintenance treatment of patients with major depressive disorder, is being codeveloped with Somerset and has received an approvable letter from the FDA in February 2004. 25 Table of Contents Ixabepilone Ixabepilone, an epothilone, which has been developed internally and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a novel tubulin inhibitor for multiple tumor types. The Company has a composition of matter patent in the United States that expires in 2018. JAVLOR* Vinflunine, which is being codeveloped with Pierre Fabre and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a novel investigational anti cancer agent. Pierre Fabre has a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2014. MDX 010 MDX 010, which is being codeveloped with Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a monoclonal antibody being investigated as a late stage anticancer treatment. It is in a novel class of agents intended to potentiate elements of the immunologic response. The Company owns a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2016 and has rights to method of use patents owned by Medarex that expire in the U.S. in 2015. The Company also has rights to pending Medarex patent applications covering composition of matter and method of use of MDX 010. LEA29Y LEA29Y, a biological product, which is being developed internally and is currently transitioning to Phase III clinical trials, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at solid organ transplant. The Company has pending patent applications in the United States and Japan, and a granted patent application in the EU, covering LEA29Y. Saxagliptin Saxagliptin, which is being developed internally and is currently in Phase II clinical trials, is an oral compound for the potential treatment of diabetes. A patent application covering the composition of matter has been issued, and will expire in 2021 in the United States. SRC/ABL SRC/ABL, which is being developed internally and is currently transitioning to an accelerated Phase II program, is a kinase inhibitor for chronic myelosenous leukemia. The Company has a composition of matter patent which expires in 2020. The Company will not pursue further development of Razaxaban, the Companys first factor Xa inhibitor studied in patients. Although Razaxaban provided proof of principle for the molecular target in Phase II clinical trials for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis, the Company has identified another factor Xa inhibitor, which was a follow on to Razaxaban, that has a more favorable profile. That factor Xa inhibitor is being developed internally for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis and is currently in Phase II clinical trials. The Company has one or more patent(s) and or pending patent application(s) that cover the composition of matter, which expire (or, in the case of a pending patent application, will expire if issued), in the U.S. between 2019 and 2022. The Companys competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. In addition, the consolidation that has occurred in the pharmaceutical industry has created companies with substantial research and development resources. The extent to which the Companys competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of its products and unanticipated product obsolescence. Government Regulation and Price Constraints The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion of the Companys products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, the Companys operations are subject to complex federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. The Company anticipates that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time, expense and significant capital investment. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of the Companys businesses and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post marketing surveillance of the Companys pharmaceutical products. The FDA also regulates most of the Companys Nutritionals and Other Healthcare products. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. 26 Table of Contents The Companys pharmaceutical products are subject to pre market approval requirements in the United States. New drugs are approved under, and are subject to, the FDC Act and related regulations. Biological drugs are subject to both the FDC Act and the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act), and related regulations. Biological drugs are licensed under the PHS Act. The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to ensure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. The federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, and civil monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by the Company could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Marketing authorization for the Companys products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, known as PDMA, as part of the FDC Act, which regulates such activities at both the federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel record keeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other diversions. The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to federal and state health care laws that are used to protect the integrity of government health care programs. The Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) oversees compliance with applicable federal laws, in connection with the payment for products by government funded programs (primarily Medicaid and Medicare.) These laws include the federal anti kickback statute which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or services reimbursed under a government health care program. The OIG has issued a series of Guidances to segments of the health care industry, including a recommendation that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. The Company subscribes to the PhRMA Code, and has implemented a compliance program to address the requirements set forth in the OIG Guidance and its compliance with the health care laws. Failure to comply with these health care laws could subject the Company to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by the state and federal government agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies, the impact of which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the United States. The Company is also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce controlled substances. The Company is, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by those organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies. Various federal and state agencies have regulatory authority regarding the manufacture, storage, transportation and disposal of many Medical Imaging products because of their radioactive nature. The Companys activities outside the United States are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of the Companys products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. In the EU, there are two ways that a company can obtain marketing authorization for a pharmaceutical product. The first route is the centralized procedure. This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, but also is available for certain new chemical compounds and products. The second route to obtain 27 Table of Contents marketing authorization in the EU is the mutual recognition procedure. Applications are made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. As set forth above, pricing and reimbursement of the product continues to be the subject of member state law. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the United States or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from country to country and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the United States. Approval in one country does not assure that such product will be approved in another country. In many markets outside the United States, the Company operates in an environment of government mandated, cost containment programs. Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and or enacted across the board price cuts as methods of cost control. Most European countries do not provide market pricing for new medicines, except the United Kingdom and Germany. Pricing freedom is limited in the United Kingdom by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, in market access for new products, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within Europe due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. Similar cost containment issues exist in many foreign countries where the Company does business. On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (MMA) was enacted to provide outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the United States. Under the legislation, an interim drug discount card program began in June 2004 allowing Medicare beneficiaries to obtain a Medicare endorsed, drug discount card from an MCO, PBM or other private sector provider, while the main drug benefit, eligibility for a stand alone drug plan, is scheduled to begin in 2006. The new drug benefit will be administered regionally through private insurance plans or PBMs, and the law allows Medicare to negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies in regions without a private drug benefit program. The legislation allows for the importation of less expensive prescription drugs from Canada, but only if the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services certifies that such importation would be safe and would result in savings to customers, which it has so far not done. There can be no assurance that this certification requirement will be maintained in future legislation or that the certification will continue to be withheld. Prior to the MMA, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the U.S. from a considerably larger group of developed countries, provided the U.S. Health and Human Services Department made the same safety and cost savings certifications. The Company cannot predict the potential impact that this legislation will have on its business, because it is not clear how the law will be implemented by regulators or received by consumers and physicians. While usage of pharmaceuticals may increase as the result of the expanded access to medicines afforded by the partial reimbursement under Medicare, this may be offset by increased pricing pressures due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector providers that will negotiate on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. The impact of this legislation was negative for the Companys U.S. oncology business in 2004, as reimbursement levels have been reduced for certain oncology products administered in the outpatient setting, including PARAPLATIN. The impact could also be negative over the intermediate and longer term for the Companys U.S. pharmaceutical business generally as greater federal involvement and budget constraints may increase the likelihood of pricing pressures or controls in the future. Federal and state governments also have pursued direct methods to reduce the cost of drugs for which they pay. The Company participates in state government managed Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. Rebates under Medicaid and related state programs reduced revenues by $673 million in 2004, $523 million in 2003 and $490 million in 2002. The Company also participates in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined non federal average manufacturer price for purchases. Other prime vendor programs in which the Company participates provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). The Company recorded discounts related to the prime vendor programs of $1,319 million in 2004, $1,228 million in 2003 and $1,028 million in 2002. 28 Table of Contents In 2004, the Company conducted an analysis of its past and proposed systems for calculating prices for reporting under governmental rebate and pricing programs. The results of this analysis identified the need for revisions to the methodology and processes used for calculating past rebate amounts and reported pricing. In the third quarter of 2004, based on the results of the Companys analysis to date, the Company recorded a liability, which was not material, equal to the estimated additional rebate liability resulting from these revisions. Upon completion of the analysis in the fourth quarter, the Company determined that this liability was not necessary and, consequently, has reversed it. The Company has remediated its internal controls over these processes and procedures the Company believes resulted in these proposed revisions to its rebate calculation methodology and continues to strengthen such internal controls. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies Pricing, Sales and Promotional Practices Litigation and Investigations. In the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for WIC. All states participate in the WIC program and have sought and obtained rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program. All states have conducted competitive bidding for infant formula contracts, which require the use of specific infant formula products by the state WIC program, unless a physician requests a non contract formula for a WIC customer. States participating in the WIC program are required to engage in competitive bidding or to use other cost containment measures that yield savings equal to or greater than the savings generated by a competitive bidding system. Mead Johnson participates in this program and approximately half of its gross U.S. sales are subject to rebates under the WIC program. Pending pharmaceutical legislation in the EU, which is expected to be implemented by the member states this year, will have an impact on the procedures for authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU under both the centralized and mutual recognition procedures. In particular, the legislation contains new data protection provisions. All products (regardless of whether they have been approved under the centralized or the mutual recognition procedures) will be subject to an 8+2+1 regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that product with the health authorities. However, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either ten or eleven years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the innovator. The possible one year extension is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing treatments. There is a transitional provision for these new data protection requirements, and it is expected that these provisions will apply as new marketing authorization applications are submitted under the new legislation. The merger of two separate Japanese pharmaceutical regulatory offices may lead to gains in efficiency and timeliness of drug registration in Japan. However, the pricing environment for pharmaceuticals in Japan remains challenging due to reference pricing and biennial government mandated price reductions. Environmental Regulation The Companys facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls and permits are required for many of the Companys operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities. A corporate environment, health and safety group monitors operations around the world, providing the Company with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of Company standards for compliance. The Company also incurs operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. The Company expended approximately $60 million, $55 million and $27 million on capital environmental projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental requirements in 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively, and expects to spend approximately $50 million in 2005. Although the Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for its operations, the Company nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or criminal fines or penalties, clean up costs, or third party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws. Many of the Companys current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and, over time, the Company and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes that are considered hazardous under environmental laws. As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of these facilities is or may be contaminated, and the Company may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination. The Company is also potentially responsible for environmental conditions at a number of waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties. Currently, the Company is involved in investigation or remediation activities at approximately 50 sites, and has been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) at approximately 25 of these sites. 29 Table of Contents CERCLA and similar state statutes may impose liability for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites on any party, regardless of fault or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. Generally, where there are multiple potentially responsible parties, liability has been apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties. Based on the Companys current estimates of cleanup costs and its expected share of financial responsibility, the Company does not expect its expenditures in connection with CERCLA or other remediation matters to be material. Expenditures could rise in the future if substantial unknown contamination is discovered at one of the Companys current or former facilities, applicable standards become more stringent, or if other PRPs fail to participate in cost sharing at any site at which the Company has financial responsibility. For additional information about these matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Employees The Company employed approximately 43,000 people at December 31, 2004. Foreign Operations The Company has significant operations outside the United States. They are conducted both through the Companys subsidiaries and through distributors, and involve all three of the same business segments as the Companys U.S. operations Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Healthcare. Revenues from operations outside the United States of $8.8 billion accounted for 45% of the Companys total revenues in 2004. In 2004, revenues exceeded $500 million in each of France, Japan, Germany, Spain, Italy, Canada, and the U.K. No single country outside the United States contributed more than 10% of the Companys total revenues. For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic in 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY About the Company Bristol Myers Squibb is a worldwide pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life. The Company is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare related products. The Company employs approximately 43,000 people. In 2004, the Company reported annual global sales from continuing operations of $19.4 billion. Sales increased 4% from the prior year level due to the favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. U.S. sales remained constant at $10.6 billion, as increased sales of key brands and newer products were offset by exclusivity losses on older brands, while international sales increased 10%, to $8.8 billion including an 8% favorable foreign exchange impact. In 2004, two product lines achieved sales of over $2.5 billion each PLAVIX* and PRAVACHOL. PLAVIX* sales grew 35%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3.3 billion, while PRAVACHOL sales decreased 7%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2.6 billion. An additional 44 product lines achieved more than $50 million each in annual sales, including 30 product lines with more than $100 million each in annual sales, of which 7 had annual sales in excess of $500 million each. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell its Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) business, a distributor of pharmaceutical products to office based oncologists. Further, in January 2005, the Company announced that it intends to divest its U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines businesses. In support of its mission to extend and enhance human life by developing the highest quality products, in 2004, the Company invested $2.5 billion in research and development, a 10% growth over 2003, and expects to increase spending on drug development in 2005 to accelerate the development of its late stage pipeline. Research and development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including milestone payments for in licensing and development programs, was $2.3 billion and as a percentage of Pharmaceutical sales was 14.8% compared to 14.2% in 2003. In August 2004, the Company announced it entered into a settlement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), concluding the SECs investigation regarding wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent Order under which the Company is currently operating. The SECs investigation arose from the Companys announcement in April 2002 that the Company experienced a substantial buildup of wholesaler inventories in its U.S. pharmaceuticals business over several years, primarily in 2000 and 2001, and that the buildup was primarily due to sales incentives offered by the Company, as well as the Companys subsequent restatement (2002 Restatement) of its consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2002 and prior periods in March 2003. For a discussion of these matters, see Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statement and SEC Consent Order below. To help ensure the circumstances that led to the need for financial restatement do not recur, the Company has taken steps to enhance the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, including internal control over financial reporting. After completing the 2002 Restatement, the Company continued to identify and implement actions to improve the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. These actions contributed significantly to the Company identifying additional errors relating to prior periods not reflected in the 2002 Restatement and accordingly, the Company restated its consolidated financial statements in 2004 to correct these errors for the years 2001 and 2002. The Company continues to strengthen disclosure controls and procedures surrounding internal controls over financial reporting, specifically with respect to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. These actions include the establishment of policies and procedures to enhance compliance and focus on risk management. Business Environment The pharmaceutical industry in which the Company conducts its business is highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Sales of the Companys products can be affected significantly by many competitive factors, including product efficacy, safety, price and cost effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, quality control and quality assurance of its manufacturing, operating and research and development of new products. To successfully compete for business in the healthcare industry, the Company must not only demonstrate that its products offer medical benefits, but also cost advantages. Currently, most of the new products introduced by the Company must compete with other products in the same therapeutic category already on the market. The Company manufactures branded products, which are subject to higher prices than generic products. Generic competition is one of the Companys biggest challenges globally. 37 Table of Contents In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative products commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss of a product, the Company can lose a major portion of that products sales in a short period of time. For further discussion on product exclusivity, see Item 1. BusinessIntellectual Property and Product Exclusivity. Both in the U.S. and internationally, the healthcare industry is subject to various government imposed regulations which authorize prices or price controls which could have an impact on the Companys sales. In the U.S., Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. For example, in December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (MMA) was enacted to provide outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the United States. The Company cannot predict the potential impact that this legislation will have on its business; however it could have a negative impact on the Companys U.S. pharmaceutical business as greater federal involvement and budget constraints may increase the likelihood of pricing pressures or controls in the future. In many markets outside the United States, the Company operates in environments of government mandated, cost containment programs. Most European countries, except the United Kingdom and Germany, do not provide market pricing for new medicines. Pricing freedom is limited in the United Kingdom by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets. The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that surrounds the healthcare industry. MCOs seek to reduce healthcare expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into long term contracts to negotiate discounts with various pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important part of the Companys strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in an MCO formulary and the Company has generally been successful in having its major products included. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. Although the Company does have the capacity to manufacture biologics for clinical trials and commercial launch, its current capacity to manufacture larger commercial volumes of these products is limited. The Company has maintained a competitive position in the market and strives to uphold this position, which is dependent on its success in discovering and developing innovative, cost effective products that serve unmet medical needs. Strategy The Company is implementing a new strategy to discover and develop innovative, cost effective medicines that address significant unmet medical needs in ten critical disease areas. These areas are: Affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimers/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, human immunodeficiency virus/auto immune immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS), obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. The Company continuously strives to create better treatments for patients by building a high quality drug discovery and development pipeline. Since 2003, the Company has undergone a transition in its pharmaceutical product portfolio as older product lines, including the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise, MONOPRIL, TAXOL&reg; and PARAPLATIN, have experienced exclusivity loss. With the successful launches of newer products including ABILIFY* for the treatment of psychiatric disorders, REYATAZ for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and ERBITUX* for cancer, the portfolio is being refocused on growth brands which fall within the ten critical disease areas targeting specialists and high value primary care physicians. Sales of products within the ten disease areas have been increasing steadily, and are expected to comprise about half of pharmaceutical product sales by the end of 2005. The Company is making significant investments behind its new product launches, and re deploying marketing and promotional spending from older products to its newer products. In 2004, the Company submitted two New Drug Applications (NDAs) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for regulatory approval, including entecavir for hepatitis B and muraglitazar for type 2 diabetes. A rolling Biologics License Application (BLA) for abatacept for the potential treatment of rheumatoid arthritis is also expected to be completed in early 2005. The successful launch of these investigational compounds will further enhance the Companys strategy to transition its product portfolio to cover all of the ten disease areas discussed above. While internal growth is vital to the Companys future success, the Company is continually evaluating and pursuing external possibilities through alliances and other collaborative agreements. The Company has a notable record of executing successful 38 Table of Contents licensing arrangements to supplement its own pipeline, and many of these arrangements have led to fruitful codevelopment, copromotion and comarketing agreements. The Company expects to continue to complement its pipeline in 2005 with additional licensed products. Another component of the Companys strategy includes entry into the biologics business, which requires increased investments in manufacturing facilities and third party manufacturing arrangements to meet future commercial demand expected to be generated from new product launches. In addition, the Company continues to maintain collaborations with major biotechnology and research institutions to enhance the life cycle of the Companys product portfolio beyond initial approval/commercialization, such as offering combination therapy and product extensions. Another major aspect of the Companys strategy relates to how it does business, specifically in marketing and sales approaches. Specialists are playing an even greater role in decisions related to patient treatment and care, particularly in the ten critical disease areas where the Company is focusing its efforts. For this reason, the Company is recasting its business model to focus on specialists as well as with those primary care physicians who are involved in treating patients in these select disease areas. In order to achieve its strategic objectives, the Company also plans to moderate selling, general and administrative spending for the next several years, through the customer model noted above, as well as the elimination of organizational inefficiencies. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of the Companys results of continuing operations excludes the results related to the OTN business, which have been segregated from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Discontinued Operations below. % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) Net Sales $ 19,380 $ 18,653 $ 16,208 4 % 15 % Earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income tax $ 4,418 $ 4,680 $ 2,748 (6 )% 70 % % of net sales 22.8 % 25.1 % 17.0 % Provision on income taxes $ 1,519 $ 1,210 $ 386 26 % * * Effective tax rate 34.4 % 25.9 % 14.0 % Earnings from continuing operations $ 2,378 $ 3,097 $ 2,059 (23 )% 50 % % of net sales 12.3 % 16.6 % 12.7 % ** Change is in excess of 200% Net Sales Net sales from continuing operations for 2004 increased 4% to $19.4 billion due to the favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. U.S. net sales in 2004 remained constant at $10.6 billion compared to 2003, with growth in prescription demand for key brands including PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and SUSTIVA, and new product introductions including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and ERBITUX*, offset by lower sales of other products as a result of exclusivity losses for MONOPRIL, PARAPLATIN and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise. U.S. net sales increased 13% in 2003 from $9.4 billion in 2002 while international net sales increased 18% to $8.0 billion in 2003 from $6.8 billion in 2002, or 8% excluding favorable foreign exchange. International net sales increased 10% to $8.8 billion in 2004, or 2% excluding favorable foreign exchange. This 2% growth in sales was primarily attributable to increased sales of PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and the launch of REYATAZ and ABILIFY* in Europe, offset by a decline in PRAVACHOL. In 2003, net sales from continuing operations increased 15% to $18.7 billion, including a 4% favorable impact from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The composition of the net increase in sales is as follows: 2004 2003 Volume 9 % Selling prices, net 2 % Foreign exchange 4 % 4 % Increase in sales 4 % 15 % 39 Table of Contents In general, the Companys business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceuticals prescriber demand, reference is made to the table within Business Segments under the Pharmaceuticals section below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of the Companys primary care pharmaceutical products. The Company operates in three reportable segments Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Healthcare. In 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell OTN, which was previously presented as a separate segment. As such, the results of operations for OTN are presented as part of the Companys results from discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Accordingly, OTN results of operations in prior periods have been reclassified to discontinued operations to conform with current year presentations. The percent of the Companys sales by segment were as follows: Net Sales % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) Pharmaceuticals $ 15,482 $ 14,925 $ 12,814 4 % 16 % % of net sales 80 % 80 % 79 % Nutritionals 2,001 2,023 1,821 (1 )% 11 % % of net sales 10 % 11 % 11 % Other Healthcare 1,897 1,705 1,573 11 % 8 % % of net sales 10 % 9 % 10 % Total $ 19,380 $ 18,653 $ 16,208 4 % 15 % The Company recognizes revenue for sales when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which generally occurs on the date of shipment. When substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership do not transfer, the Company uses a consignment model to recognize the revenue. Under this model, the Company does not recognize revenue upon shipment of product. Rather, upon shipment of product the Company invoices the wholesaler, records deferred revenue at gross invoice sales price and classifies the inventory held by the wholesalers as consignment inventory at the Companys cost of such inventory. The Company recognizes revenue (net of the gross to net sales adjustments discussed below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments) when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, which is not later than when such inventory is sold through to the wholesalers customers, on a first in, first out (FIFO) basis. The Companys aggregate cost of pharmaceutical products that were accounted for using the consignment model (and accordingly, were reflected as consignment inventory on the Companys consolidated balance sheet) were not significant at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The deferred revenue related to the inventory of pharmaceutical products accounted for using the consignment model was fully worked down by December 31, 2004. Deferred revenue recorded at gross invoice sales price was approximately $12 million at December 31, 2003. Approximately $10 million, $321 million and $1,397 million of deferred revenue was recognized in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The corresponding effect on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was an increase of $8 million, $237 million and $1,095 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 40 Table of Contents The Company recognizes revenue on a gross sales basis and deducts various sales adjustments to arrive at net sales as reported on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. These adjustments are referred to as gross to net sales adjustments and are further described in Critical Accounting Policies below. The following table summarizes the Companys gross to net sales adjustments for each significant category: For the Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in millions) Gross Sales $ 23,896 $ 22,992 $ 20,117 Gross to Net Sales Adjustments Prime Vendor Charge Backs (1,319 ) (1,228 ) (1,028 ) Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Rebates (846 ) (854 ) (993 ) Managed Health Care Rebates and Other Contract Discounts (660 ) (710 ) (503 ) Medicaid Rebates (673 ) (523 ) (490 ) Cash Discounts (311 ) (319 ) (281 ) Sales Returns (276 ) (348 ) (345 ) Other Adjustments (431 ) (357 ) (269 ) Total Gross to Net Sales Adjustments (4,516 ) (4,339 ) (3,909 ) Net Sales $ 19,380 $ 18,653 $ 16,208 In 2004, the increase from 2003 for prime vendor charge backs and Medicaid rebates were primarily due to a shift in sales to products with higher discounts in prime vendor and Medicaid programs while the decrease in sales returns were primarily attributable to higher sales returns in 2003 resulting from discontinued products and product conversions. The overall increase in gross to net sales adjustments in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to sales growth and increases in managed care rebates principally due to a shift in sales to products with higher discounts, partially offset by a decrease in WIC rebates due to a decline in state WIC contracts. The following table sets forth the activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross to net sales adjustments: PrimeVendorCharge Backs Women,Infants andChildren(WIC)Rebates ManagedHealthcareRebates andOtherContractDiscounts MedicaidRebates CashDiscounts SalesReturns OtherAdjustments Total (dollars in millions) Balance at December 31, 2002 $ 134 $ 282 $ 230 $ 220 $ 16 $ 165 $ 87 $ 1,134 Provision related to sales made in current period 1,228 849 710 522 319 335 360 4,323 Provision related to sales made in prior periods 5 1 13 (3 ) 16 Returns and payments (1,261 ) (928 ) (692 ) (510 ) (305 ) (246 ) (322 ) (4,264 ) Impact of foreign currency translation 1 1 2 4 Balance at December 31, 2003 101 208 249 233 30 268 124 1,213 Provision related to sales made in current period 1,314 843 646 618 311 270 463 4,465 Provision related to sales made in prior periods 5 3 14 55 6 (32 ) 51 Returns and payments (1,314 ) (820 ) (711 ) (534 ) (308 ) (316 ) (385 ) (4,388 ) Impact of foreign currency translation 1 6 7 Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 106 $ 234 $ 198 $ 372 $ 33 $ 229 $ 176 $ 1,348 In 2004, the Company recorded charges of $55 million for Medicaid rebates related to sales made in prior periods. These charges include $34 million for rebate claims from prior years by certain states, primarily in relation to Medicaid utilization of oncology products not previously reported to the Company, and other revisions resulting from the availability of additional information. In addition, the Company recorded $32 million for other adjustments as a result of lower than expected rebates to foreign governments. No other significant revisions were made to the estimates for gross to net sales adjustments in 2004 and 2003. 41 Table of Contents Pharmaceuticals The composition of the net increase in pharmaceutical sales is as follows: Analysis of % Change TotalChange Volume Price ForeignExchange 2004 vs. 2003 4 % 1 % (1 )% 4 % 2003 vs. 2002 16 % 9 % 2 % 5 % In 2004, worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 4% to $15,482 million due to favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales in 2004 remained constant at $8,446 million compared to $8,431 million in 2003. Domestic sales were negatively affected by increased competition for PRAVACHOL, and exclusivity losses of PARAPLATIN and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise, offset by increased sales of PLAVIX* and newer products, including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and ERBITUX*. International sales in 2004 increased 8% to $7,036 million, or a decrease of 1% excluding favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to generic competition for PRAVACHOL and TAXOL&reg;, partially offset by the launches of ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and continued growth in PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*. In 2003, worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 16% to $14,925 million, or 11% excluding favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales in 2003 increased 16% to $8,431 million primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX*, PRAVACHOL, ABILIFY*, GLUCOVANCE* and PARAPLATIN and partly due to the impact on 2002 sales from the workdown of non consignment wholesaler inventory, and the launch of REYATAZ in July 2003, partially offset by decreased sales of GLUCOPHAGE* IR and TAXOL&reg; primarily due to generic competition. International sales in 2003 increased 17% to $6,494 million, including an 11% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of PRAVACHOL, TAXOL&reg;, PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and Analgesic products in Europe partially offset by price declines principally in Germany and Italy. Key pharmaceutical products and their sales, representing 79%, 78% and 74% of total pharmaceutical sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are as follows: % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) Cardiovascular PLAVIX* $ 3,327 $ 2,467 $ 1,890 35 % 31 % PRAVACHOL 2,635 2,827 2,266 (7 )% 25 % AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 930 757 586 23 % 29 % MONOPRIL 274 470 426 (42 )% 10 % COUMADIN 255 303 300 (16 )% 1 % Virology SUSTIVA 621 544 455 14 % 20 % REYATAZ 414 88 * * VIDEX/VIDEX EC 274 267 262 3 % 2 % ZERIT 272 354 443 (23 )% (20 )% Infectious Diseases CEFZIL 270 327 287 (17 )% 14 % TEQUIN 169 208 184 (19 )% 13 % Oncology TAXOL&reg; 991 934 857 6 % 9 % PARAPLATIN 673 905 727 (26 )% 24 % ERBITUX* 261 Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders ABILIFY* (total revenue) 593 283 25 110 % * * Metabolics GLUCOVANCE* 169 424 246 (60 )% 72 % GLUCOPHAGE* IR 68 118 220 (42 )% (46 )% GLUCOPHAGE* XR 67 395 297 (83 )% 33 % ** Change is in excess of 200% Sales of PLAVIX*, a platelet aggregation inhibitor sold by the Company primarily in the U.S., increased 35%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3,327 million in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to strong prescription growth of 24% in the U.S. market. Sales in 2003 were $2,467 million, an increase of 31%, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $1,890 million in 2002, primarily due to strong prescription growth of 29% in the U.S. PLAVIX* is a cardiovascular product launched from the alliance between the Company and Sanofi Aventis (Sanofi). Market exclusivity for PLAVIX* is expected to expire in 2011 in the U.S. and 2013 in the EU. Statements on exclusivity are subject to any adverse determination that may occur with respect to the PLAVIX* patent litigation. For additional information on the PLAVIX* patent litigation, see Item 1. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. 42 Table of Contents Sales of the PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co A reductase inhibitor, decreased 7%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2,635 million in 2004. Domestic sales decreased 12% to $1,420 million in 2004, as total U.S. prescription demand decreased 10%. International sales decreased 1%, including a 10% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $1,215 million due to exclusivity loss in select European markets, including Germany and the UK. Sales for PRAVACHOL increased 25% to $2,827 million in 2003 from $2,266 million in 2002 primarily due to wholesaler workdown of inventory in the U.S. in 2002 and continued growth in Europe, particularly in France, the UK and Italy. Market exclusivity protection for PRAVACHOL is expected to expire in April 2006 in the U.S. Market exclusivity in the EU expired in 2004, with the exception of France and Sweden, for which expiration will occur in August and March 2006, respectively, and in Italy, for which expiration will occur in January 2008. Sales of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension, increased 23%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $930 million in 2004 driven by increased sales in Europe and strong U.S. prescription growth of approximately 15%. Sales increased 29%, including a 6% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $757 million in 2003 from $586 million in 2002, primarily due to strong U.S. prescription growth and price increases. AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* are cardiovascular products launched from the alliance between the Company and Sanofi. Market exclusivity for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (known in the EU as APROVEL/KARVEA) is expected to expire in 2011 in the U.S. and 2012 in countries in the EU; AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* is not currently marketed in Japan. Sales of MONOPRIL, a second generation angiotesin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for the treatment of hypertension, decreased 42%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $274 million due to the impact of market exclusivity loss. Sales in 2003 were $470 million, an increase of 10%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $426 million in 2002, resulting from the introduction of a branded generic product and a new government contract. Market exclusivity protection for MONOPRIL expired in 2003 in the U.S. and has expired or is expected to expire between 2001 and 2008 in countries in the EU. MONOPRIL is not currently marketed in Japan. Sales of COUMADIN, an oral anti coagulant used predominately in patients with atrial fibrillation or deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism, decreased 16% to $255 million in 2004 compared to 2003 sales, due to increased generic competition. Sales in 2003 increased 1% to $303 million from $300 million in 2002. Market exclusivity for COUMADIN expired in the U.S. in 1997. Sales of SUSTIVA, a non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, increased 14%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $621 million in 2004 from the prior year primarily due to increased demand in 2004 and higher prices. U.S. sales increased 9% to $364 million in 2004, while total U.S. prescription growth increased by 4% in 2004. International sales of SUSTIVA increased 22%, including a 13% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $257 million in 2004 driven by increased sales in Spain, the UK, France and Italy. In 2003, SUSTIVA sales increased 20% to $544 million from $455 million in 2002, primarily due to the workdown of U.S. wholesaler inventory in the third quarter of 2002. Market exclusivity protection for SUSTIVA is expected to expire in 2013 in the U.S. and in countries in the EU; the Company does not (but others do) market SUSTIVA in Japan. Sales of REYATAZ, a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which was launched in the U.S. in the third quarter of 2003 and in Europe in the second quarter of 2004, were $414 million compared with $88 million in 2003. REYATAZ has achieved a weekly new prescription share of the U.S. protease inhibitors market of approximately 28%. Market exclusivity for REYATAZ is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., in countries in the EU and Japan. Sales of VIDEX/VIDEX EC, an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, increased 3%, or decreased 3% excluding a 6% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $274 million in 2004. VIDEX/VIDEX EC sales increased 2% to $267 million in 2003 from $262 million in 2002, due to increased sales in Europe, partially offset by sales declines in the U.S. The Company has a licensing arrangement with the U.S. Government for VIDEX/VIDEX EC, which by its terms became non exclusive in 2001. The U.S. Governments method of use patent expires in 2007 in the U.S. (which includes an earned pediatric extension) and in Japan, and between 2006 and 2009 in countries in the EU. The license to the Company is non exclusive, which has allowed another company to obtain a license from the U.S. Government and receive approval for marketing. With respect to VIDEX/VIDEX EC, the Company has patents covering the reduced mass formulation of VIDEX/VIDEX EC that expire in 2012 in the U.S., the EU and Japan. However, these patents apply only to the type of reduced mass formulation specified in the patent. Other reduced mass formulations may exist. There is currently no issued patent covering the VIDEX EC formulation. 43 Table of Contents Sales of ZERIT an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, decreased 23%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $272 million in 2004, primarily as a result of continued decrease in demand due to potential adverse side effects. ZERIT sales decreased 20%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $354 million in 2003 from $443 million in 2002, primarily as a result of decreased demand due to potential adverse side effects. Market exclusivity protection for ZERIT is expected to expire in 2008 in the U.S., between 2007 and 2011 in countries in the EU and 2008 in Japan. Sales of CEFZIL, an antibiotic for the treatment of mild to moderately severe bacterial infections, decreased 17%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $270 million in 2004, primarily due to decreased domestic demand, partially offset by higher international sales. CEFZIL sales increased 14% to $327 million in 2003 from $287 million in 2002. Market exclusivity is expected to expire in 2005 in the U.S., between 2007 and 2009 in the EU and expired in 2004 in Japan. TEQUIN, an antibiotic used for the treatment of respiratory tract infections, had sales of $169 million in 2004, a decrease of 19% compared 2003 sales. In 2003, sales increased 13% to $208 million from $184 million in 2002. TEQUIN is a seasonal product with sales increasing during the flu season. The sales fluctuations from 2002 to 2004 were due to a strong flu season in 2003 and a weak flu season in 2004. The basic U.S. patent expires in 2007; however, it is expected that the patent will be eligible for a statutory patent term extension until 2009. Sales of TAXOL&reg;, the Companys leading anti cancer agent, were $991 million in 2004 compared to $934 million in 2003. Sales of TAXOL&reg;, which are almost exclusively international, increased 6%, or decreased 3% excluding favorable foreign exchange, primarily as a result of generic competition in Europe. Generic competition for TAXOL&reg; in a majority of the major European markets began in the second quarter of 2004 and increased in the second half of 2004. In 2003, TAXOL&reg; sales increased 9% or decreased 3% excluding favorable foreign exchange to $934 million from $857 million in 2002, primarily due to generic competition in the U.S., partially offset by strong sales in Japan and France. Market exclusivity protection for TAXOL&reg; expired in 2002 in the U.S., in 2003 in the EU and is expected to expire between 2003 and 2013 in Japan. Sales of PARAPLATIN, an anticancer agent, decreased 26%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $673 million due to generic competition in the U.S. which began in mid 2004 and increased with the entry of multiple generic competitors in the fourth quarter. Domestic sales of PARAPLATIN decreased 30% to $537 million. In 2003, PARAPLATIN sales increased 24%, with no significant foreign exchange impact, to $905 million from $727 million in 2002, primarily due to the introduction of a new formulation of PARAPLATIN in 2003 and price increases. Market exclusivity protection for PARAPLATIN expired in October 2004 in the U.S., in 2000 in the EU and in 1998 in Japan. ERBITUX*, an injection used in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan based chemotherapy and as a single agent in the treatment of patients with EGFR expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant to irinotecan based chemotherapy, was approved by the FDA in February 2004. Sales of ERBITUX*, which is sold almost exclusively in the U.S., were $261 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. A patent relating to combination therapy with ERBITUX* expires in 2017. The Companys right to market ERBITUX* in North America and Japan expires in September 2018. The Company does not, but others do, market ERBITUX* in countries in the EU. Total revenue for ABILIFY*, which is primarily domestic alliance revenue for the Companys 65% share of net sales in copromotion countries with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), was $593 million in 2004, compared with $283 million and $25 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, due to continued growth in prescription demand since its launch. The schizophrenia agent was introduced in the United States in November 2002 and by December 2004, had achieved more than a 10% weekly new prescription share of the U.S. antipsychotic market. The European Commission granted marketing authorization for ABILIFY* in June 2004 and total revenue has reached $26 million since public sales commenced in June 2004. In September 2004, the FDA approved ABILIFY* for the treatment of acute bipolar mania in the U.S. Market exclusivity protection for ABILIFY* is expected to expire in 2009 in the U.S. (and may be extended until 2014 if a pending patent term extension is granted). The Company also has the right to copromote ABILIFY* in several European countries (the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Spain) and to act as exclusive distributor for the product in the rest of the European Union (EU). Market exclusivity protection for ABILIFY* is expected to expire in 2009 for the EU (and may be extended until 2014 if pending supplemental protection certificates are granted). The Companys right to market ABILIFY* expires in November 2012 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and, for the countries in the EU where the Company has the exclusive right to market ABILIFY* in June 2014. For additional information on revenue recognition of ABILIFY*, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Investments. GLUCOPHAGE* franchise sales decreased 65% to $336 million in 2004, compared to a 22% increase to $948 million in 2003 from $778 million in 2002. The decrease in sales in 2004 primarily resulted from increased generic competition. 44 Table of Contents GLUCOPHAGE* IR, an oral medication for treatment of non insulin dependent (type 2) diabetes, experienced a sales decrease of 42% to $68 million. Sales decreased 46% to $118 million in 2003 from $220 million in 2002. GLUCOVANCE*, an oral combination drug, and GLUCOPHAGE* XR (Extended Release) tablets had sales in 2004 of $169 million and $67 million, respectively, compared with sales in 2003 of $424 million and $395 million, respectively, and sales in 2002 of $246 million and $297 million, respectively. Market exclusivity protection expired in March 2000 for GLUCOPHAGE* IR, in October 2003 for GLUCOPHAGE* XR, and in January 2004 for GLUCOVANCE*. The Company does not (but others do) market these products in the EU and Japan. In most instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated above is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval. The Company assesses the market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case by case basis. The length of market exclusivity for any of the Companys products is difficult to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and other factors. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that the Company currently anticipates. For further discussion of market exclusivity protection, including a chart showing net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is expected to occur in the U.S., the EU and Japan, see Item 1. Business Products and Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity. The following table sets forth a comparison of reported net sales changes and the estimated total U.S. prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of the Companys U.S. pharmaceutical prescription products. The estimated prescription growth amounts are based on third party data provided by IMS Health, a supplier of market research to the pharmaceutical industry. A significant portion of the Companys domestic pharmaceutical sales is made to wholesalers. Where changes in reported net sales differ from prescription growth, this change in net sales may not reflect underlying prescriber demand. 2004 2003 2002 % Changein U.S.Net Sales(a) % Change inU.S. TotalPrescriptions(b) % Changein U.S.Net Sales(a) % Change inU.S. TotalPrescriptions(b) % Changein U.S.Net Sales(a) % Changein U.S. TotalPrescriptions(b) PLAVIX* 36 24 27 29 63 35 PRAVACHOL (12 ) (10 ) 22 2 1 5 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 19 15 24 15 16 13 MONOPRIL (85 ) (77 ) 16 (16 ) 2 (8 ) COUMADIN (18 ) (17 ) 1 (15 ) ** (16 ) SUSTIVA 9 4 13 17 ** 16 VIDEX/VIDEX EC (3 ) (4 ) (11 ) 3 15 13 ZERIT (32 ) (29 ) (29 ) (25 ) (13 ) (11 ) CEFZIL (31 ) (30 ) 14 (4 ) (7 ) (14 ) GLUCOVANCE* (61 ) (51 ) 72 3 (9 ) 48 GLUCOPHAGE*XR (83 ) (78 ) 33 (3 ) 29 81 ** In excess of 200%. (a) Reflects change in net sales in dollar terms, including change in average selling prices and wholesaler buying patterns. (b) Reflects change in total prescriptions in unit terms, based on third party data. The following table sets forth for each of the Companys key pharmaceutical products sold by the Companys U.S. Pharmaceuticals business, the amount of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals businesss net sales of the applicable product for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel as of December 31, 2004. Net Sales (in millions) Months on Hand PLAVIX* $ 2,833 0.8 PRAVACHOL 1,420 0.8 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 562 0.7 ABILIFY 554 0.7 PARAPLATIN 537 1.2 SUSTIVA 364 0.6 GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise 315 0.9 REYATAZ 305 0.6 COUMADIN 228 0.8 TEQUIN 124 0.6 ZERIT 119 0.7 VIDEX/VIDEX EC 106 0.6 MONOPRIL 34 0.8 45 Table of Contents The Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out movement of the product over a period of four weeks calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Companys estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesale list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. PARAPLATIN lost exclusivity in October 2004 and demand has since decreased significantly, resulting in the estimated months on hand of greater than one month. The value of PARAPLATIN inventory over one month on hand at December 31, 2004 was approximately $4 million. The Company plans to continue to monitor PARAPLATIN sales with the intention of working down wholesaler inventories to less than one month on hand. The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. wholesalers which account for nearly 100% of total gross sales of U.S. Pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, these wholesalers provide the Company with information with respect to inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out movement of products. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their record keeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals. The Company determines the amount of out movement of a product over a period of one month by using the most recent prior four weeks of out movement of a product as provided by these wholesalers. The Company also determines months on hand estimates by using such factors as historical sales made to those wholesalers and from third party market research data related to prescription trends and patient demand. Nutritionals The composition of the net increase in nutritional sales is as follows: Analysis of % Change Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange 2004 vs. 2003 (1 )% (7 )% 6 % 2003 vs. 2002 11 % 7 % 5 % (1 )% Key Nutritional product lines and their sales, representing 94%, 84% and 85% of total Nutritional sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are as follows: % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) Infant Formulas $ 1,405 $ 1,284 $ 1,172 9 % 10 % Toddler/Childrens Nutritionals 468 421 383 11 % 10 % Worldwide Nutritional sales decreased 1% to $2,001 million in 2004 from 2003. Excluding the impact of the Adult Nutritional business that was divested during the first quarter of 2004, worldwide sales increased 9% to $1,973 million from $1,817 million in 2003. International sales, excluding the impact of the Adult Nutritional business, increased 15%, primarily due to increased sales of infant formula and childrens nutritional products. The increase in international sales is primarily due to a 15% increase in ENFAGROW, a toddler and childrens nutritional product, and a 15% increase in ENFAMIL, the Companys largest selling infant formula, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact. Domestic sales, excluding the impact of the Adult Nutritional business, increased 3% to $945 million in 2004 from $920 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL. In 2003, Nutritionals sales were $2,023 million, an increase of 11%, including a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, over 2002. International sales increased 9%, including a 2% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $938 million from $862 million in 2002 while domestic sales increased 13% to $1,085 million from $959 million in 2002. Worldwide infant formula sales increased 46 Table of Contents 10% to $1,284 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL. International sales of ENFAMIL increased 5% to $239 million in 2003 from $228 million in 2002 and domestic sales of ENFAMIL increased 10% to $569 million in 2003 from $518 million in 2002. Worldwide toddler and childrens nutritionals sales increased 10%, including a 5% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $421 million in 2003 from $383 million in 2002, as a result of a 29% increase in sales of ENFAGROW, primarily throughout the Pacific region, to $156 million in 2003. Other Healthcare The Other Healthcare segment includes ConvaTec, the Medical Imaging business and Consumer Medicines in the United States and Japan. The composition of the net increase in other healthcare sales is as follows: Analysis of % Change Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange 2004 vs. 2003 11 % 6 % 1 % 4 % 2003 vs. 2002 8 % 2 % 1 % 5 % Other Healthcare sales by business and their key products for the years ended December 31, were as follows: % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) ConvaTec $ 954 $ 843 $ 734 13 % 15 % Ostomy 551 512 453 8 % 13 % Wound Therapeutics 391 319 273 23 % 17 % Medical Imaging 589 508 462 16 % 10 % CARDIOLITE 406 324 299 25 % 8 % Consumer Medicines 354 354 377 (6 )% In 2004, the increase in ConvaTec sales was due to a 6% increase in volume, an 8% increase due to foreign exchange partially offset by a 1% decrease from changes in selling prices. The increase over 2003 was a result of increased worldwide sales of wound therapeutics products, which increased 23%, including an 8% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $391 million. Ostomy sales were flat, excluding an 8% increase due to foreign exchange impact. In 2003, the increase in ConvaTec sales over 2002 was due to a 13% increase in worldwide sales of ostomy products to $512 million and strong growth of worldwide wound therapeutics products, which increased 17% to $319 million. Foreign exchange contributed 9% to the sales increase in 2003. In 2004, the increase in Medical Imaging sales was due to a 9% increase in volume, a 6% increase from changes in selling prices and a 1% increase due to foreign exchange. The increase in Medical Imaging sales in 2004 and 2003 were primarily driven by increased sales of CARDIOLITE. This increase was partially due to a change in the timing of revenue recognition as a result of new distribution agreements entered into in January 2004. Consumer Medicines sales remained flat at $354 million in 2004 compared to 2003 and declined from $377 million in 2002. In 2004, the sales increase in the U.S., primarily driven by higher sales of EXCEDRIN, was offset by decreased sales in Japan, primarily due to lower sales of BUFFERIN and other over the counter medicines. The sales decline in 2003 was in part due to distributors reducing U.S. inventory levels to more desirable levels. 47 Table of Contents Geographic Areas At least some of the Companys products are available in most countries in the world. The largest markets are in the United States, France, Japan, Spain, Germany, Italy, Canada, and the UK The Companys sales by geographic areas were as follows: % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) United States $ 10,613 $ 10,656 $ 9,450 13 % % of Total 55 % 57 % 58 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,470 4,985 4,041 10 % 23 % % of Total 28 % 27 % 25 % Other Western Hemisphere 1,425 1,333 1,215 7 % 10 % % of Total 7 % 7 % 8 % Pacific 1,872 1,679 1,502 11 % 12 % % of Total 10 % 9 % 9 % Total $ 19,380 $ 18,653 $ 16,208 4 % 15 % Sales in the United States remained constant in 2004, with growth in prescription demand for key brands including PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, and SUSTIVA, and newer products including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ, and ERBITUX*, offset by lower sales of other products as a result of exclusivity losses for MONOPRIL, PARAPLATIN, and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise. In 2003, sales in the United States increased 13%, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX*, PRAVACHOL, ABILIFY*, GLUCOVANCE* and PARAPLATIN. These sales increases were partially offset by the continued impact of generic competition in the United States on GLUCOPHAGE* IR and TAXOL&reg; and the result of loss of exclusivity and a label change indicating a potential serious side effect of SERZONE. Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa increased 10%, or decreased 1% excluding the impact from foreign exchange, as a result of sales decline of PRAVACHOL due to exclusivity loss in select markets, including Germany and the UK, and TAXOL&reg;, where generic competition in a majority of the major European markets began in the second quarter of 2004. This decrease in sales was mostly offset by increased sales of PLAVIX* in Germany and Spain, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Italy and Spain, and SUSTIVA in the majority of the major markets. In 2003, sales increased 23%, including a 16% increase from foreign exchange, as a result of sales growth of PRAVACHOL in France, TAXOL&reg; in France, Germany, Spain and Italy, analgesics in France, PLAVIX* in Germany and Spain, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Italy and SUSTIVA in Spain. Sales in the Other Western Hemisphere countries increased 7%, including a 2% increase from foreign exchange, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Canada. In 2003, sales increased 10%, including a 5% decrease from foreign exchange, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX* in Canada. Pacific region sales increased 11%, including a 5% increase from foreign exchange in 2004, as a result of increased sales of TAXOL&reg; and PARAPLATIN in Japan, and PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Australia. In 2003, sales increased 12%, including a 6% increase from foreign exchange, as a result of increased sales of TAXOL&reg; in Japan and increased sales of ENFAGROW throughout the region. Expenses % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) Cost of products sold $ 5,989 $ 5,406 $ 4,691 11 % 15 % % of net sales 30.9 % 29.0 % 28.9 % Marketing, selling and administrative $ 5,016 $ 4,620 $ 4,081 9 % 13 % % of net sales 25.9 % 24.8 % 25.2 % Advertising and product promotion $ 1,411 $ 1,415 $ 1,142 24 % % of net sales 7.3 % 7.6 % 7.0 % Research and development $ 2,500 $ 2,279 $ 2,206 10 % 3 % % of net sales 12.9 % 12.2 % 13.6 % Acquired in process research and development $ 63 $ $ 169 (100 )% % of net sales 1.0 % Provision for restructuring and other items, net $ 104 $ 26 $ 14 ** 86 % % of net sales 0.5 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Litigation charges, net $ 420 $ 199 $ 659 111 % (70 )% % of net sales 2.2 % 1.1 % 4.1 % Equity in net income of affiliates $ (273 ) $ (151 ) $ (80 ) (81 )% (89 )% % of net sales (1.4 )% (0.8 )% (0.5 )% Other expense, net $ 52 $ 179 $ 229 (71 )% (22 )% % of net sales 0.3 % 1.0 % 1.4 % Total Expenses, net $ 14,962 $ 13,973 $ 13,460 7 % 4 % % of net sales 77.2 % 74.9 % 83.0 % ** Change is in excess of 200% 48 Table of Contents Cost of products sold, as a percentage of sales, increased over the last 2 years to 30.9% in 2004 compared with 29.0% in 2003 and 28.9% in 2002. The increase is primarily due to an increase in accelerated depreciation of $36 million to $100 million, a $75 million increase in product liability reserves and the unfavorable impact of U.S. Pharmaceutical sales mix due to the impact of generic competition in the U.S. for the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise and PARAPLATIN and launch of lower margin ERBITUX*, partially offset by sales growth of ABILIFY*, REYATAZ, and PLAVIX*. Cost of products sold also included $26 million of commercial litigation expense and $25 million of product liability insurance recovery. In 2003, cost of products sold included $53 million of accelerated depreciation of assets in manufacturing facilities in North America expected to be closed by the end of 2006 and a $14 million charge for asset impairment and other restructuring expenses. Cost of products sold in 2002 included a $15 million reversal of prior period reserves for inventory write offs related to cancelled actions. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 25.9% in 2004, 24.8% in 2003, and 25.2% in 2002. In 2004, marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 9% to $5,016 million from 2003, primarily due to increased sales and marketing support for newer products, including additional sales representatives supporting ABILIFY*. In addition, the increase was also related to costs associated with the compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and unfavorable foreign exchange driven by the strengthening of the euro. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 13% to $4,620 million in 2003 from $4,081 million in 2002, primarily due to increased sales support for ABILIFY* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, higher pension costs, higher charges related to system infrastructure, higher insurance premiums, and unfavorable foreign exchange impact, principally related to the Euro. Advertising and product promotion expenditures remained constant at $1.4 billion as compared to 2003, with increased investments in ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and PLAVIX*, offset by lower spending on in line and non exclusive products. In 2003, advertising and promotion expenses increased 24% to $1,415 million from $1,142 million in 2002, primarily as a result of promotional support for the ABILIFY* and REYATAZ launches and PLAVIX* in the U.S., and additional support for in line products and unfavorable foreign exchange impact in Europe. The Companys investment in research and development totaled $2,500 million in 2004, an increase of 10% over 2003 and an increase from 2003 of 3% over 2002, and as a percentage of sales were 12.9% in 2004 compared with 12.2% in 2003 and 13.6% in 2002. In 2004, the increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending on new development projects, including investments in late stage development, including muraglitazar, a dual PPAR agonist for diabetes; abatacept for the potential treatment of rheumatoid arthritis; and entecavir for hepatitis B, and investments in the area of biologics, partially offset by Mercks share of codevelopment costs related to muraglitazar. Research and development costs also included $58 million consisting primarily of upfront and milestone payments in 2004, $102 million of charges related to the upfront payments for licensing agreements in 2003 and $69 million of accelerated depreciation on research facilities in 2002. In 2004, research and development spending dedicated to pharmaceutical products increased to 14.8% of Pharmaceuticals sales compared with 14.2% in 2003 and decreased compared with 16.5% in 2002. The increase reflects the Companys strategic focus on ten critical disease areas affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimers/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. The Company is focusing its research and development activities so that it can fully realize the value of its research and development pipeline. The new priorities include rebalancing drug discovery and development to increase support for the Companys full late stage development pipeline and closing unnecessary facilities. They also include devoting greater resources to ensuring successful near term product launches and increasing the Companys efforts on in licensing opportunities. In 2004, the $63 million charge for acquired in process research and development was related to the purchase of Acordis, a UK based company which is expected to strengthen the Companys leadership position in wound therapeutics. In 2002, the charges related to acquired in process research and development were $169 million, primarily related to milestone payments to ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for ERBITUX*. Of the $200 million milestone payment to ImClone, $160 million was expensed as acquired in process research and development in the first quarter of 2002. The 49 Table of Contents remaining $40 million was recorded as an additional equity investment to eliminate the income statement effect of the portion of the milestone payment for which the Company has an economic claim through its ownership interest in ImClone. Restructuring programs have been implemented to downsize, realign and streamline operations in order to increase productivity, reduce operating expenses and to rationalize the Companys manufacturing network, research facilities, and the sales and marketing organizations. Actions under the 2004 restructuring program are expected to be complete by 2006 while actions under the 2003 restructuring programs have been substantially completed, and actions under the 2002 restructuring programs were completed at December 31, 2004. As a result of these actions, the Company expects the future annual benefit to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes to be approximately $186 million, $64 million and $150 million for the 2004, 2003 and 2002 programs, respectively. For additional information on restructuring, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Restructuring and Other Items. Litigation charges, net of settlement income, were $420 million in 2004, compared to $199 million in 2003 and $659 million in 2002. The $420 million in 2004 consisted of $336 million related to private litigation and governmental investigations related to wholesaler inventory issues and accounting matters, $50 million related to the Platinol litigation settlement and $34 million related to pharmaceutical pricing and sales practices. In 2003, the Company established reserves for liabilities in the total amount of $250 million, comprised of $150 million in relation to wholesaler inventory issues and certain other accounting matters, and $100 million in relation to pharmaceutical pricing and sales and marketing practices. In addition, the Company recorded charges of $31 million for other litigation matters and recognized income of $82 million. The $82 million income consists primarily of $30 million of income for patent defense cost reimbursement, $27 million in litigation settlement income and $21 million from the settlement of anti trust litigation involving vitamin manufacturers. The 2002 charges of $659 million primarily related to BUSPAR and TAXOL&reg; settlements. For additional information on litigation, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Equity in net income of affiliates for 2004 was $273 million, compared with $151 million and $80 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Equity in net income of affiliates principally related to the Companys joint venture with Sanofi and investment in ImClone. In 2004 and 2003, the increases in equity in net income of affiliates primarily reflects higher net income in the Sanofi joint venture. For additional information on equity in net income of affiliates, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Investments. Other expenses, net of income were $52 million, $179 million and $229 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other expenses include net interest expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, income from third party contract manufacturing, royalty income, and gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment. The favorability in 2004 was primarily due to higher income from third party contract manufacturing, lower net interest expense and lower net foreign exchange losses. The decrease in expenses in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to net gains from interest rate swaps. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company recorded several items that affected the comparability of results of the periods presented herein, which are set forth in the following table. For a discussion of these items, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Investments, Note 3. Restructuring and Other Items, Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 5. Discontinued Operations. Year ended December 31, 2004 Cost ofproductssold Researchanddevelopment Acquired in processresearch anddevelopment Gain onsale ofbusiness Provision forrestructuringand otheritems, net Litigationsettlementexpense /(income) Otherexpense,net Total Litigation Matters: (dollars in millions) Private litigation and governmental investigations (a) $ $ $ $ $ $ 336 $ $ 336 Product liability 75 11 86 Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation (b) 34 34 Commercial litigation 26 26 Anti trust litigation 50 50 Product liability insurance recovery (25 ) (25 ) 76 420 11 507 Other: Gain on sale of Adult Nutritional business (320 ) (320 ) Accelerated depreciation 100 3 4 107 Downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations 1 104 105 Upfront and milestone payments 55 55 Acordis IPR&D write off 63 63 $ 177 $ 58 $ 63 $ (320 ) $ 104 $ 420 $ 15 517 Income taxes on items above (130 ) Deferred taxes in anticipation of repatriation of foreign earnings 575 Other tax adjustments 10 Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 972 (a) relates to wholesaler inventory and accounting matters consisting of $16 million of reserves recorded in the fourth quarter and $320 million disclosed by the Company in the second quarter of 2004. These amounts are incremental to the $150 million recorded last year, bringing the total reserve to $486 million. (b) incremental to the $100 million reserve recorded by the Company last year, bringing the total reserve to $134 million. 50 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2003 Cost ofproductssold Research anddevelopment Provision forrestructuringand otheritems, net Litigationsettlementexpense /(income) Total (dollars in millions) Litigation Matters: Private litigation and governmental investigations $ $ $ $ 150 $ 150 Product liability 15 15 Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation 100 100 Litigation settlement income (66 ) (66 ) 199 199 Other: Upfront payments for licensing agreements 102 102 Accelerated depreciation and asset impairment charges 64 64 Termination benefits and other exit costs 53 53 Relocation and retention 3 13 16 Change in estimates (40 ) (40 ) $ 67 $ 102 $ 26 $ 199 394 Income taxes on items above (36 ) Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 358 Year ended December 31, 2002 Cost ofproductssold Research anddevelopment Acquired in processresearch anddevelopment Provision forrestructuringand otheritems, net Litigationsettlementexpense /(income) AssetImpairment Otherexpense/(income) Total (dollars in millions) Litigation Matters: Anti Trust Litigation $ $ $ $ $ 635 $ $ $ 635 Commercial Litigation 18 18 Other Litigation 6 16 659 659 Other: Sale of Product rights (30 ) (30 ) Termination benefits and other exit costs (15 ) 69 14 68 Acquired in Process research and development 169 169 Asset Impairment charge 379 379 $ (15 ) $ 69 $ 169 $ 14 $ 659 $ 379 $ (30 ) 1,245 Income taxes on items above (472 ) Settlement of prior year tax matters (261 ) Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 512 Earnings Earnings From ContinuingOperations Before MinorityInterest and Income Taxes % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 to 2003 2003 to 2002 (dollars in millions) Pharmaceuticals $ 4,257 $ 4,369 $ 3,187 (3 )% 37 % Nutritionals 586 542 486 8 % 12 % Other Healthcare 573 408 427 40 % (4 )% Total segments 5,416 5,319 4,100 2 % 30 % Corporate/Other (998 ) (639 ) (1,352 ) (56 )% 53 % Total $ 4,418 $ 4,680 $ 2,748 (6 )% 70 % 51 Table of Contents In 2004, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes decreased 6% to $4,418 million from $4,680 million in 2003. Contributing to the decrease in 2004 were increases in costs of products sold as a result of a change in product mix, products losing exclusivity, increased investment in research and development, and income and expenses that affected the comparability of results as discussed above, partially offset by higher international sales. Net earnings from continuing operations decreased 23% in 2004 to $2,378 million from $3,097 million in 2003. In 2004, basic earnings per share from continuing operations decreased 23% to $1.23 from $1.60 in 2003, while diluted earnings per share from continuing operations decreased 24% to $1.21 from $1.59 in 2003. In 2003, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes increased 70% to $4,680 million from $2,748 million in 2002. The increase was primarily a result of increased sales and charges of $1,207 million recorded in 2002 for litigation settlements, asset impairments and write offs for in process research and development. This increase was partially offset by increased investment in advertising and promotion, and in marketing, selling and administrative expenses. Earnings from continuing operations increased 50% in 2003 to $3,097 million from $2,059 million in 2002. In 2003, basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 50% each to $1.60 and $1.59, respectively, from $1.07 and $1.06 in 2002, respectively. The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 34.4% in 2004 compared with 25.8% in 2003 and 14.0% in 2002. The higher effective tax rate in 2004 is attributable primarily to a $575 million charge for estimated deferred taxes taken in the fourth quarter in anticipation of repatriating in 2005 approximately $9 billion in special dividends from the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, an increase in estimates for contingent tax matters in 2004 compared to 2003, and a charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain charitable contribution carryforwards. This increase was partially offset by the favorable resolution of certain tax refund claims, increased foreign tax credits, and in 2003, the effect of certain litigation reserves as non deductible in 2003. The Companys estimate of the tax cost related to the dividend repatriation at December 31, 2004 was based on tax laws then in effect. The estimate may be revised as a result of additional guidance or clarifying language that may be issued by Congress and or the Department of the Treasury, or any changes in the Companys factual assumptions that may occur. The increase in the 2003 effective tax rate over the 2002 effective tax rate was primarily due to the decrease in effective tax rate benefit from operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland, the treatment of provisions for certain litigation reserves as non deductible, and an increase in estimates for contingent tax matters in 2003 compared to 2002. The Company has recorded valuation allowances for certain state net deferred tax assets, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and charitable contribution carryforwards. The Company currently believes that the state net deferred tax assets, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and charitable contribution carryforwards for which valuation allowances have been provided, more likely than not, will not be realized in the future. Pharmaceutical Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $4,257 million in 2004 decreased from $4,369 million in 2003 primarily driven by gross margin erosion due to generic competition and product mix, additional sales representatives supporting ABILIFY*, increased spending on research and development, higher non clinical grants and litigation settlement income in 2003, partially offset by higher sales. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in 2002 were $3,187 million. The increase in 2003 from 2002 was primarily due to increased sales, partially offset by increased advertising and product spending on new and existing in line products. Nutritional Earnings before minority interest and income taxes increased to $586 million in 2004 from $542 million in 2003. This increase is primarily due to increased global infant formula sales, a price increase in the infant formula line, favorable manufacturing variances and tight operating expense management. In 2003, earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Nutritionals segment increased from $486 million in 2002 as a result of increased sales of ENFAMIL. Other Healthcare Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Other Healthcare segment increased to $573 million in 2004 from $408 million in 2003, primarily due to sales growth in the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, in addition to favorable pricing and product mix. In 2003, earnings before minority interest and income taxes in this segment decreased from $427 million in 2002, primarily as a result of unfavorable product mix and inventory write offs for EXCEDRIN QUICKTABS in the Consumer Medicines business. Discontinued Operations In December 2004, the Company committed to a plan to sell OTN and entered into a definitive sale agreement with One Equity Partners LLC. OTN was formerly reported as a distinct operating segment. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2005. The sale price will be equal to $210 million, plus certain price adjustments based on OTNs excess of current assets 52 Table of Contents over current liabilities on the closing date. The sale will result in a pre tax gain of $40 to $50 million, subject to certain price adjustments and other post closing matters. The gain from the sale of OTN will be recognized on the closing date. For further discussions of OTN, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 5. Discontinued Operations. The following amounts related to the OTN business have been segregated from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented: Year ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in millions) Net sales $ 2,506 $ 2,241 $ 1,898 Earnings before income taxes 15 14 13 Net earnings from discontinued operations 10 9 8 The net earnings from discontinued operations of $40 million reflected in the 2002 statement of earnings primarily reflects a reduction of $32 million in the tax contingency reserve related to the spin off of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. in 2001. Developments In January 2005, the Company announced that it intends to divest its U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business. The Companys primary consumer medicine brands in the U.S. and Canada are EXCEDRIN, KERI, CHOICE and COMTREX. For the year ended December 31, 2004, sales of consumer medicines brands in the U.S. and Canada totaled approximately $270 million. The Companys consumer medicines businesses in Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Africa are not included in this divestiture. In December 2004, the Company provided an update on the rolling BLA for abatacept submitted under the provisions of FDAs Continuous Marketing Application, Pilot 1. Abatacept is an investigational biologic drug for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and its development program was granted Fast Track status by the FDA. Complete Non Clinical and Clinical sections of the BLA have already been submitted to the FDA and the remaining section is expected to be submitted early this year. In December 2004, the Company and Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Somerset), a joint venture between Mylan Laboratories Inc. and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., entered into an agreement for the commercialization and distribution of Somersets EMSAM&reg; (selegiline transdermal system), an investigational monoamine oxidase inhibitor administered as a transdermal patch for the acute and maintenance treatment of patients with major depressive disorder. Somerset received an Approvable letter from the FDA for EMSAM&reg; in February 2004, and if approved by the FDA, EMSAM&reg; would be the first transdermal treatment for major depressive disorder. In December 2004, the Company and Corgentech Inc. announced top line results from the first of two Phase 3 clinical trials for edifoligide (E2F Decoy). In a trial involving patients undergoing peripheral artery vein grafts, the primary and secondary endpoints failed to show a benefit in the edifoligide treated group compared to the placebo group as defined as the rate of vein graft failure over the 12 months following surgery. Edifoligide is an investigational product to prevent vein graft failure in the coronary and peripheral arteries. In December 2004, the Company and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) entered into a joint venture to develop and commercialize a fixed dose combination of the Companys SUSTIVA and Gileads TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) in the United States. If approved, the new product would be the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) treatment regimen for HIV available in a fixed dose combination taken once daily. In November 2004, the Company and Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) entered into a worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize MDX 010, a fully human antibody investigational product targeting the CTLA 4 receptor. MDX 010 was developed by Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical development for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. The collaboration agreement became effective in January 2005, at which time the Company made a cash payment of $25 million to Medarex which was expensed as research and development, and an additional $25 million equity investment in Medarex. In September 2004, the Company completed the submission of a NDA to the FDA for entecavir, an investigational antiviral agent under development for the treatment of chronic Hepatitis B. In addition, the FDA granted the Company a priority review for entecavir. The Company also submitted a marketing authorization application for entecavir to the European Medicines Evaluation Agency. 53 Table of Contents In August 2004, the FDA approved the Companys supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to include new long term virologic and clinical data from BMS Study 006 in its prescribing information related to SUSTIVA (efavirenz). The new data demonstrate the long term durability of virologic response in people living with HIV 1 who are naive to protease inhibitors, lamivudine (3TC) and non nucleoside reverse transriptase inhibitors (NNRTI) through more than three years of treatment on a combination regimen containing SUSTIVA. In July 2004, the FDA approved the Companys sNDA to include new scientific data and dosing in its package insert or labeling related to REYATAZ. With the sNDA, the REYATAZ labeling now includes data indicating that combination HIV treatments containing REYATAZ/ritonavir and Kaletra (lopinavir/ritonavir; Abbott Laboratories, Inc.) were similar for the primary efficacy outcome measurement of time averaged difference in change from baseline in HIV RNA level in HIV infected patients previously taking anti HIV medicines. In June 2004, the Company and Otsuka announced that the European Commission granted marketing authorization for ABILIFY*, an antipsychotic medication, for the treatment of schizophrenia. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd., Otsukas European holding company, holds the marketing authorization for ABILIFY* in Europe. The Company and Otsuka currently copromote ABILIFY* in the United Kingdom and Germany, and will also copromote it in France and Spain. In addition, the Company also has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in a number of other countries in Europe. In the U.S., the FDA approved ABILIFY* for the treatment of acute bipolar mania in September 2004, and in December 2004, the Company and Otsuka received approval from the FDA for an oral solution formulation of ABILIFY*. The oral solution became available in U.S. pharmacies in February 2005. In May 2004, the Company entered into a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with Solvay Pharmaceuticals (Solvay) to codevelop and copromote the investigational compound SLV319 which is currently in Phase I development with potential for use in treating obesity and other metabolic disorders. The Company may also elect to develop and market two additional investigational compounds selected from Solvays pool of eligible compounds. The Company paid Solvay an upfront milestone payment of $10 million in July 2004, which was expensed as research and development. Further milestone payments are expected to be made upon the successful outcome of certain development and regulatory stages. In April 2004, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with Merck for worldwide codevelopment and copromotion for muraglitazar, the Companys dual PPAR (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor) agonist, currently in Phase III clinical development for use in treating Type 2 diabetes. An NDA for muraglitazar was submitted to the FDA in December 2004 for U.S. regulatory approval. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received a $100 million upfront payment in May 2004, and received an additional $55 million milestone payment in January 2005 for the filing of the NDA. The Company is entitled to receive $220 million in additional payments upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones. The Company and Merck will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy for muraglitazar, share equally in future development and commercialization costs and copromote the product to physicians on a global basis, with Merck to receive payments based on net sales levels. In April 2004, the Company and Pierre Fabre Medicament S.A. (Pierre Fabre), entered into an agreement to develop and commercialize JAVLOR** (vinflunine), a novel investigational anti cancer agent. JAVLOR* is currently in Phase III clinical trials in Europe for the treatment of bladder and non small cell lung cancer, and Phase II clinical trials in breast and ovarian cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company received an exclusive license to JAVLOR* in the United States, Canada, Japan, Korea, and select Southeast Asian markets. Pierre Fabre will be responsible for the development and marketing of JAVLOR* in all other countries, including Europe. Under the agreement, the Company made and expensed upfront and milestone payments of $35 million in 2004, with the potential for an additional $175 million in milestone payments over time. In April 2004, the Company announced the completion of the acquisition of Acordis for $158 million. Acordis is a privately held company based in the U.K. that licenses patent rights and supplies materials to ConvaTec for its Wound Therapeutics line. The acquired business was incorporated as part of the Companys ConvaTec division. This acquisition will enable ConvaTec to strengthen its position in the field of wound care management and continue to provide new treatment options for patients with acute or chronic wound care needs. See Item 1. Financial Statements Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures. In March 2004, the Company announced that its Medical Imaging business entered into an agreement with Kereos, Inc. (Kereos) for the development and commercialization of novel molecular imaging agents. Under the terms of the agreement, the companies will work together to develop molecular imaging agents for cardiovascular diseases and cancer using Kereos core technology. Medical Imaging has obtained exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize select cardiovascular molecular imaging agents for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Kereos has obtained exclusive worldwide rights to use a family of Medical Imaging targeting molecules with Kereos core technology to develop and commercialize molecular cancer imaging agents and targeted therapeutics, including KI 001 Kereos lead candidate for early MRI detection of tumors. In February 2004, the FDA approved the BLA for ERBITUX*, the anticancer agent that the Company is developing in partnership with ImClone. ERBITUX* Injection is for use in combination with irinotecan in the treatment of patients with Epidermal 54 Table of Contents Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan based chemotherapy and for use as a single agent in the treatment of patients with EGFR expressing, metastatic colorectal cancer who are intolerant to irinotecan based chemotherapy. In accordance with the agreement, the Company paid ImClone $250 million in March 2004 as a milestone payment for the approval of ERBITUX* by the FDA. The FDA also approved ImClones Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls supplemental BLA for licensure of its BB36 manufacturing facility for ERBITUX* in June 2004. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $7.5 billion at December 31, 2004, compared with $5.6 billion at December 31, 2003. The Company continues to maintain a high level of working capital, which was $5.0 billion at December 31, 2004, increasing from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2003. In 2005, the Company expects cash generated by its U.S. operations, together with borrowings from the capital markets, to sufficiently cover cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, milestone payments and dividends paid in the United States. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, the conversion of other working capital items and borrowings are expected to fund near term operations. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately $16.9 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company accrued a provision for $575 million of estimated deferred taxes in the fourth quarter of 2004 which is expected to be paid in 2005, in anticipation of repatriating approximately $9 billion of the undistributed earnings in 2005 pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). Taxes were not provided on the balance of undistributed earnings of approximately $7.9 billion, as the Company has invested or expects to invest these undistributed earnings permanently offshore. If in the future these earnings are repatriated to the United States, or if the Company determines such earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided. The AJCA, which President Bush signed into law on October 22, 2004, provides for a temporary 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain cash distributions of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The deduction would result in a federal tax rate of approximately 5.25% on the repatriated earnings (assuming a marginal federal tax rate of 35% on those earnings). To qualify for the deduction, the repatriated earnings must be reinvested in the United States pursuant to a domestic reinvestment plan approved by a companys chief executive officer and subsequently by its board of directors. In January 2005, the Department of Treasury issued guidelines for permitted investments under the plan. The Company expects to meet the requirements and criteria to qualify for the deduction. However, several provisions in the AJCA require further clarification which may be addressed in the coming months by the Treasury or Congress. The Companys estimate of the tax cost related to the repatriation at December 31, 2004 was based on tax laws then in effect. To the extent the tax laws and guidance changes, the estimate will be revised. The Companys estimate may also be revised as a result of any changes in the Companys factual assumptions that may occur. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2004 primarily consisted of U.S. dollar denominated bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Marketable securities at December 31, 2004 primarily consisted of U.S. dollar denominated floating rate instruments with a AAA/aaa credit rating. Due to the nature of these instruments, the Company considers it reasonable to expect that their fair market values will not be significantly impacted by a change in interest rates, and that they can be liquidated for cash at short notice. The average interest yield on cash and cash equivalents was 2.3% and 1.2% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, while interest yields on marketable securities averaged 2.5% and 1.3%, respectively. Long term debt at December 31, 2004 was denominated primarily in U.S. dollars but also included Japanese yen debt of $187 million. Long term debt remained constant at $8.5 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003. A majority of the Companys debt is fixed rate. The Company, however, has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps for $6.2 billion of its long term debt. Interest expense, net of interest swap gains, was $310 million, $277 million, and $364 million, in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in interest expense in 2004 over 2003 was primarily due to increased short term borrowings and higher interest rates; the decrease in 2003 over 2002 was driven by the net gains from interest rate swaps. U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2004 was $1.6 billion with an average interest rate of 2.3%. There was no U.S. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. The average interest rate for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, on international short term borrowings were 9.3% and 8.0%, respectively, and on current installments of long term debt were 2.8% and 1.3%, respectively. In December 2004, the Company replaced its prior $1 billion revolving credit facilities with a new $2 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders, which is extendable on the anniversary date with the consent of the lenders. The availability of the facility is subject to the Companys ability at the time of borrowing to meet certain conditions, including a financial covenant in which net debt to capital cannot exceed 50%. This facility does not contain a material adverse change representation in the Companys business as a condition to borrowing. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had a ratio of consolidated net debt to consolidated capital of 14%, and has been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of the facility. Changes in public 55 Table of Contents credit ratings will not affect the availability of the credit facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company also had unused short term lines of credit with foreign banks of $158 million and $363 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In April 2003, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) lowered the Companys long term credit rating from Aa2 to A1 and in March 2003, affirmed the Prime 1 short term credit rating for the Company. In July 2003, Standard & Poors (S&P) lowered its long term credit rating on the Company from AA to AA and affirmed its A 1+ short term rating. In March 2004, S&P placed both long term and short term ratings of the Company on watch with negative implications. In August 2004, S&P downgraded the short term credit rating for the Company to A1 and the long term credit rating of the Company to A+. Both Moodys and S&Ps long term credit rating remains on negative outlook. The following is a discussion of working capital and cash flow activities: 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in millions) Working capital $ 4,958 $ 4,536 $ 1,573 Cash flow from: Operating activities 3,176 3,512 945 Investing activities (1,622 ) (2,419 ) (2,030 ) Financing activities (463 ) (1,031 ) (1,033 ) The increase in working capital of $422 million from 2003 was primarily due to: increased receivables resulting from higher sales and higher foreign withholding taxes expected to be refunded; higher inventories resulting from new product introductions and higher demand for existing key brands; partially offset by higher accounts payable due to higher purchasing activities in 2004; and higher accrued expenses, rebates and returns mainly due to increases in royalties, higher unrealized losses from derivatives and Medicaid rebates. Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.2 billion in 2004, $3.5 billion in 2003 and $0.9 billion in 2002. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for 2004 is mainly attributable to lower earnings and higher usage of working capital. The significant changes in operating assets and liabilities between 2004 and 2003 are: a $260 million increase in inventory primarily due to the introduction of new products including REYATAZ and ERBITUX* and higher demand for key brands including PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and SUSTIVA; a $350 million decrease in deferred revenue on consigned inventory due to the workdown of the consignment inventory in 2003; and a $146 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses including advertising and promotion, deferred revenue for ABILIFY* and milestone payments. The increase in 2003 over 2002 was primarily due to income tax payment in 2002 related to the gain arising from the sale of the Clairol business, increase in earnings, higher rate of decrease in deferred revenue on consigned inventory due to the workdown of the consignment inventory, higher accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by reduction in accounts receivable and increased litigation settlement payments. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.6 billion in 2004 compared to $2.4 billion in 2003 and $2.0 billion in 2002. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities is mainly attributable to $364 million cash proceeds from the sale of the Companys Adult Nutritional business, lower purchases in marketable securities and $261 million of lower capital spending, partially offset by a milestone payment of $250 million to ImClone, $150 million payment for the Acordis acquisition and increased purchases of trademarks, patents and licenses. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 billion in 2004, and $1.0 billion in both 2003 and 2002. The decrease in 2004 from 2003 was mainly attributable to an increase in short term borrowings in 2004 partially offset by the proceeds received from the issuance of convertible debt in 2003. Cash provided from operations and borrowings were primarily used over the past three years to pay dividends of $6.5 billion. The Company has also invested $2.7 billion over the past three years in capital expansion to improve plant efficiency and maintain superior research facilities. During 2004 and 2003, the Company did not repurchase any of its common stock. The Company repurchased 5 million shares of common stock at a cost of $164 million in 2002, bringing the total shares acquired since the share repurchase programs inception to 372 million shares. The share repurchase program authorizes the Company to purchase common stock from time to time in the open market or through private transactions as market conditions permit. This program is intended to reduce the increase in shares outstanding from option exercises and to obtain shares for general corporate purposes. 56 Table of Contents Dividends declared per common share were $1.12 for each of 2004, 2003, and 2002. In December 2004, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $.28 per common share and indicated a dividend for the full year 2005 of $1.12 per share. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by the Board of Directors. The Companys financial condition and liquidity could be affected by obligations to make milestone or other one time payments and by the outcome of pending litigations and investigations, including the challenge to the PLAVIX* patent. For more information, see Item 1. Business Strategic Alliances and Arrangements, 
 
