Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook below. In addition to patents and regulatory forms of exclusivity, the Company also holds intellectual property in the form of trademarks on products such as ENFAMIL. Trademarks have no effect on market exclusivity for a product, but are considered to have marketing value. Worldwide, all of the Companys important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. Specific aspects of the law governing market exclusivity for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant Company sales: United States A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the United States must file a complete set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. The type of application filed depends on whether the drug is a chemical (a small molecule) or a biological product (a large molecule). If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a NDA. If the medicine is a biological product, a BLA is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory exclusivity rights. A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the United States must file an Abbreviated New Drug Application (aNDA) with the FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only bioequivalence between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously filed by the innovator in its NDA. Medicines approved under an NDA can receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical (also known as a new chemical entity) is entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which an aNDA cannot be filed with the FDA. If an innovators patent is challenged, as described below, the generic manufacturer may file its aNDA after the fourth year of the five year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in an NDA, but is approved in a new formulation or for a new indication on the basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection. Finally, an NDA that is designated as an Orphan Drug, which is a drug that gains an indication for treatment of a condition that occurs only rarely in the United States, can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period neither NDAs nor aNDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. Because a significant portion of patent life can be lost during the time it takes to obtain regulatory approval, the innovator can extend one patent to compensate the innovator for the lost patent term, at least in part. More specifically, the innovator may identify one patent, which claims the product or its approved method of use, and, depending on a number of factors, may extend the expiration date of that patent. There are two limits to these extensions. First, the maximum term a patent can be extended is 5 years, and second, the extension cannot cause the patent to be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of NDA approval. 19 A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity. This six month period extends most forms of exclusivity (patent and regulatory) that are listed with the FDA at the time the studies are completed and submitted to the FDA. Currently, generic versions of biological products cannot be approved under U.S. law. However, the law could change in the future. Even in the absence of new legislation, the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own safety and efficacy data, and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which involves more complex processes and are more costly than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. Beyond the minimum period of regulatory exclusivity provided by U.S. law, many (but not all) innovative drugs are also covered by patents held by the NDA sponsor. The innovator company is required to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovators listed patents expire. However, after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovators NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. If one or more of the NDA listed patents are successfully challenged, or if the innovator chooses not to sue, the first filer of a Paragraph IV certification (or first filers if more than one generic qualifies) may be entitled to a 180 day period of market exclusivity as against all other generic manufacturers. From time to time aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with respect to certain of the Companys products. The Company evaluates these aNDAs on a case by case basis and, where warranted, files suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its patent rights. Several recent developments in the United States have increased the likelihood of generic challenges to innovators intellectual property, and thus, increased the risk of loss of innovators market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators basic patents covering major pharmaceutical products. For a discussion of one such litigation related to patent challenges by generic companies, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies PLAVIX* Litigation. Second, recent statutory and regulatory provisions in the United States limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. Third, the FDA is actively considering ways to expand the use of a regulatory mechanism that allows for regulatory approval of drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required for a full NDA. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular Company product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. For more information about new legislation, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. European Union In the EU, most innovative pharmaceuticals are entitled to ten years of regulatory data protection if marketing approval is obtained via the centralized procedure. A product that receives approval under the centralized procedure automatically receives approval in every member state of the EU. However, a company then must obtain pricing and reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months, and sometimes years, to obtain. Consequently, regardless of whether or not the innovative medicine is covered by patents, generic copies relying on the innovators data usually cannot be approved for a minimum of ten years after approval. An additional one year of protection is available in certain circumstances in which the innovator drug receives a substantial new indication after approval. For innovative pharmaceuticals that gain marketing approval using the non centralized mutual recognition procedure, this period is six or ten years depending on the individual EU member state. However, regardless of regulatory exclusivity, competitors may obtain approval of an identical product on the basis of their own safety and efficacy data at any time. For more information regarding the regulation of pharmaceutical products in the EU, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. Recent pharmaceutical legislation in the EU has an impact on the procedures for authorization of pharmaceutical products in the EU under both the centralized and mutual recognition procedures. In particular, the legislation contains new data protection provisions. All products (regardless of whether they have been approved under the centralized or the mutual recognition procedures) will be subject to an 8+2+1 regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that product with the health authorities. However, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either ten or eleven years have elapsed from the initial marketing 20 authorization granted to the innovator. The possible one year extension is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing treatments. There is a transitional provision for these new data protection requirements, and these provisions will apply as new marketing authorization applications are submitted under the new legislation. Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU. However, in contrast to the United States, patents are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic copies can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant. As in the United States, patents in the EU may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are granted on a country by country basis. In general, EU law treats chemically synthesized drugs and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. A generic biological product has received regulatory marketing authorization in the E.U. Japan In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded six years of protection for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data protection and patent expirations. As in the United States, patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. In general, Japanese law treats chemically synthesized and biologically derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity. Rest of World In countries outside of the United States, the EU and Japan, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed countries utilize systems similar to either the United States (e.g., Canada) or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among less developed countries, some have adopted patent laws and or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some less developed nations have formally adopted laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO obligations is a long process, and there is no assurance of the outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of the Companys innovative drugs in less developed countries, the Company takes into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well. Marketing, Distribution and Customers The Company promotes its products in medical journals and directly to health care providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) and government agencies. The Company also markets directly to consumers in the United States through direct to consumer print, radio and television advertising. In addition, the Company sponsors general advertising to educate the public about its innovative medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of pharmaceuticals, see Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. Through the Companys sales and marketing organizations, the Company explains the approved uses and advantages of its products to medical professionals. The Company works to gain access to health authority, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including Medicare Part D plans and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of its products. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but the Company continues to develop information about its products and provides such information in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors and other medical professionals. All drugs must complete clinical trials required by regulatory authorities to show they are safe and effective for treating one or more medical problems. A manufacturer may choose, however, to undertake additional studies, including comparative clinical trials with competitive products, to demonstrate additional advantages of a compound. Those studies can be costly and take years to complete, and the results are uncertain. Balancing these considerations makes it difficult to decide whether and when to undertake such additional studies. But, when they are successful, such studies can have a major impact on approved marketing claims and strategies. The Companys operations include several pharmaceutical marketing and sales organizations. Each organization markets a distinct group of products supported by a sales force and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas or physician groups. These 21 sales forces often focus on selling new products when they are introduced, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and high value primary care physicians. In addition, Ventiv Pharma Services, LLC (Ventiv), a division of Ventiv Health, Inc., provided the Company with a sales force focused on CEFZIL (through December 2005) and TEQUIN. In January 2006, the Company provided notice to Ventiv to terminate its agreement related to the sales force for TEQUIN, effective in the first quarter of 2006. The Companys prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but the Company also sells directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. In 2005, sales to three pharmaceutical wholesalers in the United States, McKesson, Cardinal Health, Inc. (Cardinal) and AmerisourceBergen Corporation (AmerisourceBergen) accounted for approximately 20%, 19% and 11%, respectively, of the Companys total net sales. In 2004, sales to McKesson, Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 19%, 17% and 10%, respectively, of the Companys total net sales. In 2003, sales to McKesson, Cardinal and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 17%, 15% and 13%, respectively, of the Companys total net sales. Sales to these U.S. wholesalers were concentrated in the Pharmaceuticals segment. The Companys U.S. pharmaceuticals business, through the Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs), has arrangements with substantially all of its direct wholesaler customers that allow the Company to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and require those wholesalers to maintain inventory levels at approximately one month or less of their demand. In the second and third quarters of 2005, the Company negotiated amendments to its IMAs with its three largest wholesalers. The amendments extended the original agreements through December 31, 2005 and established lower limits than the original agreements for inventory levels of Company pharmaceutical products held by the wholesalers. In December 2005, the Company reached two year agreements in principle with its three largest U.S. wholesalers, which provide the same lower limits of wholesaler inventory levels as the IMA extensions previously negotiated. To help maintain the product quality of ERBITUX*, the product is shipped only to end users and not to other intermediaries (such as wholesalers) to hold for later sales. During 2004 and through May of 2005, McKesson, one of the Companys wholesalers, provided warehousing, packing and shipping services for ERBITUX*. McKesson held ERBITUX* inventory on consignment and the Company recognized revenue when McKesson shipped the inventory to the end users. McKesson also held inventories of ERBITUX* for its own account. Upon divestiture of OTN in May 2005, the company discontinued the consignment arrangement with McKesson. The Company now sells ERBITUX* to intermediaries such as specialty oncology distributors and ships ERBITUX* directly to the end users of the product who are the customers of these intermediaries. The Company recognizes revenue upon shipment to the end users. For information on sales and marketing of nutritionals, see Nutritionals Segment above. Competition The markets in which the Company competes are generally broad based and highly competitive. The principal means of competition vary among product categories and business groups. The Companys Pharmaceuticals segment competes with other worldwide research based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of the Companys products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitors product has greater efficacy for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of the Companys products. The Companys sales also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on its products by the FDA or by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, the Companys products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both. For example, in the growing market for statins, which reduce cholesterol, PRAVACHOL, the Companys second largest product ranked by 2005 net sales ($2.3 billion), experienced increased competition from established brands and new entrants. U.S. prescriptions for PRAVACHOL declined 17% in 2005 compared to 2004. PRAVACHOL has begun to lose exclusivity in Europe. Between now and its anticipated loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2006, its expected rate of decline in sales and in share of the statin segment could be accelerated by increased competition. To successfully compete for business with managed care and pharmacy benefits management organizations, the Company must often demonstrate that its products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that the Company introduces must compete with other products already on the market or products that are later developed by competitors. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically invest far less in research and development than research based pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the product. In certain countries outside the United States, patent protection is weak or nonexistent and the Company must compete with generic versions shortly after it launches its innovative product. 22 Many other companies, large and small, manufacture and sell one or more products that are similar to those marketed by the Companys Nutritionals and Other Health Care segments. Sources of competitive advantage include product quality and efficacy, brand identity, advertising and promotion, product innovation, broad distribution capabilities, customer satisfaction and price. Significant expenditures for advertising, promotion and marketing are generally required to achieve both consumer and trade acceptance of these products. The Company believes its long term competitive position depends upon its success in discovering and developing innovative, cost effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with its ability to manufacture the products efficiently and to market them effectively in a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that the Companys research and development efforts will result in commercially successful products or that its products or processes will not become outmoded from time to time as a result of products or processes developed by its competitors. Managed Care Organizations The growth of MCOs in the United States has been a major factor in the competitive make up of the health care marketplace. Over half the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. Because of the size of the patient population covered by MCOs, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the PBMs that serve many of those organizations has become important to the Companys business. MCOs can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D formularies, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities, enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to the Company. A major objective of MCOs is to contain and, where possible, reduce health care expenditures. They typically use formularies, volume purchases and long term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. MCOs and PBMs typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one MCO to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. MCOs use a variety of means to encourage patients use of products listed on their formularies. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. The Company has been generally, although not universally, successful in having its major products included on MCO formularies. Generic Competition One of the biggest competitive challenges that the Company faces in the United States and, to a lesser extent, internationally is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, the Company can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time. In the United States, the FDA approval process exempts generics from costly and time consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, and allows generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the pioneer product. Therefore, generic competitors operate without the Companys large research and development expenses and its costs of conveying medical information about the product to the medical community. For more information about market exclusivity, see Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity above. The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in less developed countries. The rate of sales decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture. As noted above, MCOs that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand name drugs. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand name drugs in their health care programs. Laws in the United States generally allow, and in many cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to a brand name drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. These laws and policies provide an added incentive for generic manufacturers to seek marketing approval as the automatic substitution removes the need for generic manufacturers to incur many of the sales and marketing costs, which innovators must incur. 23 Research and Development The Company invests heavily in research and development because it believes it is critical to its long term competitiveness. Pharmaceutical research and development is carried out by the Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute, which has major facilities in Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New Jersey and Wallingford, Connecticut. Pharmaceutical research and development is also carried out at various other facilities in the United States and in Belgium, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in the Pharmaceutical Research Institute. The Company spent $2,746 million in 2005, $2,500 million in 2004 and $2,279 million in 2003 on Company sponsored research and development activities. Company sponsored pharmaceutical research and development spending (including certain payments under third party collaborations and contracts), as a percentage of Pharmaceutical sales, was 16.5% in 2005, compared with 14.7% in 2004 and 14.0% in 2003. At the end of 2005, the Company employed approximately 7,800 people in research and development throughout the Company, including over 6,200 in the Pharmaceutical Research Institute, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher skilled technical personnel. The Company concentrates its pharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical needs: Affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimers/dementia, atherosclerosis/thrombosis, diabetes, hepatitis, human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS), obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. However, the Company continues to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, the Company looks for ways to expand the value of existing products through new uses and formulations that can provide additional benefits to patients. To supplement the Companys internal efforts, the Company collaborates with independent research organizations, including educational institutions and research based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and contracts with others for the performance of research in their facilities. The Company uses the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products. The Company actively seeks out investments in external research and technologies that hold the promise to complement and strengthen its own research efforts. These investments can take many forms, including licensing arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint ventures. Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new molecular entities through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the NDA or the BLA to the FDA for the required approval. The development of certain other products is also subject to government regulations covering safety and efficacy in the United States and many foreign countries. There can be no assurance that a compound developed as a result of any program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed for any particular disease indication. On average, only about one in ten thousand chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes ten years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. The Company believes its investments in research, both internally and in collaboration with others, have been rewarded by the number of new pharmaceutical compounds and indications it has in all stages of development. The Companys drug discovery program includes many alliances and collaborative agreements. These agreements bring new products into the pipeline or help the Company remain on the cutting edge of technology in the search for novel medicines. Listed below are several investigational compounds that the Company has in the later stages of development. All of these compounds are in Phase III clinical trials or under regulatory review. Whether or not any of these investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of the Companys marketed products depends on the results of pre clinical and clinical studies, the competitive landscape of the potential products market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that the Company will seek regulatory approval of any of these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. At this stage of development, the Company cannot determine all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below does not include potential patent term extensions. 24 EMSAM* EMSAM*, an investigational monoamine oxidase inhibitor administered as a transdermal patch for the treatment of patients with major depressive disorder, is being codeveloped with Somerset and has received an approvable letter from the FDA in February 2004. In October 2005, an FDA Advisory Committee recommended EMSAM* could be safely administered without dietary modifications at the 6mg./24 hour dose. On February 27, 2006, the FDA approved EMSAM* for use without dietary modifications at the lowest dose of 6mg./24 hour. Ixabepilone Ixabepilone, an epothilone B analog, which is being developed internally, is a novel tubulin inhibitor for multiple tumor types. It is developed internally and is currently in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer and in Phase II clinical trials for the treatment of prostate cancer. The Company has a composition of matter patent in the United States that expires in 2018. Vinflunine Vinflunine, which is being codeveloped with Pierre Fabre and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a novel investigational anti cancer agent. Pierre Fabre has a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2014. Ipilimumab Ipilimumab, which is being codeveloped with Medarex and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is a monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment. It is in a novel class of agents intended to potentiate elements of the immunologic response. The Company owns a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2016 and has rights to method of use patents owned by Medarex that expire in the U.S. in 2015. The Company also has rights to a Medarex composition of matter patent that expires in 2020 and pending Medarex patent applications covering composition of matter and method of use of ipilimumab. Belatacept Belatacept, a biological product, which is being developed internally and is in Phase III clinical trials, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at prevention of solid organ transplant rejection. The Company has pending patent applications in the United States and Japan, and a granted patent application in the EU, covering belatacept. Saxagliptin Saxagliptin, which is being developed internally and is currently in Phase III clinical trials, is an oral compound for the potential treatment of diabetes. A patent application covering the composition of matter has been issued, and will expire in 2021 in the U.S. Dasatinib Dasatinib, which is being developed internally, is an investigational multi targeted kinase inhibitor to treat adult chronic myelogenous leukemia in chronic, accelerated or blast phases. In December 2005, the Company submitted an NDA to the FDA and, on March 7, 2006, the NDA was accepted and granted priority review for accelerated approval. The Company submitted an MAA to the EMEA in January 2006. The Company has a composition of matter patent which expires in 2020 in the U.S. Muraglitazar, is a dual PPAR agonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and other metabolic disorders. In October 2005, the FDA issued an approvable letter for muraglitazar requesting additional information from ongoing clinical trials to more fully address the cardiovascular safety profile of the product. The Company, while continuing discussions with the FDA, has determined that it will likely have to initiate additional new trials to gain regulatory approval and is considering a range of options, including conducting such additional studies or terminating further development of muraglitazar. The additional studies could take approximately five years to complete. In December 2005, the Company and Merck & Co., Inc. terminated their collaboration agreement for muraglitazar with all rights to muraglitazar returning to the Company as of December 21, 2005. As a result of the termination of the agreement, the Company recognized $143 million of deferred income in the fourth quarter of 2005 which was recorded in Other expense, net. The Company has a composition of matter patent which expires in the United States in 2020. The Companys competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. In addition, the consolidation that has occurred in the pharmaceutical industry has created companies with substantial research and development resources. The extent to which the Companys competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of its products and unanticipated product obsolescence. Government Regulation and Price Constraints The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution, post market 25 surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, and promotion of the Companys products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In addition, the Companys operations are subject to complex federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. The Company anticipates that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time, expense and significant capital investment. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of the Companys businesses and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post marketing surveillance of the Companys pharmaceutical products. The FDA also regulates most of the Companys Nutritionals and Other Health Care products. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. The Companys pharmaceutical products are subject to pre market approval requirements in the United States. New drugs are approved under, and are subject to, the FDC Act and related regulations. Biological drugs are subject to both the FDC Act and the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act), and related regulations. Biological drugs are licensed under the PHS Act. The Nutritional products are regulated by the FDA primarily under the Infant Formula Act of 1980 and its amendments (IFA). The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control to ensure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. The federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, and civil monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by the Company could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Marketing authorization for the Companys products is subject to revocation by the applicable governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, known as PDMA, as part of the FDC Act, which regulates such activities at both the federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes extensive licensing, personnel record keeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other diversions. The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to federal and state health care laws that are used to protect the integrity of government health care programs. The Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) oversees compliance with applicable federal laws, in connection with the payment for products by government funded programs (primarily Medicaid and Medicare). These laws include the federal anti kickback statute which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or services reimbursed under a government health care program. The OIG has issued a series of Guidances to segments of the health care industry, including the 2003 Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the OIG Guidance), which includes a recommendation that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. The Company subscribes to the PhRMA Code, and has implemented a compliance program to address the requirements set forth in the OIG Guidance and the Companys compliance with the health care laws. Failure to comply with these health care laws could subject the Company to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by the state and federal government agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies, the impact of which could materially adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal and state regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the United States. The Company is also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce controlled substances. The Company is, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by those organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies. Various federal and state agencies have regulatory authority regarding the manufacture, storage, transportation and disposal of many Medical Imaging products because of their radioactive nature. The Companys activities outside the United States are also subject to regulatory requirements governing the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of the Companys products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. In the EU, there are two ways that a company can obtain marketing authorization for a pharmaceutical product. The first route is the centralized procedure. This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, but also is available for certain new chemical compounds and products. The second route to obtain marketing authorization in the EU is the mutual recognition procedure. Applications are made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of some or all other member states. As set forth above, pricing and reimbursement of the product continues to be the subject of member state law. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency has been obtained for a product, approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the United States or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from country to country and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the United States. Approval in one country does not assure that such product will be approved in another country. In many markets outside the United States, the Company operates in an environment of government mandated, cost containment programs. Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and or enacted across the board price cuts as methods of cost control. Most European countries do not provide market pricing for new medicines, except the United Kingdom and Germany. Pricing freedom is limited in the United Kingdom by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, in market access for new products, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within Europe due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the health care system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. Similar cost containment issues exist in many foreign countries where the Company does business. Federal and state governments also have pursued direct methods to reduce the cost of drugs for which they pay. The Company participates in state government managed Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. Rebates under Medicaid and related state programs reduced revenues by $595 million in 2005, $673 million in 2004 and $523 million in 2003. The Company also participates in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined non federal average manufacturer price for purchases. Other prime vendor programs in which the Company participates provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). The Company recorded discounts related to the prime vendor programs of $1,090 million in 2005, $1,319 million in 2004 and $1,228 million in 2003. In the United States, governmental cost containment efforts have extended to the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for WIC. All states participate in the WIC program and have sought and obtained rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the program. All states have conducted competitive bidding for infant formula contracts, which require the use of specific infant formula products by the state WIC program, unless a physician requests a non contract formula for a WIC customer. States participating in the WIC program are required to engage in competitive bidding or to use other cost containment measures that yield savings equal to or greater than the savings generated by a competitive bidding system. Mead Johnson participates in this program and approximately half of its gross U.S. sales are subject to rebates under the WIC program. Rebates under the WIC program reduced revenues by $843 million in 2005, $846 million in 2004 and $854 million in 2003. 27 The merger of two separate Japanese pharmaceutical regulatory offices may lead to gains in efficiency and timeliness of drug registration in Japan. However, the pricing environment for pharmaceuticals in Japan remains challenging due to reference pricing and biennial government mandated price reductions. Environmental Regulation The Companys facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Pollution controls and permits are required for many of the Companys operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities. An environment, health and safety group within the Company monitors operations around the world, providing the Company with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of Company standards for compliance. The Company also incurs operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. The Company expended approximately $55 million, $27 million and $38 million on capital environmental projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental requirements in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, and expects to spend approximately $69 million in 2006. Although the Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for its operations, the Company nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or criminal fines or penalties, clean up costs, or third party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws. Many of the Companys current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and, over time, the Company and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes that are considered hazardous under federal, state and foreign environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of these facilities is or may be contaminated, and the Company may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and or restoration for damages to natural resources. Currently, the Company is involved in investigation and remediation at approximately 10 current or former Company facilities. The Company has also been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at approximately 30 waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and or remediation activities are ongoing. The Company may face liability under CERCLA and other federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites the Company bears remediation responsibility pursuant to contract obligations. Generally, at third party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Employees The Company employed approximately 43,000 people at December 31, 2005. Foreign Operations The Company has significant operations outside the United States. They are conducted both through the Companys subsidiaries and through distributors, and involve all three of the same business segments as the Companys U.S. operations Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care. Revenues from operations outside the United States of $8.7 billion accounted for 46% of the Companys total revenues in 2005. In 2005, revenues exceeded $500 million in each of France, Japan, Spain, Canada, Italy, and Germany. No single country outside the United States contributed more than 10% of the Companys total revenues. For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic in 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY About the Company Bristol Myers Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol Myers Squibb) is a worldwide pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life by providing the highest quality pharmaceutical and related health care products. The Company is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and related health care products. The Company has three reportable segments Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care. The Pharmaceuticals segment is made up of the global pharmaceutical and international consumer medicines business. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson Nutritionals (Mead Johnson), primarily an infant formula and childrens nutritionals business. The Other Health Care segment consists of the ConvaTec, Medical Imaging and Consumer Medicines (U.S. and Canada) businesses. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company completed the sale of its Consumer Medicines business. The Nutritionals and Other Health Care segments are also collectively known as the Health Care Group. For additional information about these segments, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 17. Segment Information. Business Environment The Company conducts its business primarily within the pharmaceutical industry, which is highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Many competitive factors may significantly affect the Companys sales of its products, including product efficacy, safety, price and cost effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, quality control and quality assurance of its manufacturing operations, and research and development of new products. To successfully compete for business in the health care industry, the Company must not only demonstrate its products offer medical benefits, but also cost advantages. Currently, most of the Companys new product introductions compete with other products already on the market in the same therapeutic category. The Company manufactures branded products, which are priced higher than generic products. Generic competition is one of the Companys leading challenges globally. In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative products commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss of a product, the Company can lose a major portion of that products sales in a short period of time. For further discussion on product exclusivity, see Item 1. BusinessIntellectual Property and Product Exclusivity. Both in the U.S. and internationally, the health care industry is subject to various government imposed regulations that authorize prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on the Companys sales. In the U.S., Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the health care system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. In addition, in December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act (MMA) was enacted to provide outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the United States. The MMA became effective in January 2006. The Company cannot predict the potential impact that this legislation will have on its business; however it could have a negative impact on the Companys U.S. pharmaceutical business as greater federal involvement and budget constraints may increase the likelihood of pricing pressures or controls in the future. In many markets outside the United States, the Company operates in environments of government mandated, cost containment programs, or under other regulatory regimes that can exert downward pressure on pricing. Pricing freedom is limited in the United Kingdom, for instance, by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available in some national markets. The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that surrounds the health care industry. MCOs seek to reduce health care expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into long term contracts to negotiate discounts with various pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important part of the Companys strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in a MCO formulary and the Company has generally been successful in having its major products included. The Company believes that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation, have had and will continue to have a generally downward pressure on prices. 39 Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As biologics become more important to the Companys product portfolio, the Company may continue to make arrangements with third party manufacturers, and expects to make substantial investments to increase its internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale. The Company has maintained a competitive position in the market and strives to uphold this position, which is dependent on its success in discovering and developing innovative, cost effective products that serve unmet medical needs. The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Companys results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. For additional discussion of legal matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Strategy The Company continues to execute its strategy for long term growth and is currently on track to complete its strategic transition in 2006 and to attain a period of sustainable sales and earnings growth starting in 2007. This strategy consists of increasing investments behind growth drivers, focusing the Companys research and development programs on products in the pharmaceutical pipeline in disease areas that address significant unmet medical needs, aligning sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and high value primary care prescribers, and implementing initiatives designed to achieve and maintain a more efficient cost base. The Company is in the process of transforming its pharmaceutical portfolio in favor of growth drivers and specialty products, which include PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, ABILIFY*, REYATAZ, ERBITUX* and BARACLUDE. U.S. net sales of these products accounted for 35% of the Companys worldwide pharmaceutical net sales in 2005, compared to 29% in 2004, while worldwide net sales of these products accounted for 36% of the Companys worldwide net sales in 2005 as compared to 29% in 2004. In December 2005, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved ORENCIA (abatacept) and it became commercially available in the U.S. in February 2006. ORENCIA is targeted initially at adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments. A marketing authorization application (MAA) has also been submitted for the product with the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA). In January 2006, a supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) was filed with the FDA for the approval of a third party manufacturing facility to support increased production capacity for ORENCIA. The sBLA is part of the Companys plan to engage in third party manufacturing arrangements to meet future commercial demand expected to be generated from the approval and commercialization of a variety of biologics. Also in December 2005, the Company completed the submission of its New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA for dasatinib, a kinase inhibitor for the potential treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). On March 7, 2006, the NDA was accepted and granted priority review for accelerated approval. In January 2006, the Company submitted an MAA for dasatinib to the EMEA. In October 2005, an FDA Advisory Committee recommended EMSAM*, a transdermal patch treatment of adults with major despressive disorder, could be safely administered without dietary modifications at the 6mg./24 hour dose. On February 27, 2006, the FDA approved EMSAM* for use without dietary modifications at the lowest dose of 6mg./24 hour. In keeping with its strategy, the Company invested $2.7 billion in research and development, representing a 10% growth rate over 2004. Research and development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including milestone payments for in licensing and development programs, was $2.5 billion, or 16.5% of Pharmaceutical sales in 2005 compared to $2.3 billion, or 14.7% of Pharmaceutical sales in 2004. Another major aspect of the Companys strategy relates to how it does business, specifically in its marketing and sales approaches. Specialists are playing an even greater role in decisions related to patient treatment and care, particularly in the 10 critical disease areas where the Company is focusing its efforts. The Company has realigned its U.S. and European sales forces with a focus on specialists as well as with those primary care physicians who are involved in treating patients in these disease areas. As part of its strategy, the Company is re examining its operating costs to achieve and maintain a more efficient cost base. At the end of 2005, the Company launched an initiative to identify and realize productivity savings. Through this initiative, the Company will re examine its operating model to focus resources on high value priorities; simplify and streamline business processes, governance and decision making; and build the capabilities to sustain these cost reductions for the long term. The Companys goal is to realize a minimum of $500 million in productivity savings in 2007, an incremental $100 million in 2008 and implement lasting changes that will make the Company more productive, efficient and effective. 40 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of the Companys results of continuing operations excludes the results related to the Oncology Therapeutics Network (OTN) business, which were previously presented as a separate segment, and has been segregated from continuing operations and reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Discontinued Operations below. % Change (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 Net Sales $ 19,207 $ 19,380 $ 18,653 (1 )% 4 % Earnings from Continuing Operations Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes $ 4,516 $ 4,418 $ 4,680 2 % (6 )% % of net sales 23.5 % 22.8 % 25.1 % Provision for income taxes $ 932 $ 1,519 $ 1,210 (39 )% 26 % Effective tax rate 20.6 % 34.4 % 25.8 % Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 2,992 $ 2,378 $ 3,097 26 % (23 )% % of net sales 15.6 % 12.3 % 16.6 % Net Sales Net sales from continuing operations for 2005 decreased 1% to $19.2 billion compared to 2004. U.S. net sales in 2005 decreased 1% to $10.5 billion compared to 2004, while international net sales of $8.7 billion remained relatively constant in 2005 as compared to 2004, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact. In 2004, net sales from continuing operations increased 4% to $19.4 billion from $18.7 billion in 2003. U.S. net sales in 2004 remained relatively constant at $10.6 billion compared to 2003 and international net sales increased 10% to $8.8 billion in 2004, including a 8% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $8.0 billion in 2003. The composition of the change in sales is as follows: Analysis of % Change Total Change Volume Price ForeignExchange 2005 vs. 2004 (1)% (2)% 1% 2004 vs. 2003 4% 4% In general, the Companys business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceuticals prescriber demand, reference is made to the table within Business Segments under the Pharmaceuticals section below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of the Companys pharmaceutical products. The Company operates in three reportable segments Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care. In May 2005, the Company completed the sale of OTN, which was previously presented as a separate segment. As such, the results of operations for OTN are presented as part of the Companys results from discontinued operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Accordingly, OTN results of operations in prior periods have been reclassified to discontinued operations to conform with current year presentations. The percent of the Companys net sales by segment were as follows: Net Sales % Change (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 Pharmaceuticals $ 15,254 $ 15,564 $ 15,025 (2 )% 4 % % of net sales 79 % 80 % 80 % Nutritionals 2,205 2,001 2,023 10 % (1 )% % of net sales 12 % 10 % 11 % Other Health Care 1,748 1,815 1,605 (4 )% 13 % % of net sales 9 % 10 % 9 % Total $ 19,207 $ 19,380 $ 18,653 (1 )% 4 % 41 The Company recognizes revenue net of various sales adjustments to arrive at net sales as reported on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. These adjustments are referred to as gross to net sales adjustments and are further described in Critical Accounting Policies below. The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the Companys gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross to net sales adjustments: For the Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Gross Sales $ 23,003 $ 23,896 $ 22,992 Gross to Net Sales Adjustments Prime Vendor Charge Backs (1,090 ) (1,319 ) (1,228 ) Women, Infants and Children (WIC) Rebates (843 ) (846 ) (854 ) Managed Health Care Rebates and Other Contract Discounts (514 ) (660 ) (710 ) Medicaid Rebates (595 ) (673 ) (523 ) Cash Discounts (271 ) (311 ) (319 ) Sales Returns (164 ) (276 ) (348 ) Other Adjustments (319 ) (431 ) (357 ) Total Gross to Net Sales Adjustments (3,796 ) (4,516 ) (4,339 ) Net Sales $ 19,207 $ 19,380 $ 18,653 The decrease in prime vendor charge backs and managed health care rebates in 2005 was primarily due to lower relative sales volume in this segment due to product mix. The decrease in sales returns was primarily due to lower returns for certain products including TEQUIN, PRAVACHOL and SUSTIVA. The decrease in other adjustments was due to lower sales discounts and government rebates in the international businesses. In 2004, the increases from 2003 for prime vendor charge backs and Medicaid rebates were primarily due to a shift in sales to products with higher discounts in prime vendor and Medicaid programs while the decrease in sales returns was primarily attributable to higher sales returns in 2003 resulting from discontinued products and product conversions. The following table sets forth the activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross to net sales adjustments: (Dollars in Millions) PrimeVendorCharge Backs Women,Infants andChildren(WIC)Rebates ManagedHealth CareRebates andOtherContractDiscounts MedicaidRebates CashDiscounts Sales Returns OtherAdjustments Total Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 101 $ 208 $ 249 $ 233 $ 30 $ 268 $ 124 $ 1,213 Provision related to sales made in current period 1,314 843 646 618 311 270 463 4,465 Provision related to sales made in prior periods 5 3 14 55 6 (32 ) 51 Returns and payments (1,314 ) (820 ) (711 ) (534 ) (308 ) (316 ) (385 ) (4,388 ) Impact of foreign currency translation 1 6 7 Balance at December 31, 2004 106 234 198 372 33 229 176 1,348 Provision related to sales made in current period 1,096 843 509 558 269 191 351 3,817 Provision related to sales made in prior periods (6 ) 5 37 2 (27 ) (32 ) (21 ) Returns and payments (1,089 ) (825 ) (542 ) (641 ) (278 ) (206 ) (364 ) (3,945 ) Impact of foreign currency translation (3 ) (2 ) (7 ) (12 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 107 $ 252 $ 167 $ 326 $ 26 $ 185 $ 124 $ 1,187 In 2005, the Company recorded gross to net sales adjusting charges and credits related to sales made in prior periods. The significant items included charges of $37 million for Medicaid rebates primarily as a result of higher than expected Medicaid utilization of various products; credits of $32 million for other adjustments primarily as a result of lower than expected rebates to foreign governments; and credits of $27 million for sales returns resulting from lower returns for certain products including TEQUIN, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and PLAVIX*. In 2004, the Company recorded charges of $55 million for Medicaid rebates related to sales made in prior periods. These charges include $34 million for rebate claims from prior years by certain states, primarily in relation to Medicaid utilization of oncology products not previously reported to the Company, and other revisions resulting from the availability of additional information. In addition, the Company recorded $32 million for other adjustments as a result of lower than expected rebates to foreign governments. 42 No other significant revisions were made to the estimates for gross to net sales adjustments in 2005 and 2004. Pharmaceuticals The composition of the change in pharmaceutical sales is as follows: Analysis of % Change Total Change Volume Price ForeignExchange 2005 vs. 2004 (2)% (3)% 1% 2004 vs. 2003 4% 1% (1)% 4% In 2005, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales decreased 2% to $15,254 million. U.S. pharmaceutical sales in 2005 decreased 3% to $8,190 million compared to $8,446 million in 2004, primarily due to the continued impact of exclusivity losses of PARAPLATIN and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise and increased competition for PRAVACHOL, partially offset by increased sales of growth drivers including PLAVIX*, ABILIFY*, ERBITUX* and REYATAZ. In aggregate, estimated wholesaler inventory levels of the Companys key pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceutical business at the end of 2005 were down from the end of 2004 by approximately three tenths of a month to approximately two and a half weeks. The decline in inventory levels negatively impacted the sales performance of certain products in 2005. International pharmaceutical sales in 2005 decreased 1%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact to $7,064 million, primarily due to increased generic competition for PRAVACHOL and TAXOL&reg;(paclitaxel), partially offset by increased sales of newer products including REYATAZ and ABLILFY*, as well as growth of PLAVIX*. In 2004, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals sales increased 4% to $15,564 million. U.S. pharmaceutical sales in 2004 remained constant at $8,446 million compared to $8,431 million in 2003. U.S. sales were negatively affected by increased competition for PRAVACHOL and exclusivity losses of PARAPLATIN and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise, offset by increased sales of PLAVIX* and newer products, including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and ERBITUX*. International pharmaceutical sales in 2004 increased 8% to $7,118 million, including a 9% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to generic competition for PRAVACHOL and TAXOL&reg;(paclitaxel), partially offset by the launches of ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and continued growth in PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*. Key pharmaceutical products and their sales, representing 80%, 80% and 78% of total pharmaceutical sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are as follows: (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 % Change 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 Cardiovascular PLAVIX* $ 3,823 $ 3,327 $ 2,467 15 % 35 % PRAVACHOL 2,256 2,635 2,827 (14 )% (7 )% AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 982 930 757 6 % 23 % COUMADIN 212 255 303 (17 )% (16 )% MONOPRIL 208 274 470 (24 )% (42 )% Virology REYATAZ 696 414 88 68 % ** SUSTIVA 680 621 544 10 % 14 % ZERIT 216 272 354 (21 )% (23 )% VIDEX/VIDEX EC 174 274 267 (36 )% 3 % BARACLUDE 12 Other Infectious Diseases CEFZIL 259 270 327 (4 )% (17 )% Oncology TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) 747 991 934 (25 )% 6 % ERBITUX* 413 261 58 % PARAPLATIN 157 673 905 (77 )% (26 )% Affective (Psychiatric) Disorders ABILIFY* (total revenue) 912 593 283 54 % 110 % Metabolics GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise 172 336 948 (49 )% (65 )% Other Pharmaceuticals EFFERALGAN 283 274 244 3 % 12 % ** Change is in excess of 200% 43 Sales of PLAVIX*, a platelet aggregation inhibitor sold by the Company primarily in the U.S., increased 15%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $3,823 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to prescription growth of approximately 13% in the U.S. market. The rate of growth in 2005 reflects a deceleration in the growth rate of PLAVIX* sales, compared to a growth rate of 35%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact in 2004 from 2003, primarily due to prescription growth of 24% in the U.S. in 2004. The Company is seeking to enhance the growth rate through several measures, including an expansion of a related direct to consumer (DTC) campaign, and the recently filed sNDA for the results from the COMMIT and CLARITY trials, although there can be no assurance that those efforts will be successful. Sales in 2004 were $3,327 million and sales were $2,467 million in 2003. PLAVIX* is a cardiovascular product that was launched from the alliance between the Company and Sanofi Aventis (Sanofi). Market exclusivity for PLAVIX* is expected to expire in 2011 in the U.S. and 2013 in the European Union (EU). Statements on exclusivity are subject to any adverse determination that may occur with respect to the PLAVIX* patent litigation. For additional information on the PLAVIX* patent litigation, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Sales of PRAVACHOL, an HMG Co A reductase inhibitor, decreased 14% to $2,256 million in 2005 from 2004. U.S. sales decreased 10% to $1,274 million in 2005, primarily due to lower demand resulting from increased competition and the related reduction in wholesaler inventory levels, partially offset by lower managed health care rebates in 2005. Estimated U.S. prescriptions declined by approximately 17% compared to 2004. International sales decreased 19%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $982 million, reflecting generic competition in key European markets. In 2004, sales for PRAVACHOL decreased 7%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $2,635 million from $2,827 million in 2003, primarily due to a decrease in U.S. prescription demand of approximately 10% and exclusivity loss in select European markets, including Germany and the UK. The Company entered into a distribution agreement with Watson Pharmaceutical (Watson) authorizing Watson to distribute pravastatin sodium tablets in the U.S. Market exclusivity protection for PRAVACHOL is expected to expire on April 20, 2006 in the U.S. Market exclusivity in the EU expired in 2004, with the exception of France and Sweden, for which expiration will occur in August and March 2006, respectively, and in Italy, where expiration will occur in January 2008. Sales of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension, also part of the Sanofi alliance, increased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $982 million in 2005 from 2004. U.S. sales increased 2% to $574 million in 2005 compared to 2004, primarily due to increased demand, partially offset by a reduction in wholesaler inventory levels in 2005. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand increased approximately 11% compared to 2004. International sales increased 11%, including a 3% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $408 million from $368 million in 2004, primarily due to increased sales in Canada, France and Germany. In 2004, sales increased 23%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $930 million from $757 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales in Europe and strong U.S. prescription growth of approximately 15%. U.S. sales increased 19% to $562 million in 2004 compared to $474 million in 2003, while international sales increased 30%, including a 12% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $368 million from $283 million in 2003. Market exclusivity for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (known in the EU as APROVEL*/KARVEA*) is expected to expire in 2011 in the U.S. and in 2012 in countries in the EU; AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* is not currently marketed in Japan. Sales of COUMADIN, an oral anti coagulant used predominantly in patients with atrial fibrillation or deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism, decreased 17% to $212 million in 2005 compared to 2004 sales, due to continued competition. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand decreased approximately 19% compared to 2004. Sales in 2004 decreased 16% to $255 million from $303 million in 2003, due to increased generic competition. Market exclusivity for COUMADIN expired in the U.S. in 1997. Sales of MONOPRIL, a second generation angiotesin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for the treatment of hypertension, decreased 24%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $208 million in 2005 due to increased generic competition in key European markets. Sales in 2004 were $274 million, a decrease of 42%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, from $470 million in 2003, due to the impact of market exclusivity loss. Market exclusivity protection for MONOPRIL expired in 2003 in the U.S. and has expired or is expected to expire between 2001 and 2008 in countries in the EU. MONOPRIL is not currently marketed in Japan. Sales of REYATAZ, a protease inhibitor for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which was launched in the U.S. in the third quarter of 2003 and in Europe in the second quarter of 2004, increased 68% to $696 million in 2005, primarily due to increased demand. European sales increased 174% to $203 million in 2005 from $74 million in 2004. REYATAZ has achieved an estimated monthly new prescription share of the U.S. protease inhibitors market of approximately 28%. Sales in 2004 were $414 million compared to $88 million in 2003. Market exclusivity for REYATAZ is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., in countries in the EU and Japan. Sales of SUSTIVA, a non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, increased 10% to $680 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to estimated total U.S. prescription growth of approximately 5%, higher average selling prices and lower sales returns. In 2004, SUSTIVA sales increased 14%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange 44 impact, to $621 million from $544 million in 2003, primarily due to increased demand in 2004 and higher prices. Market exclusivity protection for SUSTIVA is expected to expire in 2013 in the U.S. and in countries in the EU; the Company does not, but others do, market SUSTIVA in Japan. Sales of ZERIT, an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, decreased 21%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $216 million in 2005, primarily as a result of a decrease in estimated total U.S. prescriptions of approximately 31% compared to 2004. In 2004, ZERIT sales decreased 23%, including a 4% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $272 million from $354 million in 2003, primarily as a result of continued decrease in demand due to potential adverse side effects. Market exclusivity protection for ZERIT is expected to expire in 2008 in the U.S., between 2007 and 2011 in countries in the EU and in 2008 in Japan. Sales of VIDEX/VIDEX EC, an antiretroviral agent used in the treatment of HIV, decreased 36% to $174 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to generic competition in the U.S., which began in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004, VIDEX/VIDEX EC sales increased 3%, including a 6% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $274 million in 2004 from $267 million in 2003 due to increased sales in Europe, partially offset by sale declines in the U.S. The Company has a licensing arrangement with the U.S. Government for VIDEX/VIDEX EC, which by its terms became non exclusive in 2001. The U.S. Governments intellectual property protection expires in 2007 in the U.S. (which includes an earned pediatric extension) and in Japan, and between 2006 and 2009 in countries in the EU. The license to the Company is non exclusive, which has allowed another company to obtain a license from the U.S. Government and receive approval for marketing. With respect to VIDEX/VIDEX EC, the Company has patents covering the reduced mass formulation of VIDEX/VIDEX EC that expire in 2012 in the U.S., the EU and Japan. However, these patents apply only to the type of reduced mass formulation specified in the patent. Other reduced mass formulations may exist. There is currently no issued patent covering the VIDEX EC formulation. BARACLUDE, the Companys internally developed oral antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, was approved by the FDA in March 2005, and generated sales of $12 million primarily in the U.S. since its U.S. launch in April 2005. BARACLUDE received approvals from international authorities including China, Mexico, Brazil, Indonesia and Argentina during the second half of 2005. The Company believes that the primary markets for BARACLUDE will be outside the U.S. The Company has a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2010. Sales of CEFZIL, an antibiotic for the treatment of mild to moderately severe bacterial infections, decreased 4%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $259 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to lower demand. In 2004, CEFZIL sales decreased 17%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $270 million from $327 million in 2003, primarily due to decreased demand in the U.S., partially offset by higher international sales. Market exclusivity expired in December 2005 in the U.S. and is expected to expire between 2007 and 2009 in the EU. Sales of TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel), an anti cancer agent sold almost exclusively in the non U.S. markets, were $747 million in 2005 compared to $991 million in 2004. Sales of TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) decreased 25%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily as a result of increased generic competition in Europe. Generic competition for TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) in a majority of the major European markets began in the second quarter of 2004 and increased in the second half of 2004. In 2004, TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) sales increased 6%, including a 9% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $991 million from $934 million in 2003, primarily due to generic competition in Europe. Market exclusivity protection for TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) expired in 2002 in the U.S., in 2003 in the EU and is expected to expire between 2006 and 2013 in Japan. ERBITUX*, used to treat refractory metastatic colorectal cancer, was approved by the FDA in February 2004. Sales of ERBITUX*, which is sold almost exclusively in the U.S., increased 58% to $413 million in 2005 compared to $261 million in 2004. ERBITUX* is marketed by the Company under a distribution and copromotion agreement with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone). A patent relating to combination therapy with ERBITUX* expires in 2017. The Companys right to market ERBITUX* in North America and Japan expires in September 2018. The Company does not, but others do, market ERBITUX* in countries in the EU. Sales of PARAPLATIN, an anti cancer agent, decreased 77% to $157 million in 2005 from 2004 due to generic competition in the U.S. that began in mid 2004 and increased with the entry of multiple generic competitors in the fourth quarter of 2004. U.S. sales of PARAPLATIN decreased 95% to $28 million in 2005 from 2004. In 2004, PARAPLATIN sales decreased 26%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $673 million from $905 million in 2003, primarily due to generic competition in the U.S. Market exclusivity protection for PARAPLATIN expired in October 2004 in the U.S., in 2000 in the EU and in 1998 in Japan. Total revenue for ABILIFY*, an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute bipolar mania and Bipolar Disorder, increased 54% to $912 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to demand growth in the U.S. and the continued 45 growth in Europe, which achieved sales of $140 million in 2005. Estimated U.S. prescription demand grew approximately 42% compared to 2004, partially offset by a reduction in wholesaler inventory levels in 2005. Sales growth in the future could be impacted by a trend involving an overall decrease in the rate of growth in demand for antipsychotic agents in the U.S. In 2004, total revenue for ABILIFY* was $593 million, compared to $283 million in 2003. Total revenue for ABILIFY* primarily consists of alliance revenue representing the Companys 65% share of net sales in copromotion countries with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka). Otsukas market exclusivity protection for ABILIFY* is expected to expire in 2014 in the U.S. (including the granted patent term extension). The Company also has the right to copromote ABILIFY* in several European countries (the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Spain) and to act as exclusive distributor for the product in the rest of the EU. Market exclusivity protection for ABILIFY* is expected to expire in 2009 for the EU (and may be extended until 2014 if pending supplemental protection certificates are granted). The Companys contractual right to market ABILIFY* expires in November 2012 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and, for the countries in the EU where the Company has the exclusive right to market ABILIFY* until June 2014. Statements on exclusivity are subject to any adverse determination that may occur with respect to the ABILIFY* patent reexamination. For additional information on this matter, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. For additional information on revenue recognition of ABILIFY*, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Investments. Sales for the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise decreased 49% to $172 million in 2005, compared to a 65% decrease to $336 million in 2004 from $948 million in 2003. The decrease in sales in both 2005 and 2004 primarily resulted from increased generic competition. Market exclusivity protection expired in March 2000 for GLUCOPHAGE* IR, in October 2003 for GLUCOPHAGE* XR and in January 2004 for GLUCOVANCE*. The Company does not, but others do, market these products in the EU and Japan. Sales of EFFERALGAN, a formulation of acetaminophen for pain relief, increased 3%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $283 million in 2005, primarily due to increased sales in Italy and Spain as a result of a strong flu season in 2005. In 2004, sales increased 12%, including a 12% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $274 million from $244 million in 2003. The estimated U.S. prescription and U.S. prescription growth data provided above includes information only from the retail and mail order channels and do not reflect information from other channels, such as hospitals, institutions and long term care, among others. The estimated prescription and prescription growth data are based on National Prescription Audit (NPA) data provided by IMS Health (IMS), a supplier of market research for the pharmaceutical industry, as described below. In most instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated above is the expiration date of the patent that claims the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date indicated is the expiration date of the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval prior to the expiration of the data exclusivity period by submitting its own clinical trial data to obtain marketing approval. The Company assesses the market exclusivity period for each of its products on a case by case basis. The length of market exclusivity for any of the Companys products is difficult to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms of exclusivity and other factors. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that the Company currently anticipates. The estimates of market exclusivities reported above are for business planning purposes only and are not intended to reflect the Companys legal opinion regarding the strength or weakness of any particular patent or other legal position. For further discussion of market exclusivity protection, including a chart showing net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is expected to occur in the U.S., the EU and Japan, see Item 1. Business Products and Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity. Estimated End User Demand The following tables set forth for each of the Companys top 15 pharmaceutical products sold by the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business (based on 2004 annual net sales), for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 compared to the same periods in the prior year: (a) changes in reported U.S. net sales for the period; (b) estimated total U.S. prescription growth for the retail and mail order channels and the estimated U.S. therapeutic category share of the applicable product, calculated by the Company based on NPA data provided by IMS; and (c) estimated total U.S. prescription growth for the retail and mail order channels and the estimated U.S. therapeutic category share of the applicable product, calculated by the Company based on Next Generation Prescription Services (NGPS) data provided by IMS. 46 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Month Ended December 31, 2005 % Changein U.S. Net Sales (a) % Change in U.S. Total Prescriptions Estimated TRx Therapeutic Category Share %(e) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) ABILIFY* (total revenue) 35 42 40 11 11 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 2 11 12 15 15 CEFZIL (5 ) (10 ) (11 ) 2 2 COUMADIN (20 ) (19 ) (20 ) 21 20 DOVONEX* (7 ) (7 ) (8 ) 3 3 ERBITUX* (d) 58 N/A N/A N/A N/A GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise (52 ) (63 ) (62 ) 2 2 PARAPLATIN (d) (95 ) N/A N/A N/A N/A PLAVIX* 14 13 13 86 86 PRAVACHOL (10 ) (17 ) (16 ) 7 7 REYATAZ 33 39 37 31 31 SUSTIVA 11 5 8 24 23 TEQUIN (17 ) (30 ) (28 ) 1 1 VIDEX/VIDEX EC (73 ) (65 ) (65 ) 2 2 ZERIT (18 ) (31 ) (30 ) 7 6 Year Ended December 31, 2004 Month Ended December 31, 2004 % Changein U.S. Net Sales (a) % Change in U.S. Total Prescriptions Estimated TRx Therapeutic Category Share %(e) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) ABILIFY* (total revenue) 98 103 103 9 9 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 19 15 18 15 15 CEFZIL (31 ) (30 ) (29 ) 2 2 COUMADIN (18 ) (17 ) (21 ) 27 27 DOVONEX* 11 (7 ) (6 ) 3 3 ERBITUX* (d) N/A N/A N/A N/A GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise (66 ) (60 ) (61 ) 3 3 PARAPLATIN (d) (30 ) N/A N/A N/A N/A PLAVIX* 36 24 27 85 85 PRAVACHOL (12 ) (10 ) (9 ) 9 9 REYATAZ ** ** ** 12 12 SUSTIVA 9 4 11 24 23 TEQUIN (27 ) (24 ) (23 ) 2 2 VIDEX/VIDEX EC (3 ) (4 ) 3 9 9 ZERIT (32 ) (29 ) (27 ) 9 9 Year Ended December 31, 2003 Month Ended December 31, 2003 % Changein U.S. Net Sales (a) % Change in U.S. Total Prescriptions Estimated TRx Therapeutic Category Share %(e) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) NPA Data (b) NGPS Data (c) ABILIFY* (total revenue) ** ** *** 6 *** AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 24 15 *** 15 *** CEFZIL 14 (4 ) *** 3 *** COUMADIN 1 (15 ) *** 33 *** DOVONEX* (5 ) *** 3 *** ERBITUX* (d) N/A N/A N/A N/A GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise 22 (16 ) *** 14 *** PARAPLATIN (d) 26 N/A N/A N/A N/A PLAVIX* 27 29 *** 82 *** PRAVACHOL 22 2 *** 12 *** REYATAZ *** 3 *** SUSTIVA 13 17 *** 11 *** TEQUIN 7 (21 ) *** 2 *** VIDEX/VIDEX EC (11 ) 3 *** 6 *** ZERIT (29 ) (25 ) *** 7 *** 47 (a) Reflects percentage change in net sales in dollar terms, including change in average selling prices and wholesaler buying patterns. (b) Based on a simple average of the estimated number of prescriptions in the retail and mail order channels as provided by IMS. (c) Based on a weighted average of the estimated number of prescription units (pills) in each of the retail and mail order channels based on data provided by IMS. (d) ERBITUX* and PARAPLATIN specifically, and parenterally administered oncology products in general, do not have prescription level data because physicians do not write prescriptions for these products. The Company believes therapeutic category share information provided by third parties for these products may not be reliable and accordingly, none is presented here. (e) The therapeutic categories are determined by the Company as those products considered to be in direct competition with the Companys own products. The products listed above compete in the following therapeutic categories: ABILIFY* (antipsychotics), AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (angiotensin receptor blockers), CEFZIL (branded oral solid and liquid antibiotics), COUMADIN (warfarin), DOVONEX* (anti inflamatory antipsoriasis), GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise (oral antidiabetics), PLAVIX* (antiplatelet agents), PRAVACHOL (HMG CoA reductase inhibitors), REYATAZ (protease inhibitors), SUSTIVA (antiretrovirals third agents), TEQUIN (branded oral solid antibiotics), VIDEX/VIDEX EC (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors) and ZERIT (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors). ** In excess of 200%. *** Data for 2003 are not available, therefore this section is omitted. The Company has historically reported estimated total U.S. prescription growth and estimated therapeutic category share based on NPA data, which IMS makes available to the public on a subscription basis, and a simple average of the estimated number of prescriptions in the retail and mail order channels. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company began disclosing estimated total U.S. prescription growth and estimated therapeutic category share based on both NPA and NGPS data. NGPS data is collected by IMS under a new, revised methodology and has been released by IMS on a limited basis through a pilot program. IMS has publicly announced it expects to make NGPS data available to the public on a subscription basis in 2007. The Company believes that the NGPS data provided by IMS provides a superior estimate of prescription data for the Companys products in the retail and mail order channels. The Company has calculated the estimated total U.S. prescription growth and estimated therapeutic category share based on NGPS data on a weighted average basis to reflect the fact that mail order prescriptions include a greater volume of product supplied compared with retail prescriptions. The Company believes that calculation of the estimated total U.S. prescription growth and estimated therapeutic category share based on the NGPS data and the weighted average approach with respect to the retail and mail order channels provides a superior estimate of total prescription demand. The Company now uses this methodology for its internal demand forecasts. The estimated prescription growth data and estimated therapeutic category share provided above only include information from the retail and mail order channels and do not reflect information from other channels, such as hospitals, institutions and long term care, among others. The data provided by IMS are a product of IMSs own record keeping processes and are themselves estimates based on sampling procedures, subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling. In addition, the NGPS data is part of a pilot program that is still being refined by IMS. The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of prescription growth amounts, therapeutic category share percentages and ultimate patient/consumer demand through review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of its own and third parties data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third parties data used in such calculations. The following table sets forth for each of the Companys key pharmaceutical products sold by the Companys International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment, including the top 15 pharmaceutical products sold in the Companys major non U.S. countries (based on 2004 net sales), and for each of the key products sold by the other reporting segments listed below, the percentage change in the Companys estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand for the month of December 2005 compared to the month of September 2005, the month of September 2005 compared to the month of June 2005, and the month of June 2005 compared to the month of March 2005. 48 % Change in Demand on a Constant U.S. Dollar Basis December 2005 vs. September 2005 September 2005 vs. June 2005 June 2005 vs. March 2005 International Pharmaceuticals ABILIFY* (total revenue) 19 1 50 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (13 ) 14 BUFFERIN* 24 2 (21 ) CAPOTEN (10 ) DAFALGAN 18 (4 ) (17 ) EFFERALGAN (2 ) 39 (43 ) MAXIPIME 8 (13 ) (15 ) MONOPRIL 4 (26 ) (2 ) PARAPLATIN (1 ) (4 ) 2 PERFALGAN 19 (13 ) 5 PLAVIX* 1 (1 ) 2 PRAVACHOL (4 ) (16 ) 7 REYATAZ 2 4 5 SUSTIVA (1 ) (1 ) (7 ) TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) (4 ) (4 ) (17 ) VIDEX/VIDEX EC 3 (14 ) 3 ZERIT (6 ) (21 ) (5 ) Nutritionals ENFAMIL 1 6 NUTRAMIGEN 1 (2 ) 5 Other Health Care ConvaTec Ostomy 7 7 Wound Therapeutics 4 (3 ) 14 Medical Imaging CARDIOLITE (7 ) (6 ) (5 ) Consumer Medicines EXCEDRIN* N/A N/A (13 ) Estimated Inventory Months on Hand in the Distribution Channel The following table sets forth for each of the Companys top 15 pharmaceutical products sold by the Companys U.S. Pharmaceuticals business (based on 2004 annual net sales), the U.S. Pharmaceuticals net sales of the applicable product for each of the six quarters ended September 30, 2004 through December 31, 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel as of the end of each of the six quarters. December 31, 2005 September 30, 2005 June 30, 2005 Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Monthson Hand Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Monthson Hand Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Monthson Hand ABILIFY* (total revenue) $ 175 0.6 $ 214 0.9 $ 200 0.7 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 168 0.6 147 0.5 157 0.6 CEFZIL 46 0.7 27 0.7 30 0.8 COUMADIN 50 0.8 49 0.6 42 0.7 DOVONEX* 33 0.5 31 0.6 36 0.7 ERBITUX* 121 106 97 GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise 29 0.7 38 0.7 44 0.8 PARAPLATIN 5 0.9 9 1.1 (1 ) 0.8 PLAVIX* 906 0.6 833 0.4 823 0.6 PRAVACHOL 366 0.6 297 0.5 353 0.7 REYATAZ 110 0.5 105 0.6 98 0.8 SUSTIVA 102 0.6 101 0.6 97 0.8 TEQUIN 22 0.9 21 0.9 22 0.8 VIDEX/VIDEX EC 7 0.9 7 1.1 5 1.0 ZERIT 21 0.8 24 0.8 26 0.8 49 March 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 September 30, 2004 Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Monthson Hand Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Monthson Hand Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Monthson Hand ABILIFY* (total revenue) $ 161 0.7 $ 170 0.9 $ 152 0.6 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 102 0.8 154 0.9 148 0.6 CEFZIL 50 0.7 60 1.1 30 0.6 COUMADIN 42 1.0 69 1.0 58 0.9 DOVONEX* 30 0.6 40 0.9 34 0.7 ERBITUX* 87 ** 88 0.2 83 0.2 GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise 39 1.0 48 1.1 39 1.0 PARAPLATIN 15 0.9 (12 ) 1.2 145 1.2 PLAVIX* 673 0.8 816 0.9 781 0.6 PRAVACHOL 258 0.8 433 1.0 318 0.6 REYATAZ 92 0.8 99 0.9 75 0.6 SUSTIVA 103 0.8 103 0.8 95 0.7 TEQUIN 38 0.7 39 0.9 31 0.7 VIDEX/VIDEX EC 10 1.2 25 0.9 27 0.6 ZERIT 26 0.8 31 0.9 34 0.7 ** Less than 0.1 months on hand. At December 31, 2004, the estimated value of CEFZIL inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $1.6 million. Prescriptions for CEFZIL, an antibiotic, are typically higher in the winter months in the U.S. As a result, the Companys U.S. wholesalers built higher inventories of the product in the fourth quarter of 2004 to meet that expected higher demand. At March 31, 2005, the Company had worked down U.S. wholesaler inventory levels of CEFZIL to less than one month on hand, and remained at less than one month on hand in subsequent quarters. At December 31, 2004, the estimated value of GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise products inventory (GLUCOPHAGE* XR, GLUCOPHAGE* IR, GLUCOVANCE* and METAGLIP*) in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $1.6 million. As with all products, the months on hand estimate for the GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise products is an average of months on hand for all stock keeping units (SKUs) of the product group. The increase in months on hand of the GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise products at the end of the fourth quarter of 2004 to above one month on hand resulted primarily from the purchase by wholesalers of certain SKUs. After giving effect to these purchases, the increased months on hand for these SKUs were less than one month on hand. However, when the increased months on hand for these SKUs were averaged with all SKUs for the GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise products, the aggregate estimated months on hand exceeded one month. At March 31, 2005, the estimated value of GLUCOPHAGE* Franchise products inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel had been worked down to approximately one month on hand, and has been worked down to, and remained at, less than one month on hand in subsequent quarters. In October 2004, the U.S. pediatric exclusivity period for PARAPLATIN (carboplatin) expired. The resulting entry of multiple generic competitors for PARAPLATIN led to a significant decrease in demand for PARAPLATIN, which in turn led to the months on hand of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeding one month at September 30, 2004, December 31, 2004 and September 30, 2005. The estimated value of PARAPLATIN inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over one month on hand was approximately $6.6 million at September 30, 2004, $6.0 million at December 31, 2004 and $0.7 million at September 30, 2005. During this time, the Company continued to monitor PARAPLATIN sales with the intention of working down wholesaler inventory levels to less than one month on hand, and by December 31, 2005, the Company had worked down U.S. wholesaler inventory levels of PARAPLATIN to less than one month on hand. At March 31 and September 30, 2005, the estimated value of VIDEX/VIDEX EC inventory in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel exceeded one month on hand by approximately $1.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. As a result of generic competition in the U.S. commencing in the fourth quarter of 2004, demand for VIDEX/VIDEX EC decreased significantly. During this time, the Company continued to monitor VIDEX/VIDEX EC sales with the intention of working down wholesaler inventory levels to less than one month on hand, and by December 31, 2005, the Company had worked down U.S. wholesaler inventory levels of VIDEX/VIDEX EC to less than one month on hand. For all products other than ERBITUX*, the Company determines the above months on hand estimates by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel by the estimated amount of out movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days, all calculated as described below. Factors that may influence the Companys estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, such estimates are calculated using third party data, which represent their own record keeping processes and as such, may also reflect estimates. 50 The Company maintains inventory management agreements (IMAs) with most of its U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers, which account for nearly 100% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, the Companys three largest wholesaler customers provide the Company with weekly information with respect to inventory levels of product on hand and the amount of out movement of products. These three wholesalers currently account for over 90% of total gross sales of U.S. pharmaceutical products. The inventory information received from these wholesalers excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as retailers and hospitals, and excludes goods in transit to such wholesalers. The Company uses the information provided by these three wholesalers as of the Friday closest to quarter end to calculate the amount of inventory on hand for these wholesalers at the applicable quarter end. This amount is then increased by the Companys estimate of goods in transit to these wholesalers as of the applicable Friday, which have not been reflected in the weekly data provided by the wholesalers. Under the Companys revenue recognition policy, sales are recorded when substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred, which in the U.S. Pharmaceutical business is generally when product is shipped. In such cases, goods in transit to a wholesaler are owned by the applicable wholesaler and, accordingly, are reflected in the calculation of inventories in the wholesaler distribution channel. The Company estimates the amount of goods in transit by using information provided by these wholesalers with respect to their open orders as of the applicable Friday and the Companys records of sales to these wholesalers with respect to such open orders. The Company determines the out movement of a product from these wholesalers over a period of 31 days by using the most recent four weeks of out movement of a product as provided by these wholesalers and extrapolating such amount to a 31 day basis. The Company estimates inventory levels on hand and out movements for its U.S. Pharmaceutical businesss wholesaler customers other than the three largest wholesalers for each product based on the assumption that such amounts bear the same relationship to the three largest wholesalers inventory levels and out movements for such product as the percentage of aggregate sales for all products to these other wholesalers in the applicable quarter bears to aggregate sales for all products to the Companys three largest wholesalers in such quarter. Finally, the Company considers whether any adjustments are necessary to these extrapolated amounts based on such factors as historical sales of individual products made to such other wholesalers and third party market research data related to prescription trends and patient demand. In addition, the Company receives inventory information from these other wholesalers on a selective basis for certain key products. The Companys U.S. pharmaceuticals business, through the IMAs discussed above, has arrangements with substantially all of its direct wholesaler customers that allow the Company to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and require those wholesalers to maintain inventory levels at approximately one month or less of their demand. In the second and third quarters of 2005, the Company negotiated amendments to its IMAs with its three largest wholesalers. The amendments extended the original agreements through December 31, 2005 and established lower limits than the original agreements for inventory levels of Company pharmaceutical products held by the wholesalers. In December 2005, the Company reached two year IMAs in principle with its three largest U.S. wholesalers, which provide the same lower limits of wholesaler inventory levels as the IMA extensions previously negotiated. To help maintain the product quality of the Companys biologic oncology product, ERBITUX*, the product is shipped only to end users and not to other intermediaries (such as wholesalers) to hold for later sales. During 2004 and through May 2005, one of the Companys wholesalers provided warehousing, packing and shipping services for ERBITUX*. Such wholesaler held ERBITUX* inventory on consignment and, under the Companys revenue recognition policy, the Company recognized revenue when such inventory was shipped by the wholesaler to the end user. The above estimates of months on hand for the three months ended March 31, 2005, were calculated by dividing the inventories of ERBITUX* held by the wholesaler for its own account as reported by the wholesaler as of the end of the quarter by the Companys net sales for the last calendar month of the quarter. The inventory levels reported by the wholesaler are a product of the wholesalers own record keeping process. Upon the divestiture of OTN in May 2005, the Company discontinued the consignment arrangement with the wholesaler and thereafter did not have ERBITUX* consignment inventory. Following the divestiture, the Company sells ERBITUX* to intermediaries (such as specialty oncology distributors) and ships ERBITUX* directly to the end users of the product who are the customers of those intermediaries. The Company recognizes revenue upon such shipment consistent with its revenue recognition policy. Accordingly, subsequent to June 30, 2005, there was no ERBITUX* inventory held by wholesalers. As previously disclosed, for the Companys Pharmaceuticals business outside of the United States, Nutritionals and Other Health Care business units around the world, the Company has significantly more direct customers, limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding outmovement information and the reliability of third party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, the Company relies on a variety of methods to estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand for these business units. The following table, which was posted on the Companys website and furnished on Form 8 K, sets forth for each of the Companys key products sold by the reporting segments listed below, the net sales of the applicable product for each of the four quarters ended March 31, 2005 through December 31, 2005, and the estimated number of months on hand of the applicable product in the direct customer distribution channel for the reporting segment as of the end of each of the four quarters. The estimates of months 51 on hand for key products described below for the International Pharmaceuticals reporting segment are based on data collected for all of the Companys significant business units outside of the United States. Also described further below is information on non key product(s) where the amount of inventory on hand at direct customers is more than approximately one month and the impact is not de minimis. For the other reporting segments, estimates are based on data collected for the United States and all significant business units outside of the United States. December 31, 2005 September 30, 2005 Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Months on Hand Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Months on Hand International Pharmaceuticals ABILIFY* (total revenue) $ 49 0.6 $ 46 0.8 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 109 0.6 104 0.5 BUFFERIN* 36 0.7 31 0.6 CAPOTEN 38 0.8 38 0.9 DAFALGAN 34 1.2 34 1.3 EFFERALGAN 74 1.0 66 1.1 MAXIPIME 48 0.8 40 0.7 MONOPRIL 43 0.9 48 1.0 PARAPLATIN 33 0.8 33 0.6 PERFALGAN 43 0.6 38 0.7 PLAVIX* 155 0.6 147 0.6 PRAVACHOL 218 0.8 230 0.8 REYATAZ 78 0.6 71 0.9 SUSTIVA 68 0.6 69 0.6 TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) 176 0.8 171 0.5 VIDEX/VIDEX EC 34 0.9 34 0.9 ZERIT 26 0.7 27 0.7 Nutritionals ENFAMIL 277 1.0 230 0.9 NUTRAMIGEN 48 1.1 44 1.1 Other Health Care ConvaTec Ostomy 145 1.0 139 0.9 Wound Therapeutics 112 0.9 104 0.8 Medical Imaging CARDIOLITE 100 1.0 106 0.8 Consumer Medicines EXCEDRIN* N/A N/A 29 N/A 52 June 30, 2005 March 31, 2005 Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Months on Hand Net Sales (Dollars in Millions) Months on Hand International Pharmaceuticals ABILIFY* (total revenue) $ 40 0.6 $ 27 0.6 AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* 101 0.4 94 0.4 BUFFERIN* 32 1.0 26 0.5 CAPOTEN 42 0.8 42 0.8 DAFALGAN 33 0.8 40 1.3 EFFERALGAN 55 0.5 88 0.9 MAXIPIME 52 0.8 46 0.7 MONOPRIL 52 0.7 56 0.6 PARAPLATIN 34 0.6 29 0.6 PERFALGAN 42 0.6 42 0.5 PLAVIX* 145 0.5 141 0.7 PRAVACHOL 272 0.7 262 0.7 REYATAZ 85 0.8 57 0.6 SUSTIVA 70 0.6 70 0.5 TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) 182 0.5 201 0.5 VIDEX/VIDEX EC 38 0.9 39 0.8 ZERIT 33 0.6 33 0.6 Nutritionals ENFAMIL 250 0.9 235 0.9 NUTRAMIGEN 47 1.0 44 1.0 Other Health Care ConvaTec Ostomy 139 0.9 127 0.9 Wound Therapeutics 103 0.8 97 0.8 Medical Imaging CARDIOLITE 108 0.7 102 0.7 Consumer Medicines EXCEDRIN* 39 1.5 38 1.6 The above months on hand information represents the Companys estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers divided by the expected demand for the applicable product. Expected demand is the estimated ultimate patient/consumer demand calculated based on estimated end user consumption or direct customer out movement data over the most recent 31 day period or other reasonable period. Factors that may affect the Companys estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price increases, new product launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. The Company relies on a variety of methods to calculate months on hand for these reporting segments. Where available, the Company relies on information provided by third parties to determine estimates of aggregate product level inventory on hand at direct customers and expected demand. For the reporting segments listed above, however, the Company has limited information on direct customer product level inventory, end user consumption and direct customer out movement data. Further, the quality of third party information, where available, varies widely. In some circumstances, such as the case with new products or seasonal products, such historical end user consumption or out movement information may not be available or applicable. In such cases, the Company uses estimated prospective demand. In cases where direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out movement data do not exist or are otherwise not available, the Company has developed a variety of other methodologies to calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third party market research data related to prescription trends and end user demand. As of December 31, 2005, September 30, 2005 and March 31, 2005, DAFALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.2, 1.3 and 1.3 months of inventory on hand, respectively, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing DAFALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product. As of September 30, 2005, EFFERALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand, at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due primarily to private pharmacists purchasing EFFERALGAN approximately once every eight weeks and the seasonality of the product. 53 As of December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, NUTRAMIGEN and PROSOBEE, infant nutritional products sold principally in the United States, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand at the end of December 2005 is due primarily to holiday stocking by retailers and at the end of September 2005 is due primarily to the impact of retailers holding higher levels of inventory in response to Hurricane Katrina. The Company plans to continue to monitor sales of NUTRAMIGEN and PROSOBEE with the intention of working down wholesaler inventory levels to less than one month on hand. As of June 30, 2005 and March 31, 2005, EXCEDRIN*, an analgesic product sold principally in the U.S., had approximately 1.5 months and 1.6 months, respectively, of inventory on hand at direct customers. The level of inventory on hand is due to the customary practice of direct customers holding within their warehouses and stores one and one half to two months of product on hand. Inventory on hand and percentage change in demand data as of and for the month of September 30, 2005, respectively, is not available for EXCEDRIN*, which was included in the third quarter 2005 sale of the Companys Consumer Medicines business. The Company continuously seeks to improve the quality of its estimates of months on hand of inventories held by its direct customers including thorough review of its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and review and analysis of its own and third parties data used in such calculations. The Company expects that it will continue to review and refine its methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and analyze its own and third parties data in such calculations. The Company also has and will continue to take steps to expedite the receipt and processing of data for the non U.S. Pharmaceuticals business. HEALTH CARE GROUP Nutritionals The composition of the change in Nutritional sales is as follows: Analysis of % Change Total Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange 2005 vs. 2004 10% 7% 2% 1% 2004 vs. 2003 (1)% (7)% 6% Key Nutritional product lines and their sales, representing 95%, 94% and 84% of total Nutritional sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are as follows: (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 % Change 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 Infant Formulas $ 1,576 $ 1,405 $ 1,284 12 % 9 % ENFAMIL 992 859 808 15 % 6 % Toddler/Childrens Nutritionals 529 468 421 13 % 11 % Worldwide Nutritional sales increased 10%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact and a 2% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, to $2,205 million in 2005 from 2004. In 2004, Worldwide Nutritional sales were $2,001 million, a decrease of 1%, including a 10% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, from $2,023 million in 2003. In the first quarter of 2004, the Company divested its Adult Nutritional business. International sales increased 12%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact and a 1% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, to $1,135 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL, ENFAGROW and toddler and childrens nutritional products. In 2004, international sales increased 11%, including a 4% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, to $1,010 million from $910 million in 2003, primarily due to the increased sales of infant formula and childrens nutritional products. U.S. sales increased 8%, including a 3% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, to $1,070 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to increased sales of ENFAMIL. In 2004, U.S. sales decreased 11%, including a 14% unfavorable impact from the divestiture of the Adult Nutritional business, to $991 million from $1,113 million in 2003. Sales of ENFAMIL, the Companys best selling infant formula, increased 15%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $992 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to strong sales growth and the launch of ENFAMIL GENTLEASE LIPIL infant formula in August 2005. In 2004, ENFAMIL sales increased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $859 million from $808 million in 2003, primarily due to an increase in international sales. 54 Other Health Care The Other Health Care segment includes ConvaTec and the Medical Imaging business. The composition of the change in Other Health Care segment sales is as follows: Total Change Analysis of % Change Volume Price Foreign Exchange 2005 vs. 2004 (4)% (4)% (1)% 1% 2004 vs. 2003 13% 7% 1% 5% Other Health Care sales by business and their key products for the years ended December 31, were as follows: (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 % Change 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 ConvaTec $ 992 $ 954 $ 843 4 % 13 % Ostomy 550 551 512 8 % Wound Therapeutics 416 391 319 6 % 23 % Medical Imaging 602 589 508 2 % 16 % CARDIOLITE 416 406 324 2 % 25 % Consumer Medicines 154 272 254 (43 )% 7 % Worldwide ConvaTec sales increased 4%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $992 million in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to the increase in worldwide sales of wound therapeutic products. Sales of wound therapeutic products increased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $416 million in 2005 from $391 million in 2004, primarily due to increased sales of AQUACEL. Ostomy sales remained constant at $550 million in 2005, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact. In 2004, ConvaTec sales increased 13%, including an 8% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $954 million from $843 million in 2003, primarily due to a 23% increase in worldwide sales of wound therapeutic products. Worldwide Medical Imaging sales increased 2% to $602 million in 2005 from 2004. Sales of CARDIOLITE (Kit for the Preparation of Technetium Tc99m Sestamibi for Injection) increased 2% to $416 million in 2005 from $406 million in 2004, primarily due to increased demand. In 2004, Medical Imaging sales increased 16%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, to $589 million from $508 million, driven by increased sales of CARDIOLITE. This increase was partially due to a change in the timing of revenue recognition as a result of new distribution agreements entered into in January 2004. Geographic Areas In general, the Companys products are available in most countries in the world. The largest markets are in the United States, France, Japan, Spain, Canada, Italy, Germany and Mexico. The Companys sales by geographic areas were as follows: (Dollars in Millions) % Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 United States $ 10,461 $ 10,613 $ 10,656 (1 )% % of Total 54 % 55 % 57 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,136 5,470 4,985 (6 )% 10 % % of Total 27 % 28 % 27 % Other Western Hemisphere 1,592 1,425 1,333 12 % 7 % % of Total 8 % 7 % 7 % Pacific 2,018 1,872 1,679 8 % 11 % % of Total 11 % 10 % 9 % Total $ 19,207 $ 19,380 $ 18,653 (1 )% 4 % Sales in the United States decreased 1% in 2005, as a result of lower sales of PARAPLATIN and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise due to the continuing impact of earlier exclusivity losses, and PRAVACHOL, due to lower demand resulting from increased competition. This decrease in sales was mostly offset by increased sales of growth drivers including PLAVIX*, ABILIFY*, ERBITUX* and REYATAZ, and strong sales growth of ENFAMIL. In 2004, sales in the United States remained constant with growth in prescription demand for key brands including PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, and SUSTIVA, and newer products including ABILIFY*, REYATAZ, and ERBITUX*, offset by lower sales of other products as a result of exclusivity losses for MONOPRIL, PARAPLATIN, and the GLUCOPHAGE* franchise. Sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa decreased 6%, including a 1% favorable foreign exchange impact, as a result of sales decline of TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel), due to increased generic competition, and PRAVACHOL, due to exclusivity loss in select markets, including the UK and the Netherlands. This decrease in sales was partially offset by increased sales in major European markets of 55 REYATAZ and ABILIFY*, which were both launched in Europe in the second quarter of 2004. In 2004, sales increased 10%, including an 11% favorable foreign exchange impact, as a result of sales decline of PRAVACHOL, due to exclusivity loss in select markets, including Germany and the UK, and TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel), where generic competition in a majority of the major European markets began in the second quarter of 2004. This decrease in sales was mostly offset by increased sales of PLAVIX* in Germany and Spain, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Italy and Spain, and SUSTIVA in the majority of the major markets. Sales in the Other Western Hemisphere countries increased 12%, including a 7% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX* in Canada and Mexico, REYATAZ in Brazil and Canada, and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Canada. In 2004, sales increased 7%, including a 2% favorable foreign exchange impact, primarily due to increased sales of PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Canada. Sales in the Pacific region increased 8%, as a result of increased sales of TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) in Japan, and ENFAGROW and ENFAMIL in China. In 2004, sales increased 11%, including a 5% favorable foreign exchange impact, as a result of increased sales of TAXOL&reg; (paclitaxel) and PARAPLATIN in Japan, and PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in Australia. Expenses (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 % Change 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 Cost of products sold $ 5,928 $ 5,989 $ 5,406 (1 )% 11 % % of net sales 30.9 % 30.9 % 29.0 % Marketing, selling and administrative $ 5,106 $ 5,016 $ 4,620 2 % 9 % % of net sales 26.6 % 25.9 % 24.7 % Advertising and product promotion $ 1,476 $ 1,411 $ 1,415 5 % % of net sales 7.7 % 7.3 % 7.6 % Research and development $ 2,746 $ 2,500 $ 2,279 10 % 10 % % of net sales 14.3 % 12.9 % 12.2 % Acquired in process research and development $ $ 63 $ (100 )% % of net sales 0.3 % Provision for restructuring, net $ 32 $ 104 $ 26 (69 )% ** % of net sales 0.1 % 0.5 % 0.1 % Litigation charges, net $ 269 $ 420 $ 199 (36 )% 111 % % of net sales 1.4 % 2.2 % 1.1 % Gain on sale of business $ (569 ) $ (320 ) $ (78 )% % of net sales (3.0 )% (1.7 )% Equity in net income of affiliates $ (334 ) $ (273 ) $ (151 ) (22 )% (81 )% % of net sales (1.7 )% (1.4 )% (0.8 )% Other expense, net $ 37 $ 52 $ 179 (29 )% (71 )% % of net sales 0.2 % 0.3 % 1.0 % Total Expenses, net $ 14,691 $ 14,962 $ 13,973 (2 )% 7 % % of net sales 76.5 % 77.2 % 74.9 % ** Change is in excess if 200% Cost of products sold, as a percentage of sales, were 30.9% in 2005 and 2004, and 29.0% in 2003. In 2005, the unfavorable impact on gross margins resulting from the change in the U.S. pharmaceutical sales mix was offset by $76 million of net litigation charges recorded in 2004. In 2004, the increase over 2003 was due to the unfavorable impact of U.S. pharmaceutical sales mix due to the impact of generic competition in the U.S. for the GLUCHOPHAGE* franchise and PARAPLATIN, and the launch of lower margin ERBITUX*, partially offset by sales growth of ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and PLAVIX*. Gross margins in 2004 were also negatively impacted by $76 million of net litigation charges and higher accelerated depreciation charges compared with 2003. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 26.6% in 2005, 25.9% in 2004, and 24.7% in 2003. In 2005, marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 2% to $5,106 million from 2004, primarily due to higher legal costs and higher pension expenses, reflecting increased amortization of unrecognized net losses as well as change in actuarial assumptions, partially offset by lower sales force expenses resulting from a focus on specialists and high value primary care physicians. Marketing, selling and administrative expenses increased 9% to $5,016 million in 2004 from $4,620 million in 2003, primarily due to increased sales and marketing support for newer products, including additional sales representatives supporting ABILIFY*. In addition, the increase was also related to costs associated with the compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and unfavorable foreign exchange driven by the strengthening of the euro. 56 Advertising and product promotion expenditures increased 5% to $1,476 million as compared to 2004, primarily due to increased investments in direct to consumer marketing campaigns for PLAVIX* and ABILIFY*, increased costs associated with pre launch activities for ORENCIA and the launch of BARACLUDE, partially offset by lower spending on mature products. In 2004, advertising and promotion expenses remained relatively constant at $1,411 million as compared to $1,415 million in 2003, with increased investments in ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and PLAVIX* offset by lower spending on in line and non exclusive products. The Companys investment in research and development totaled $2,746 million in 2005, an increase of 10% over 2004 and an increase in 2004 of 10% over 2003. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses were 14.3% in 2005 compared with 12.9% in 2004 and 12.2% in 2003. In 2005, the increase in research and development expenses reflects continued investments in late stage compounds. Research and development costs also included $72 million of charges primarily related to milestone payments for licensing agreements in 2005, $58 million of charges consisting primarily of upfront and milestone payments in 2004 and $102 million of charges related to the upfront payments for licensing agreements in 2003. In 2005, research and development spending dedicated to pharmaceutical products increased to 16.5% of Pharmaceuticals sales compared with 14.7% in 2004 and 14.0% in 2003. Acquired in process research and development of $63 million in 2004 was related to the purchase of Acordis, a UK based company that is expected to strengthen the Companys leadership position in wound therapeutics. For additional information on the acquisition, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Restructuring programs have been implemented to downsize, realign and streamline operations in order to increase productivity, reduce operating expenses and to rationalize the Companys manufacturing network, research facilities, and the sales and marketing organizations. Actions under the 2005 restructuring program are expected to be complete by 2006 while actions under the 2004 and 2003 restructuring programs were substantially completed at December 31, 2005. As a result of these actions, the Company expects the future annual benefit to earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes to be approximately $77 million, $186 million and $64 million for the 2005, 2004 and 2003 programs, respectively. For additional information on restructuring, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Restructuring. Litigation charges, net of settlement income, were $269 million in 2005, compared to $420 million in 2004 and $199 million in 2003. The $269 million charge in 2005 consisted of increases to the reserves of $590 million for liabilities primarily related to private litigations and governmental investigations and partially offset by insurance recoveries of $321 million. The $420 million in 2004 consisted of $336 million related to private litigation and governmental investigations related to wholesaler inventory issues and accounting matters, $50 million related to the PLATINOL litigation settlement and $34 million related to pharmaceutical pricing and sales practices. In 2003, the Company established reserves for liabilities in the total amount of $250 million, comprised of $150 million in relation to wholesaler inventory issues and certain other accounting matters, and $100 million in relation to pharmaceutical pricing and sales and marketing practices. In addition, the Company recorded charges of $31 million for other litigation matters and recognized income of $82 million. The $82 million of income consists primarily of $30 million of income for patent defense cost reimbursement, $27 million in litigation settlement income and $21 million from the settlement of anti trust litigation involving vitamin manufacturers. For additional information on litigation, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. The gain on sale of business of $569 million ($370 million net of tax) in 2005 was related to the sale of the U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business and related assets. The gain on sale of business of $320 million ($198 million net of tax) in 2004 was related to the sale of the Adult Nutritional business. For additional information on these transactions, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures. Equity in net income of affiliates for 2005 was $334 million, compared with $273 million and $151 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Equity in net income of affiliates is principally related to the Companys joint venture with Sanofi and investment in ImClone. In 2005, the $61 million increase in equity in net income of affiliates from 2004 primarily reflects an increase in net income in the Sanofi joint venture, partially offset by a net loss from the investment in ImClone. The $122 million increase in 2004 from 2003 primarily reflects an increase in net income in the Sanofi joint venture. For additional information on equity in net income of affiliates, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Investments. Other expenses, net of income, were $37 million, $52 million and $179 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Other expenses include net interest expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, income from third party contract manufacturing, royalty income and expense, deferred income and debt retirement costs. The $15 million decrease in other expenses in 2005 from 2004 was primarily due to deferred income recognized from the termination of the collaborative agreement for muraglitazar, partially offset by debt retirement costs in connection with the repurchase of the $2.5 billion Notes due 2006 and higher net foreign exchange losses. The favorability in 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to higher income from third party contract manufacturing, lower net interest expense and lower net foreign exchange losses. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 7. Other Expense, Net. 57 During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded several (income)/expense items that affected the comparability of results of the periods presented herein, which are set forth in the following table. For a discussion of these items, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Investments, Note 3. Restructuring and Other Items, Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures, Note 5. Discontinued Operations and Note 20. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Year ended December 31, 2005 (Dollars in Millions) Cost ofproductssold Researchanddevelopment Provision forrestructuring Gain on sale of business Litigationsettlementexpense / (income) Other(income) /expense, net Total Litigation Matters Private litigations and governmentalinvestigations $ $ $ $ $ 558 $ $ 558 Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation 12 12 ERISA liability and other matters 20 20 Insurance recoveries (321 ) (321 ) 269 269 Other: Gain on sale of equity investment (27 ) (27 ) Loss on sale of fixed assets 18 18 Accelerated depreciation and assetimpairment 96 14 110 Gain on sale of Consumer Medicinesbusinesses (569 ) (569 ) Upfront and milestone payments 44 44 Debt retirement costs 69 69 Downsizing and streamlining ofworldwide operations 1 14 32 47 Termination of muraglitazar agreement 5 (143 ) (138 ) $ 102 $ 72 $ 32 $ (569 ) $ 269 $ (83 ) (177 ) Income taxes on items above 126 Adjustment to taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings (135 ) Increase to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ (186 ) Year ended December 31, 2004 (Dollars in Millions) Cost ofproductssold Research anddevelopment Acquiredin processresearch anddevelopment Gain onsale ofbusiness Provision forrestructuringand otheritems, net Litigationsettlementexpense /(income) Otherexpense,net Total Litigation Matters: Private litigation and governmental investigations $ $ $ $ $ $ 336 $ $ 336 Product liability 75 11 86 Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation 34 34 Commercial litigation 26 26 Anti trust litigation 50 50 Product liability insurance recovery (25 ) (25 ) 76 420 11 507 Other: Gain on sale of Adult Nutritional business (320 ) (320 ) Accelerated depreciation 100 3 4 107 Downsizing and streamlining ofworldwide operations 1 104 105 Upfront and milestone payments 55 55 Acordis IPR&D write off 63 63 $ 177 $ 58 $ 63 $ (320 ) $ 104 $ 420 $ 15 517 Income taxes on items above (130 ) Deferred taxes in anticipation ofrepatriation of foreign earnings 575 Other tax adjustments 10 Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 972 58 Year ended December 31, 2003 (Dollars in Millions) Cost ofproductssold Research anddevelopment Provision forrestructuringand otheritems, net Litigationsettlementexpense /(income) Total Litigation Matters: Private litigation and governmental investigations $ $ $ $ 150 $ 150 Product liability 15 15 Pharmaceutical pricing and sales litigation 100 100 Litigation settlement income (66 ) (66 ) 199 199 Other: Upfront payments for licensing agreements 102 102 Accelerated depreciation and asset impairment charges 64 64 Termination benefits and other exit costs 53 53 Relocation and retention 3 13 16 Change in estimates (40 ) (40 ) $ 67 $ 102 $ 26 $ 199 394 Income taxes on items above (36 ) Reduction to Net Earnings from Continuing Operations $ 358 Earnings Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes Earnings From Continuing Operations Before Minority Interest and Income Taxes % Change (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 2005 to 2004 2004 to 2003 Pharmaceuticals $ 3,698 $ 4,301 $ 4,414 (14 )% (3 )% Nutritionals 648 586 542 11 % 8 % Other Health Care 492 529 363 (7 )% 46 % Total segments 4,838 5,416 5,319 (11 )% 2 % Corporate/Other (322 ) (998 ) (639 ) 68 % (56 )% Total $ 4,516 $ 4,418 $ 4,680 2 % (6 )% In 2005, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes increased 2% to $4,516 million from $4,418 million in 2004. The increase was primarily a result of growth in the Nutritionals segment and the net impact of items that affected the comparability of results as discussed above, partially offset by lower sales and gross margin of pharmaceutical products, primarily due to exclusivity losses and increased spending on research and development, primarily for late stage pharmaceutical compounds. In 2004, earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes decreased 6% to $4,418 million from $4,680 million in 2003. Contributing to the decrease in 2004 were increases in costs of products sold as a result of a change in product mix, products losing exclusivity, increased investment in research and development, and the net impact of items that affected the comparability of results as discussed above, partially offset by growth in the Other Health Care segment and higher international sales. Pharmaceuticals Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in 2005 were $3,698 million. The decrease in 2005 from 2004 was primarily due to lower sales and gross margin, primarily due to exclusivity losses, higher advertising and product promotion investments behind growth drivers and increased spending on research and development. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes of $4,301 million in 2004 decreased from $4,414 million in 2003 primarily driven by gross margin erosion due to generic competition and product mix, additional sales representatives supporting ABILIFY*, increased spending on research and development, higher non clinical grants and litigation settlement income in 2003, partially offset by higher sales. HEALTH CARE GROUP Nutritionals Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in 2005 were $648 million. The increase in 2005 from 2004 was primarily due to increased worldwide sales of infant formula products and international sales of toddler and childrens nutritional products, partially offset by increased investments in advertising and product promotion, and research and development programs. Earnings 59 before minority interest and income taxes increased to $586 million in 2004 from $542 million in 2003, primarily due to increased global infant formula sales, a price increase in the infant formula line, favorable manufacturing variances and tight operating expense management. Other Health Care Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in 2005 were $492 million. The decrease in 2005 from 2004 was primarily due to the sale of the U.S. and Canadian Consumer Medicines business and related assets in the third quarter of 2005 and higher spending on research and development, partially offset by sales growth in the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses. Earnings before minority interest and income taxes in the Other Health Care segment increased to $529 million in 2004 from $363 million in 2003, primarily due to sales growth in the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, in addition to favorable pricing and product mix. Corporate/Other Earnings/(loss) before minority interest and income taxes in 2005 were a loss of $322 million. The decrease in 2005 from 2004 was primarily due to the increase on the gain on the sales of businesses/product lines, deferred income recognized from the termination of the collaborative agreement for muraglitazar and a reduction of litigation charges, net. Earnings/(loss) before minority interest and income taxes increased to $998 million in 2004 from $639 million in 2003, primarily due to an increase in litigation charges, net; unfavorable foreign exchange driven by the strengthening of the euro; higher pension expenses, reflecting increased amortization of unrecognized net losses as well change in actuarial assumptions; an increase in downsizing and streamlining of worldwide operations; and an acquired in process research and development charge in 2004. These increases were partially offset by the increase on the gain on the sale of businesses/product lines. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before minority interest and income taxes was 20.6% in 2005 compared with 34.4% in 2004 and 25.8% in 2003. The lower effective tax rate in 2005 is due primarily to a 2004 charge of approximately $575 million for estimated deferred income taxes related to the repatriation of approximately $9 billion in special dividends from the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA), a 2004 charge related to the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain charitable contributions, a tax benefit in 2005 associated with the release of certain tax contingency reserves resulting from the settlement of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the years 1998 through 2001, and a change in estimate in 2005 related to the reduction of the aforementioned 2004 AJCA deferred income tax charge, partially offset by lower estimated foreign tax credits in 2005. The increase in the 2004 effective tax rate over the 2003 effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the aforementioned 2004 AJCA deferred tax charge of $575 million, the aforementioned establishment of a valuation allowance against certain charitable contributions in 2004, an increase in estimates for contingent tax matters, partially offset by the favorable resolution of certain tax refund claims, increased foreign tax credits, and in 2003, the effect of certain litigation reserves as non deductible. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company disclosed that it anticipated repatriating approximately $9 billion in special dividends in 2005 and recorded a $575 million provision for deferred income taxes pursuant to the AJCA as enacted and other pending matters. The Company repatriated approximately $6.2 billion from foreign subsidiaries in the first quarter of 2005 and repatriated the remaining balance of approximately $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005. The Company expects that approximately all of the $9 billion repatriated in 2005 will qualify as special dividends subject to finalization of its 2005 U.S. federal income tax return and any related tax examinations by the IRS. The Company has used and expects to continue to use the special dividends in accordance with requirements established by the AJCA and the U.S. Treasury Department. During the second quarter of 2005, the U.S. Treasury Department issued AJCA related guidance clarifying that the gross up for foreign taxes associated with the special dividends also qualifies for the 5.25% tax rate established by the AJCA. As a result of this guidance, the Company reduced the $575 million provision by recording a benefit of approximately $135 million in its tax provision for 2005. Except for earnings associated with the special dividends discussed above, U.S. income taxes have not been provided on the balance of unremitted earnings of non U.S. subsidiaries, since the Company has invested or expects to invest such earnings permanently offshore. The Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets related to U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately $975 million and U.S. research tax credit carryforwards of approximately $120 million, which expire in varying amounts beginning in 2012. Realization of the foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. The Company anticipates increasing its level of domestic profitability over time by undertaking actions such as increasing its biologics manufacturing capacity in the U.S. While increasing domestic profitability will likely cause the Companys effective tax rate to increase, it will also further enhance the Companys ability to utilize its foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards. The amount of foreign tax credit and research tax credit carryforwards considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if the outcome of the PLAVIX* litigation in the U.S. is unfavorable, and or if the timing of generic competition for PLAVIX* were to be accelerated. If such events occur, the Company may need to record significant additional valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets. For additional information on PLAVIX* litigation, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and 
 
