Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY About the Company Bristol Myers Squibb Company (BMS, the Company or Bristol Myers Squibb) is a worldwide pharmaceutical and related health care products company whose mission is to extend and enhance human life by providing the highest quality pharmaceutical and related health care products. The Company is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals and related health care products. The Company has three reportable segments Pharmaceuticals, Nutritionals and Other Health Care. The Pharmaceuticals segment is comprised of the global pharmaceutical and international consumer medicines business and accounted for approximately 77% of the Companys 2006 net sales. The Nutritionals segment consists of Mead Johnson Nutritionals (Mead Johnson), primarily an infant formula and childrens nutritionals business, which accounted for approximately 13% of the Companys 2006 net sales. The Other Health Care segment consists of the ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, which accounted for approximately 10% of the Companys 2006 net sales. 2006 Financial Highlights The Company has made progress with its long range strategy, despite some significant challenges that occurred during the year, including the at risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate product, which adversely impacted PLAVIX* sales, the loss of exclusivity of PRAVACHOL in the United States (U.S.) and in certain European markets, and an increase in litigation reserves. The Company launched several important products in 2006, including ORENCIA, SPRYCEL and with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead), ATRIPLA*. ORENCIA and SPRYCEL continue to gain market share and, along with double digit sales growth in 2006 for ABILIFY*, REYATAZ, ERBITUX*, the SUSTIVA Franchise and BARACLUDE, are key components of a strong product line for long term growth. The Company continues to invest in its late stage compounds and the development of new products. With the growing importance of biologics, in February 2007, the Company completed the land purchase for its major new biologics facility in Devens, Massachusetts, along with expansion of existing facilities in Syracuse, New York, and Manati, Puerto Rico. Construction on the Devens facility is scheduled to begin in early 2007. Worldwide net sales from continuing operations for 2006 decreased 7% to $17.9 billion compared to 2005. Worldwide net sales of the products that the Company views as growth drivers increased by 6% in 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. Excluding PLAVIX*, worldwide net sales of the other growth drivers increased 32% in 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. Products that the Company considers to be growth drivers are PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, ABILIFY*, REYATAZ and ERBITUX*. Net income was $1.6 billion in 2006 compared with $3.0 billion in 2005. The 2006 results include a $353 million increase in reserves for a pricing and sales litigation settlement and $220 million in early debt retirement costs. The 2005 results included $370 million gain on the sale of the Consumer Medicines business. PLAVIX* The Companys largest product ranked by net sales is PLAVIX* (clopidogrel bisulfate) with U.S. sales of $2.7 billion in 2006, $3.2 billion in 2005 and $2.8 billion in 2004. The composition of matter patent for PLAVIX*, which expires in 2011, is currently the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) and with other generic companies, as well as in other less significant jurisdictions. The Company has previously disclosed certain developments in the pending PLAVIX* litigation with Apotex, including the at risk launch of a generic product by Apotex in August 2006. As noted above, Apotex launched a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product that competes with PLAVIX* on August 8, 2006. On August 31, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Court) granted a motion by the Company and its product partner, Sanofi Aventis (Sanofi), to enjoin further sales of Apotexs generic clopidogrel bisulfate product, but did not order Apotex to recall product from its customers. The Courts grant of a preliminary injunction has been affirmed on appeal. The trial in the underlying patent litigation ended on February 15, 2007 and the Court is expected to rule following post trial briefing. The at risk launch of generic clopidogrel bisulfate had a significant adverse effect on net sales of PLAVIX* in 2006, which the Company estimates to be in a range of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion. In particular, the launch had a significant adverse effect on sales in the third quarter, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $525 million to $600 million, as well as in the fourth quarter of 2006, which the Company estimates to be in the range of $700 million to $750 million. In the first, second, third and fourth quarters 41 of 2006, U.S. net sales for PLAVIX* were $850 million, $988 million, $474 million and $343 million, respectively. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand for clopidogrel bisulfate (branded and generic) increased by 14% in 2006 compared to 2005, while estimated total U.S. prescription demand for branded PLAVIX* decreased by 18% in the same period. The Company expects generic clopidogrel bisulfate that was sold into distribution channels following the Apotex at risk launch in August 2006 will have a residual impact on PLAVIX* net sales and the Companys overall financial results into 2007. The full impact of Apotexs launch of its generic clopidogrel bisulfate product on the Company cannot be reasonably estimated at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the amount of generic product sold by Apotex; whether the Company and Sanofi (the Companies) prevail in the underlying patent litigation; even if the Companies prevail in the pending patent case, the extent to which the launch by Apotex will permanently adversely impact the pricing and prescription demand for PLAVIX*, the amount of damages that would be sought and or recovered by the Companies, and Apotexs ability to pay such damages. Loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX* and or sustained generic competition would be material to the Companys sales of PLAVIX*, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Companys financial condition and liquidity. The Companys U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is also a plaintiff in three additional pending patent infringement lawsuits against Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Inc. and Dr. Reddys Laboratories, LTD (Dr. Reddys), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) and Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cobalt), all related to the U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265 (the 265 Patent). A trial date for the action against Dr. Reddys has not been set. The patent infringement actions against Teva and Cobalt have been stayed pending resolution of the Apotex litigation, and the parties to those actions have agreed to be bound by the outcome of the litigation against Apotex, although Teva and Cobalt can appeal the outcome of the litigation. Each of Dr. Reddys and Teva have filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application (aNDA) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and all exclusivity periods and statutory stay periods under the Hatch Waxman Act have expired, with the exception of the 30 month stay that applies to Teva, which expires on February 27, 2007. Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which the Companies may apply including injunctive relief and damages. The Company continues to believe that the PLAVIX* patents are valid and infringed, and with Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing enforcement of their patent rights in PLAVIX*. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the ongoing patent litigation with Apotex, or of the other PLAVIX* patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX* from other third party generic pharmaceutical companies. However, if Apotex were to prevail at trial, the Company would expect to face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex promptly thereafter. As previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation regarding the proposed settlement of the pending patent PLAVIX* litigation with Apotex. The Company is cooperating fully with the investigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the Company. It is also not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact of the investigation, if any, on the Companys compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of New Jersey (USAO). Also as previously disclosed, the USAO had initiated an investigation conducted by the Monitor under the DPA (Monitor) and the USAO, into corporate governance issues relating to the Companys negotiations of the proposed settlement with Apotex, which included a review of whether there was any violation of Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex under the terms of the previously disclosed Consent Order the Company entered into with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2004 (Consent or SEC Consent). The Monitor has completed his investigation and submitted his report on the investigation to the USAO. The Monitors report did not find any violation of the Consent or the Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement. The Monitor concluded that the Company had violated certain paragraphs of the DPA related to governance matters. The violations cited by the Monitor in his report relate, among other things, to communication failures, including insufficient communications, by the Companys former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and former General Counsel with the Board of Directors (the Board) and with other members of senior management, as well as failure to comply with certain internal Company policies and procedures. The Monitor did not make any findings with respect to whether the Company knowingly and materially breached the DPA or make any recommendations. The USAO has advised the Company that he believes the matters cited in the Monitors report have been fully remediated and, accordingly, that he does not intend to take any action under the DPA with respect to the Monitors report. For additional discussion of legal matters, including the PLAVIX* patent litigation, the Antitrust Division investigation related to the proposed settlement with Apotex and the terms of the DPA and SEC Consent, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, OUTLOOK and SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement below. Business Environment The Company conducts its business primarily within the pharmaceutical industry, which is highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Many competitive factors may significantly affect the Companys sales of its products, including product efficacy, safety, price and cost effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, quality control and quality assurance of its manufacturing operations, and research and development of new products. To successfully compete for business in the health care industry, the Company must demonstrate that its products offer medical benefits, as well as cost advantages. Currently, most of the Companys new product introductions compete with other products already on the market in the same therapeutic category, in addition to potential future competition of new products that competitors may introduce in the future. The Company manufactures branded products, which are priced higher than generic products. Generic competition is one of the Companys leading challenges globally. 42 In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative products commercial value is usually realized during the period that the product has market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss, the Company can lose a major portion of that products sales in a short period of time. Both in the U.S. and internationally, the health care industry is subject to various government imposed regulations that authorize prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on the Companys sales. In the U.S., Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the health care system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. In addition, in January 2006, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act became effective and provides outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the U.S. The Company is assessing the impact this legislation could have on its business, including a potential negative impact on the U.S. Pharmaceuticals business due to further legislative and or regulatory changes that could result in additional pricing pressures or controls. In many markets outside the U.S., the Company operates in environments of government mandated, cost containment programs, or under other regulatory bodies or groups that can exert downward pressure on pricing. Pricing freedom is limited in the United Kingdom (UK), for instance, by the operation of a profit control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products and more than two years can elapse after drug approval before new medicines become available in some national markets. The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that surrounds the health care industry. MCOs seek to reduce health care expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into long term contracts to negotiate discounts with various pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important part of the Companys strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in a MCO formulary and the Company has generally been successful in having its major products included. The Company believes that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation, have had and will continue to have a generally downward pressure on prices. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As biologics become more important to the Companys product portfolio, the Company will continue to make arrangements with third party manufacturers, and will make substantial investments to increase its internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale, including building a new state of the art manufacturing facility for the production of biologics in Devens, Massachusetts, with construction to commence in early 2007. The Company has maintained a competitive position in the market and strives to uphold this position, which is dependent on its success in discovering and developing innovative, cost effective products that serve unmet medical need. The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of these and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Companys results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. For additional discussion of legal matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements Note 21. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies. Strategy The Company continues to execute its strategy for long term growth and is currently on track with its strategic transition. This strategy consists of increasing investments behind growth brands and new specialty products, focusing the Companys research and development programs on products in the pharmaceutical pipeline in disease areas that address significant unmet medical need, aligning sales and marketing emphasis on specialists and high value primary care prescribers, and implementing initiatives designed to achieve and maintain a more efficient cost base. The Companys pharmaceutical portfolio has continued to transition away from products which have lost exclusivity towards growth drivers, recently launched and other products, which include PLAVIX* (clopidogrel bisulfate), ABILIFY* (aripiprazole), AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (irbesartan/irbesartan hydrochlorothiazide), REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate), the SUSTIVA (efavirenz) Franchise, ERBITUX* (cetuximab), ORENCIA (abatacept), BARACLUDE (entecavir) and SPRYCEL (dasatinib). U.S. net sales of these products accounted for 83% of the Companys U.S. pharmaceutical net sales in 2006, compared to 71% in 2005, while worldwide net sales of these products accounted for 59% of the Companys worldwide pharmaceutical net sales in 2006 as compared to 49% in 2005. The Company experienced the last of a series of major anticipated exclusivity losses in 2006, with the market exclusivity expiration of PRAVACHOL in the U.S. and certain markets in Europe, and does not expect any significant new exclusivity losses for the next several years. 43 In order to support the production of the specialty products in the pharmaceutical portfolio including biologics, during 2006, the Board of Directors approved capital expenditures of approximately $750 million for a bulk biologics manufacturing facility in the U.S. In February 2007, the Company completed the land purchase of an 89 acre site to locate its new large scale, expandable multi product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts. Construction is expected to begin in early 2007, and the facility is projected to be operationally complete in 2009. The Company expects to submit the site for regulatory approval in 2010. Commercial production of biologic compounds is anticipated to begin by 2011. In addition, the Company will expand its Manati, Puerto Rico facility, targeted for start up in 2009. The expansion will add new space and renovate existing space for the filling and finishing of the Companys sterile products and biologic compounds, including ORENCIA, and several investigational compounds. Given the Companys current limited capacity for commercial volumes of biologics products, the Company also received approval from the FDA in May 2006 that permits a third party to manufacture ORENCIA at an additional facility. This facility, together with another third party facility, which is pending submission to and approval from the FDA, will support increased production capacity necessary to meet expected long term demand for ORENCIA and initial requirements for other biologics products if they are commercialized. In keeping with its strategy, the Company invested $3.1 billion in research and development, representing a 12% growth rate over 2005. Research and development dedicated to pharmaceutical products, including milestone payments for in licensing and development programs, was $2.8 billion compared to $2.5 billion in 2005. As part of its strategy, the Company is re examining its operating costs to achieve and maintain a more efficient cost base. At the end of 2005, the Company launched an initiative to identify and realize productivity savings. Through this initiative the Company has re examined its operating model to focus resources on high value priorities; simplify and streamline business processes, improve governance and decision making; and build the capabilities to sustain these cost reductions for the long term. The Company is on plan to achieve the goal of realizing a minimum of $500 million in productivity savings in 2007 and an incremental $100 million in 2008 as well as making the Company more productive, efficient and effective. New Product and Pipeline Developments In January 2007, the Company and AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) announced a collaboration to develop and commercialize two investigational compounds, saxagliptin and dapagliflozin, being studied for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The Company discovered both compounds. The collaboration on these compounds is worldwide, except for Japan. Separately, the Company also announced a collaboration with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka) to develop saxagliptin in Japan. In November 2006, the FDA granted Fast Track designation for ipilimumab used in combination with chemotherapy (dacarbazine) in previously untreated metastatic melanoma patients. The FDA also granted Fast Track designation for ipilimumab used as a monotherapy in previously treated metastatic melanoma patients. In October 2006, the Company moved its investigational anti thrombosis compound apixaban into Phase III development. Apixaban is an oral direct factor Xa inhibitor. In October 2006, the Company received FDA approval of a new once daily 300 mg single capsule formulation of REYATAZ for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 1 infection in adults as part of a combination therapy, which can replace two REYATAZ 150 mg capsules in appropriate patients. The Company now has one pill, once daily HIV medicine options available in three drug classes as part of a combination therapy. The Company and Otsuka received approval from the FDA in September 2006 and the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) in October 2006 for ABILIFY* Injection, the first ready to use single dose vial of an atypical antipsychotic to control agitation in adults with schizophrenia and bipolar mania. In August 2006, the Company and Sanofi received approval from both the FDA and the EMEA for an additional indication for PLAVIX* to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of re infarction, stroke or death in patients with acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction. In July 2006, ATRIPLA*, the first ever once daily single tablet three drug regimen for HIV intended as a stand alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals, received approval from the FDA. The product combines SUSTIVA (efavirenz), manufactured by the Company and TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), manufactured by Gilead. The Company, Gilead and Merck & Co., Inc. submitted a Marketing Authorization Approval for ATRIPLA* to the EMEA in October 2006. In addition, the Company and Gilead submitted ATRIPLA* for regulatory approval in Canada in September 2006. 44 In June 2006, the Company received approval for SPRYCEL (dasatinib) from the FDA for the treatment of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia or Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ALL) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC* (imatinib mesylate). SPRYCEL was launched in the U.S. in July 2006. In November 2006, the Company also received approval of SPRYCEL from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the EMEA. The product was launched in Austria, Germany, France, Finland, Sweden and the UK. In February 2007, the Company received approval for SPRYCEL, without the Ph+ALL indication, in Switzerland. In April 2006, the Company launched EMSAM* (selegiline transdermal system) in the U.S. EMSAM* is the first transdermal patch for the delivery of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. EMSAM* was developed by Somerset Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a joint venture between Mylan Laboratories, Inc. (Mylan) and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Watson). The Company has obtained exclusive distribution rights to commercialize EMSAM* in the U.S. and Canada and markets EMSAM* through its existing neuroscience sales force. In March 2006, the FDA approved ERBITUX*, which is co promoted by the Company and ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. ERBITUX* had previously been indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. In February 2006, the Company launched BARACLUDE, its treatment for hepatitis B, in China. The Company also launched BARACLUDE in several new markets during the third quarter of 2006, including Germany, France, the UK and Japan. BARACLUDE is approved in more than 50 countries worldwide. In February 2006, the Company launched ORENCIA, its treatment for signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, in the U.S. after receiving approval from the FDA in December 2005. In June 2006, the Company received approval of ORENCIA in Canada and launched the product in August 2006. OUTLOOK For 2007, the Company expects reductions of net sales for products that have lost exclusivity in previous years to range between $0.9 billion and $1.0 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion in 2006, and $1.3 billion in 2005. While the Company expects generic clopidogrel bisulfate inventory in the market to have a continued residual impact on 2007 PLAVIX* net sales, the Company does expect PLAVIX* net sales and earnings growth in 2007, assuming the absence of renewed or additional generic competition. The Company expects increased prescription demand for PLAVIX* as well as for other key brands and newly launched products. Compared to 2006, gross margin is expected to improve due to growth of higher margin products, lower margin erosion related to exclusivity losses, and improved manufacturing efficiencies. Marketing, selling and administrative expense is expected to remain relatively unchanged as efficiency savings should largely offset inflationary cost increases, and as the Company continues to focus on high value primary care and specialist physicians and implements various productivity initiatives. The Company expects to continue to increase investments to develop additional new compounds and support the introduction of new products. The Company and its subsidiaries are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations including the pending PLAVIX* litigation, described below. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in the scope of these matters or that any future lawsuits, claims and proceedings will not be material to the Company. In addition, there is an increasing trend by foreign governments to scrutinize sales and marketing activities of pharmaceutical companies and there can be no assurance that any such investigations or any other investigations will not be material. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the final outcome of these investigations or litigations. Management continues to believe, as previously disclosed, that during the next few years, the aggregate impact, beyond current reserves, of the pending PLAVIX* patent litigation, these other litigations and investigations and other legal matters affecting the Company is reasonably likely to be material to the Companys results of operations and cash flows, and may be material to its financial condition and liquidity. The Companys expectations for the next several years described above do not reflect the potential impact of litigation on the Companys results of operations. As previously disclosed, the composition of matter patent for PLAVIX*, which expires in 2011, is subject to litigation in the U.S. with Apotex. The trial in the underlying patent litigation ended on February 15, 2007 and the Court is expected to rule following post trial briefing. If Apotex were to prevail in the trial in the patent litigation, the Company would expect to face renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* promptly thereafter. There are other pending PLAVIX* patent litigations in the U.S. and in other less significant markets for the product. In the U.S., the Companys U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with Sanofi is a plaintiff in three additional pending patent infringement lawsuits against Dr. Reddys, Teva and Cobalt, all related to the 265 Patent. Each of Dr. Reddys and Teva have filed an aNDA with the FDA, and all exclusivity periods and statutory stay periods under the Hatch Waxman Act have expired, with the exception of the 30 month stay that applies to Teva, which expires on February 27, 2007. Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic clopidogrel bisulfate product in the U.S., although such a launch at this point in time would be at risk of an adverse damages award should the Companies prevail in the underlying patent litigation. The Company continues to believe that the PLAVIX* patents are valid and infringed, and with Sanofi, is vigorously pursuing these cases. 45 It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the ultimate outcome of the patent litigation with Apotex or of the other PLAVIX* patent litigations, or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX* from other generic pharmaceutical companies. Loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX* and or the development of sustained generic competition would be material to the Companys sales of PLAVIX*, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Companys financial condition and liquidity. PLAVIX* is the Companys largest product by net sales, and U.S. net sales for PLAVIX* were $2.7 billion, $3.2 billion and $2.8 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As previously disclosed, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a criminal investigation regarding the proposed settlement of the pending PLAVIX* patent litigation with Apotex. The Company is cooperating fully with the investigation. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the investigation or its impact on the Company. It is also not possible at this time reasonably to assess the impact of the investigation, if any, on the Companys compliance with the DPA with the USAO. Also as previously disclosed, the USAO had initiated an investigation conducted by the Monitor under the DPA and the USAO, into the Companys negotiations of the proposed settlement with Apotex, which included a review of corporate governance issues and whether there was any violation of Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement with Apotex under the terms of the previously disclosed Consent that the Company entered into with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). The Monitor has completed his investigation and submitted his report on the investigation to the USAO. The Monitors report did not find any violation of the Consent or the Federal securities laws in connection with the proposed settlement. The Monitor concluded that the Company had violated certain paragraphs of the DPA related to governance matters. The violations cited by the Monitor in his report relate, among other things, to communication failures, including insufficient communications, by the Companys former CEO and former General Counsel with the Board and with other members of senior management, as well as failure to comply with certain internal Company policies and procedures. The Monitor did not make any findings with respect to whether the Company knowingly and materially breached the DPA or make any recommendations. The USAO has advised the Company that he believes the matters cited in the Monitors report have been fully remediated and, accordingly, that he does not intend to take any action under the DPA with respect to the Monitors report. For additional discussion of legal matters, including the PLAVIX* patent litigation, the Antitrust Division investigation related to the proposed settlement with Apotex and the terms of the DPA and SEC Consent, see Executive Summary PLAVIX* and SEC Consent Order and Deferred Prosecution Agreement above and 
 
