FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20020823150305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 August 23, 2002 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) ConAgra Foods, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-7275 47-0248710 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, Nebraska 68102-5001 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (402) 595-4000
Item 7(c). Exhibits. 99.1 Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer 99.2 Statement Under Oath of Principal Financial Officer Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure On August 23, 2002, each of the Principal Executive Officer, Bruce Rohde, and Principal Financial Officer, James P. O'Donnell, of ConAgra Foods, Inc., forwarded to the Securities and Exchange Commission a written statement under oath pursuant to SEC Order No. 4-460. A copy of each of these statements is attached hereto as an exhibit (99.1 and 99.2).
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. Date: August 23, 2002 By: /s/ James P. O'Donnell ------------------------------- Name: James P. O'Donnell Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description Page 99.1 Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer.......... 99.2 Statement Under Oath of Principal Financial Officer..........

Exhibit 99.1 OMB Number: 3235-0569 Expires: January 31, 2003 Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings I, Bruce Rohde, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ConAgra Foods, Inc., state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of ConAgra Foods, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: o no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and o no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": o Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 2002 of ConAgra Foods, Inc.; o all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of ConAgra Foods, Inc. filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and o any amendments to any of the foregoing. Subscribed and sworn to before me this 23rd day of August 2002. /s/ Bruce Rohde Bruce Rohde /s/ Beverly M. Thorne Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ------------------------- ConAgra Foods, Inc. Notary Public August 23, 2002 My Commission Expires: 5/15/06
Paperwork Reduction Act Disclosure: The Office of Management and Budget has approved this collection of information pursuant to 44 U.S.C. ss. 3507 and 5 C.F.R. ss. 1320.13. The OMB control number for this collection of information pursuant to this Order and Exhibit A is 3235-0569, and it expires on January 31, 2003. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number. The information will be used to provide greater assurance to the Commission and to investors that persons have not violated, or are not currently violating, the provisions of the federal securities laws governing corporate issuers' financial reporting and accounting practices, and to aid the Commission in assessing whether it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors for the Commission to adopt or amend rules and regulations governing corporate issuers' financial practices and/or for the Commission to recommend legislation to Congress concerning these matters. We estimate that providing the requested information will take, on average, approximately 25 hours. Any member of the public may direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate and any suggestions for reducing this burden. Responses to the collection of information are mandatory and will not be kept confidential.

Exhibit 99.2 OMB Number: 3235-0569 Expires: January 31, 2003 Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings I, Jim O'Donnell, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary of ConAgra Foods, Inc., state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of ConAgra Foods, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: o no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and o no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": o Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 26, 2002 of ConAgra Foods, Inc.; o all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of ConAgra Foods, Inc. filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and o any amendments to any of the foregoing. Subscribed and sworn to before me this 23rd day of August 2002. /s/ Jim O'Donnell /s/ Beverly M. Thorne - ----------------------------------- ------------------------- Jim O'Donnell Notary Public Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and My Commission Expires: Corporate Secretary, ConAgra Foods, Inc. 5/15/06 August 23, 2002
Paperwork Reduction Act Disclosure: The Office of Management and Budget has approved this collection of information pursuant to 44 U.S.C. ss. 3507 and 5 C.F.R. ss. 1320.13. The OMB control number for this collection of information pursuant to this Order and Exhibit A is 3235-0569, and it expires on January 31, 2003. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number. The information will be used to provide greater assurance to the Commission and to investors that persons have not violated, or are not currently violating, the provisions of the federal securities laws governing corporate issuers' financial reporting and accounting practices, and to aid the Commission in assessing whether it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors for the Commission to adopt or amend rules and regulations governing corporate issuers' financial practices and/or for the Commission to recommend legislation to Congress concerning these matters. We estimate that providing the requested information will take, on average, approximately 25 hours. Any member of the public may direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate and any suggestions for reducing this burden. Responses to the collection of information are mandatory and will not be kept confidential.


