FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20031030093207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 October 30, 2003 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) ConAgra Foods, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-7275 47-0248710 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, Nebraska 68102-5001 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (402) 595-4000
Item 5. Other Events. On October 30, 2003, ConAgra Foods, Inc. announced the signing of an agreement to sell United Agri Products, its U.S. and Canadian crop inputs business. The press release announcing the transaction, and a related Q&A posted on ConAgra Foods' website, are attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference. Item 7(c). Exhibits. 99.1 Press release dated October 30, 2003 99.2 Questions and Answers
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. Date: October 30, 2003 By: /s/ J.P. O'Donnell -------------------------------- Name: J.P. O'Donnell Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description 99.1 Press release dated October 30, 2003........................... 99.2 Questions and Answers..........................................

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONAGRA FOODS TO DIVEST UNITED AGRI PRODUCTS Accomplishes Strategic Focus on Branded and Value-Added Food Business OMAHA, Neb., October 30, 2003 -- Today ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of America's leading packaged food companies, announced that it has reached an agreement to sell United Agri Products (UAP), its U.S. and Canadian crop inputs business. Apollo Management, L.P. will purchase the business in a transaction expected to close before December 31, 2003. This divestiture by ConAgra Foods, the sixth since September 2002 of primarily commodity businesses, underscores a strategic shift in the company's mix of businesses and brands, which is part of a planned program to build its branded and value-added food business. Since September 2002 major divestitures completed or announced by ConAgra Foods include its fresh beef and pork businesses, its poultry business, canned seafood, cheese processing and now UAP. This repositions ConAgra Foods, a major supplier to both foodservice and retail customers, as a focused packaged foods business - with leading brands like Banquet, Butterball, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Knott's Berry Farm, PAM, Parkay, Reddi-wip, Orville Redenbacher's, Slim Jim and Swiss Miss. Bruce Rohde, ConAgra Foods chairman and chief executive officer, commented, "This divestiture brings us closer to achieving our ultimate aim of becoming America's Favorite Food Company by providing consumers with quality favorites and customers with superior service. It also focuses our resources on businesses which have higher margin opportunities."
Terms of the Agreement o The sale price is expected to be approximately $600 million; ConAgra Foods will receive approximately $540 million in cash and the remainder in preferred securities. o As a result of the transaction, ConAgra Foods will take an approximate $25 million charge or $0.04 per diluted share to the fiscal second quarter. o Apollo Management, L.P. is purchasing all of UAP's U.S. and Canadian businesses, which accounts for approximately $2.55 billion of UAP's $2.8 billion in total annualized sales. ConAgra Foods noted that the pending divestiture of UAP does not alter its EPS expectations for Fiscal 2004. Additional details regarding this announcement are posted in a question-and-answer document located on the company's Web site, www.conagrafoods.com, in the Investors section. ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving consumer grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ACT II, Armour, Banquet, Blue Bonnet, Butterball, Chef Boyardee, Cook's, Eckrich, Gulden's, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Kid Cuisine, Knott's Berry Farm, La Choy, Louis Kemp, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, Parkay, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, PAM, Pemmican, Peter Pan, Snack Pack, Swiss Miss, Van Camp's, Wesson, and many others. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com. Note on Forward-Looking Statements: This news release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Future economic circumstances, industry conditions, company performance and financial results, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The company is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Q&A: United Agri Products October 30, 2003 1. Why is ConAgra Foods selling this business? Selling UAP fits with our strategy to focus on branded and value-added products. Other recent strategic actions toward this goal have included divesting our fresh beef and pork business (September 2002), divesting our canned seafood business (May 2003), divesting two cheese-processing operations (May 2003), and the pending divestiture of the chicken processing operations (expected to close soon). 2. ConAgra Foods is retaining some of UAP's international business. How big are those operations and where are they concentrated? About $250 million of annualized sales concentrated in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, France, Mexico, South Africa, and the United Kingdom. 3. When is the sale of UAP expected to close? The transaction is expected to close by December 31, 2003, subject to customary closing conditions. 4. Will this transaction result in a charge to earnings? ConAgra Foods will take an approximate $25 million charge or $0.04 per diluted share in the fiscal second quarter. 5. What will ConAgra Foods do with the cash proceeds? We'll use them for general corporate purposes including the pay-down of debt. Our priorities for cash are to invest for future growth either by acquisition or organically, as well as to pay dividends, buy back stock, and pay down debt. 6. What is the agreement regarding preferred securities? As part of the consideration, ConAgra Foods will receive $60 - 75 million of preferred stock. The preferred dividend, payable in kind, is as follows: 8% rate years 1-5 9% year 6 10% thereafter
7. How long do you expect to hold the preferred securities? Our preferred securities can be sold as and when Apollo Management sells its equity. In addition, we have other mandatory redemption rights including change of control. 8. Will ConAgra Foods retain any ownership in the divested business? Just in the form of the preferred securities. 9. What was the operating profit for the UAP segment in Fiscal 2003? $47.0 million 10. What were the depreciation and capital expenditures for the UAP segment in Fiscal 2003? Depreciation $18.7 million Capital Expenditures $9.4 million 11. Does the company have plans to make other divestitures? Our objective is to concentrate our capital in branded and value-added food products to improve overall margin and return opportunities. Other recent strategic actions toward this goal have included divesting our fresh beef and pork business (September 2002), divesting our canned seafood business (May 2003), divesting two cheese-processing operations (May 2003), and the pending divestiture of the chicken processing operations (expected to close soon). 12. Will there continue to be an Agricultural Products segment? No. The results of operations of the retained businesses from UAP will be reflected as part of the Food Ingredients segment.


