FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20031204152435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 December 4, 2003 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) ConAgra Foods, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-7275 47-0248710 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, Nebraska 68102-5001 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (402) 595-4000
Item 5. Other Events. On December 4, 2003, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release announcing a stock repurchase program for up to $1 billion of the company's common stock. The press release is attached as exhibit 99.1 and a related Q&A, posted on ConAgra Foods' website, is attached as exhibit 99.2. The press release and Q&A are incorporated by reference. Item 7(c). Exhibits. 99.1 Press release dated December 4, 2003 99.2 Questions and Answers
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. Date: December 4, 2003 By: /s/ J.P. O'Donnell ------------------------------------ Name: J.P. O'Donnell Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description 99.1 Press release dated December 4, 2003............................ 99.2 Questions and Answers...........................................

CONAGRA FOODS ESTABLISHES $1 BILLION SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 4, 2003 -- ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG), home of many of America's favorite food brands, announced today that its board of directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion worth of the company's common stock in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions. $1 billion equates to approximately 40 million shares; 40 million shares represents close to 7% of the company's existing common stock. "In the last few years, we have reshaped the company through strategic acquisitions and divestitures and created one of America's leading packaged foods companies. The company's business mix is vastly different today than it was just a few years ago. Our margins are improved, the amount of debt we incurred for recent acquisitions has been repaid, and our cash position is strong. Our repurchase program underscores our confidence in ConAgra Foods' future and our commitment to strong capital policy," said Bruce Rohde, chairman and chief executive officer of ConAgra Foods. "We are confident that our packaged food portfolio will show solid performance in sales, profits and free cash flow. Our objective is to appropriately balance the cash returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases with the cash reinvested in the business for profitable future growth. This share repurchase program reflects prudent deployment of capital right now as well as our commitment to creating long-term value for shareholders."
The company expects to start repurchasing shares after Dec. 18, 2003, and the exact quantity of shares repurchased and dates of those purchases will depend on market conditions. Additional details regarding this release are posted in a question-and-answer document located on the company's Web site, www.conagrafoods.com, in the section for investors. ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving consumer grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ACT II, Armour, Banquet, Blue Bonnet, Brown 'N Serve, Butterball, Chef Boyardee, Cook's, Crunch 'n Munch, DAVID, Decker, Eckrich, Egg Beaters, Fleischmann's, Gulden's, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Kid Cuisine, Knott's Berry Farm, La Choy, Lamb Weston, Libby's, Lightlife, Louis Kemp, Lunch Makers, MaMa Rosa's, Manwich, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Parkay, Pemmican, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Rosarita, Ro*Tel, Slim Jim, Snack Pack, Swiss Miss, Van Camp's, Wesson, Wolf, and many others. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com. Note on Forward-Looking Statements: This news release contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. Future economic circumstances, industry conditions, company performance and financial results, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The company is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Q&A: ConAgra Foods Share Repurchase Program December 4, 2003 1. What changes have taken place in the company's portfolio, and how do those changes fit with the company's strategy? ConAgra Foods has acquired branded and value-added products over the last few years, and has recently divested several commodity-oriented businesses, including o fresh beef and pork processing operations (sold September 2002), o commodity cheese operations (sold May 2003), o canned seafood operations (sold May 2003), o chicken processing operations (sold November 2003), and o agricultural distribution operations (sold November 2003). The company is focused on branded, value-added food products for the purpose of producing strong operating profit margins, strong returns on capital, as well as reduced earnings volatility. 2. Why is the company planning to repurchase shares? This is part of a strategic capital allocation policy. We believe a share repurchase program is the best use of excess cash at this time and will help create shareholder value. We are generating strong cash flows from operating our business; in addition, we have recently generated significant cash proceeds from divesting businesses. 3. Does repurchasing shares suggest that the company does not expect to continue to grow through strategic acquisitions, or that it is not likely to pay down any more debt? ConAgra Foods generates a substantial amount of cash annually, and we expect to continue to deploy that cash toward investing for future growth, paying dividends, repaying debt, and repurchasing shares as appropriate. o Due to the debt repayment that we have made over the last two years, we have very little short-term or callable long-term debt right now. o As a point of reference, in fiscal 2001, we purchased a branded food company, IHF, for slightly less than $3 billion. We paid for that acquisition by assuming and issuing approximately $2 billion worth of debt, and issuing common shares for the balance of the purchase price. o Over the last two years, we have repaid the amount of debt associated with the transaction. o Once we have completed the share repurchase program discussed in today's news announcement, we will also have repurchased most of the shares issued with that transaction. o We continue to expect to grow through strategic acquisitions conducted opportunistically.


