FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20041109162440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 November 9, 2004 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) ConAgra Foods, Inc. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) Delaware (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-7275 47-0248710 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) One ConAgra Drive Omaha, NE 68102 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (402) 595-4000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. (c) ConAgra Foods announced today the appointment of Frank Sklarsky to the position of chief financial officer of the company. The press release announcing the appointment is attached as an exhibit and is incorporated herein by reference. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Sklarsky, age 47, was Vice President, Product Finance, DaimlerChrysler Corporation since May 2001 and he was recently announced as Vice President, Corporate Financial Control. From January 2000 to April 2001, he was Vice President, Finance, Dell Computer Corporation. From February 1998 to December 1999, he was Vice President, Finance, DaimlerChrysler Corporation. Dwight Goslee, Executive Vice President, Strategic Development, served as the interim chief financial officer prior to Mr. Sklarsky's appointment. A summary of the material terms of Mr. Sklarsky's employment is attached as an exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press Release dated November 9, 2004 10.1 Terms of Employment - Frank Sklarsky
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. Date: November 9, 2004 By: /s/ Owen C. Johnson ------------------------------------ Name: Owen C. Johnson Title: Executive Vice President, Organization & Administration and Corporate Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description Page No. 99.1 Press release dated November 9, 2004.............................. 5 10.1 Terms of Employment - Frank Sklarsky.............................. 7

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONAGRA FOODS NAMES SKLARSKY AS NEW CFO OMAHA, Neb., Nov. 9, 2004 -- ConAgra Foods Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today announced that Frank S. Sklarsky is joining the company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on December 1. Sklarsky, who will report to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bruce Rohde, comes to ConAgra Foods from DaimlerChrysler where he was Vice President, Product Finance and was most recently announced as Vice President, Corporate Financial Control. He is a seasoned financial executive with more than 20 years of corporate financial management experience at DaimlerChrysler and Dell Computer, plus experience in public accounting prior to that. "Frank brings a superb track record of strategic, operating and financial leadership to his new position, and has demonstrated the ability to significantly improve the cost effectiveness and quality of operations. Frank's in-depth knowledge of manufacturing, cost control, performance metrics and supply chain management will play an instrumental role in the operating, information systems and marketing changes currently underway at ConAgra Foods" said Rohde. He continued, "Our marketing, operation and information platforms are key to our agenda to expand profit margins and improve returns on capital."
Prior to his most recent role at DaimlerChrysler, Sklarsky was Vice President of Finance, Product Quality, Cost Management and Procurement. He also previously served as Vice President of Corporate Financial Activities. Mr. Sklarsky holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from the Rochester Institute of Technology and an MBA from Harvard University. He also is a Certified Public Accountant. ConAgra Foods Inc. (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving consumer grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ACT II, Armour, Banquet, Blue Bonnet, Brown 'N Serve, Butterball, Chef Boyardee, Cook's, Crunch 'n Munch, DAVID, Decker, Eckrich, Egg Beaters, Fleischmann's, Golden Cuisine, Gulden's, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Kid Cuisine, Knott's Berry Farm, La Choy, Lamb Weston, Libby's, Life Choice, Lightlife, Lunch Makers, MaMa Rosa's, Manwich, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Parkay, Pemmican, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Rosarita, Ro*Tel, Slim Jim, Snack Pack, Swiss Miss, Van Camp's, Wesson, Wolf, and many others. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com.

Exhibit 10.1 CONAGRA FOODS, INC. FRANK S. SKLARSKY - EMPLOYMENT SUMMARY OF TERMS Position: Chief Financial Officer for ConAgra Foods, Inc. 1) Annual Salary: $ 500,000 per annum payable bi-weekly. 2) Annual Incentive: Participation in the annual management incentive program. Incentive uncapped but targeted at 100% of annual salary. Payment contingent upon the achievement of business goals and individual performance objectives. For the fiscal year ending May 2005 only, a full year payout at target to facilitate partial buy-out of incentive position with current employer. 3) Long Term Senior Management Incentive Plan: Participation in ConAgra Foods long-term senior management incentive program at four units. Eligibility for an award of equivalent value paid in restricted units on the same basis as other participants in the long-term program. 4) Restricted Stock Grant: One-time grant of 50,000 restricted shares of ConAgra Foods stock 100% vested on the fourth anniversary of the grant; if employment with ConAgra Foods terminates prior to that date for reasons other than "cause", vest at 25% for each year of employment. 5) Sign On Bonus: Sign on payment of $350,000, less applicable deductions, payable within 30 days of start date. Resignation within one year results in 100% of re-payment to the company; if between one and two years, 50% repayment. 6) Pension: Participation in ConAgra Foods pension program on the same basis as other participants. 7) Supplemental Employee Benefits: Participation in the supplemental ConAgra Foods non-qualified pension plan that covers pensionable earnings (base and regular annual incentives) above the IRS imposed limits, on the same basis as other participants. Starting at the end of 5th year of continuous service ,credit for one additional year of service and an additional year of service credit at the end of each year of continuous service through year 14 for a total of ten additional credited years of service used in the calculation of the nonqualified pension benefit. 8) 401K Plan: Participation in the ConAgra Foods' 401K Plan. Participation in the ConAgra Foods' non-qualified 401K Plan. Participation in each plan on the same basis as other participants. 9) Relocation Package: Participation in ConAgra Foods' relocation program on the same basis as other participants, including receipt of a $25,000 payment less appropriate taxes upon relocation to Omaha and mortgage assistance capped at a maximum of $30,000.


