FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20040510170843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 May 7, 2004 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) ConAgra Foods, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-7275 47-0248710 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) One ConAgra Drive, Omaha, Nebraska 68102-5001 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (402) 595-4000
Item 5. Other Events. On May 10, 2004, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Rights Agreement, dated July 12, 1996, between ConAgra Foods and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the "Rights Agreement"). The amendment effectively terminates the Rights Agreement and the associated preferred share purchase rights on May 14, 2004. The Board also adopted the following new policy regarding rights plans: "The Corporation's Rights Plan will expire effective May 14, 2004 and the Board has no current intention to adopt a new shareholder rights plan. The Board's policy is that it will only adopt a shareholder rights plan if either: (1) the stockholders have approved adoption of the rights plan or (2) the Board in its exercise of its fiduciary responsibilities, including a majority of the independent members of the Board, makes a determination that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interests of the stockholders to adopt a shareholder rights plan without the delay in adoption that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek stockholder approval." A copy of the amendment of the Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated by reference. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference. Item 7(c). Exhibits. Exhibit 4.1. Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of May 7, 2004, between ConAgra Foods, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association Exhibit 99.1 Press release dated May 10, 2004.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. Date: May 10, 2004 By: /s/ J.P. O'Donnell ------------------------------------ Name: J.P. O'Donnell Title: Executive Vice President
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description Page No. 4.1 Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of May 7, 2004, between ConAgra Foods, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association.... 99.1 Press release dated May 10, 2004..................................

AMENDMENT TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT AMENDMENT (the "Amendment"), dated as of May 7, 2004, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1996 (the "Rights Agreement"), between ConAgra Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"). RECITALS WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent have heretofore executed and entered into the Rights Agreement. WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, from time to time the Company may, and the Rights Agent shall if the Company so directs, from time to time supplement and amend the Rights Agreement. WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that an amendment to the Rights Agreement as set forth herein is necessary and desirable in connection with the foregoing and the Company desires to evidence such amendment in writing. WHEREAS, all acts and things necessary to make this Amendment a valid agreement, enforceable according to its terms have been done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Amendment by the Company have been in all respects duly authorized by the Company. Accordingly, the parties agree as follows: A. Amendment of Section 7(a). Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and supplemented by deleting "(i) the close of business on July 12, 2006 (the "Final Expiration Date")" and replacing it with the following: "(i) the close of business on May 14, 2004 (the "Final Expiration Date")" B. Effectiveness. This Amendment shall be deemed effective as of the date first written above, as if executed on such date. Except as amended hereby, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby. C. Miscellaneous. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of such state applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state. If any provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be effected, impaired or invalidated. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, or unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Rights Agreement. The Rights Agent and the Company hereby waive any notice
requirement under the Rights Agreement pertaining to the matters covered by this Amendment. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ J.P. O'Donnell By: /s/ Kenneth P Swanson ------------------------------ ------------------------------ Name: J.P. O'Donnell Name: Kenneth P Swanson Title: Executive Vice President Title: Vice President

ConAgra Foods Takes Action on Stockholders' Rights Plan OMAHA, Neb., May 10, 2004 - ConAgra Foods (NYSE:CAG), one of America's leading packaged food companies, announced today that its Board of Directors has voted to terminate the ConAgra Foods stockholders' rights plan effective May 14, 2004. The rights plan had been scheduled to expire in July 2006. The company also today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a new policy. The policy is that the Board will not adopt a stockholders' rights plan in the future unless either the stockholders approve its adoption or the Board, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, including a majority of the independent directors, determines that, under the given circumstances, it is in the best interests of the stockholders to adopt a rights plan without the delay that would come from the time reasonably anticipated to seek shareholder approval. ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving consumer grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ACT II, Armour, Banquet, Blue Bonnet, Brown 'N Serve, Butterball, Chef Boyardee, Cook's, Crunch 'n Munch, DAVID, Decker, Eckrich, Egg Beaters, Fleischmann's, Golden Cuisine, Gulden's, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Kid Cuisine, Knott's Berry Farm, La Choy, Lamb Weston, Libby's, Life Choice, Lightlife, Lunch Makers, MaMa Rosa's, Manwich, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Parkay, Pemmican, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Rosarita, Ro*Tel, Slim Jim, Snack Pack, Swiss Miss, Van Camp's, Wesson, Wolf, and many others. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com.


