FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20050831182133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 August 31, 2005 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) ConAgra Foods, Inc. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) Delaware (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-7275 47-0248710 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) One ConAgra Drive Omaha, NE 68102 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (402) 595-4000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement ConAgra Foods announced today the election of Gary M. Rodkin to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of the company beginning October 1, 2005. Mr. Rodkin was also named to the ConAgra Foods Board of Directors effective October 1. Mr. Rodkin succeeds Bruce Rohde, the current President and Chief Executive Officer. The board of directors of ConAgra Foods has elected Steven F. Goldstone to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board beginning on October 1. He succeeds Mr. Rohde, the current Chairman of the Board. A press release announcing these matters is included as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Rodkin, age 53, served as an executive of PepsiCo, Inc. from 1998 to 2005. From February 2003 to March 2005 he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America. Mr. Rodkin became President and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America in 2002. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America from 1999 to 2002. Mr. Rodkin was President of Tropicana North America from 1995 to 1998, and became President and Chief Executive Officer of Tropicana when PepsiCo acquired it in 1998. Before joining Tropicana in 1995, Mr. Rodkin held positions of increasing responsibility at General Mills, Inc. from 1979 to 1995. Mr. Rodkin received a bachelor's degree in economics from Rutgers College and an MBA from Harvard Business School. The Employment Agreement, Stock Option Agreement and Agreement between ConAgra Foods and Mr. Rodkin, each dated August 31, 2005, are included as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 and are incorporated herein by reference. A brief summary of the material terms of Mr. Rodkin's employment agreements are set forth on Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto and incorporated by this reference. Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers: Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. (b), (c) and (d). The disclosures set forth above under Item 1.01 are incorporated by reference to each of these items of Item 5.02. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibit Description 99.1 Press Release dated August 31, 2005 99.2 Summary of Employment Terms 10.1 Employment Agreement between ConAgra Foods and Gary M. Rodkin dated August 31, 2005 10.2 Stock Option Agreement between ConAgra Foods and Gary M. Rodkin dated August 31, 2005 10.3 Agreement between ConAgra Foods and Gary M. Rodkin dated August 31, 2005
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. Date: August 31, 2005 By: /s/ Owen C. Johnson -------------------------------------- Name: Owen C. Johnson Title: Executive Vice President, Organization & Administration and Corporate Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description 99.1 Press release dated Augus 31, 2005................................ 99.2 Summary of Employment Terms....................................... 10.1 Employment Agreement between ConAgra Foods and Gary M. Rodkin dated August 31, 2005 ............................................ 10.2 Stock Option Agreement between ConAgra Foods and Gary M. Rodkin dated August 31, 2005 ............................................ 10.3 Agreement between ConAgra Foods and Gary M. Rodkin dated August 31, 2005...................................................

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONAGRA FOODS BOARD ELECTS GARY RODKIN PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Steven Goldstone Selected as Non-Executive Chairman OMAHA, Neb., Aug. 31, 2005 -- ConAgra Foods Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today announced that Gary M. Rodkin will be the company's new president and chief executive officer and a member of its board of directors beginning Oct. 1. Rodkin, 53, was most recently chairman and chief executive officer of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America. He will succeed Bruce Rohde, 56, the current president and CEO. "Gary Rodkin is an accomplished leader with world-class general management skills who has consistently driven strong business results throughout his career. He's built leading brands and winning teams at General Mills, Tropicana and Pepsico. His leadership, consumer marketing skills and more than 25 years of packaged foods experience make him uniquely qualified to lead ConAgra Foods into an era of improved performance and profitable growth," said Board member Steven F. Goldstone, 59, who led the Board's search committee for a new chief executive. Goldstone himself was appointed by the Board as its new non-executive chairman beginning Oct. 1. Goldstone is a retired chairman and chief executive officer of RJR Nabisco. "I'm very excited about the opportunity. Few packaged foods companies have as many consumer brand favorites or as much upside potential as ConAgra Foods," said Rodkin. "A lot has been accomplished in recent years to shape the company's portfolio and strengthen its business model. With that foundation, we will focus on sustainable profit growth through well-defined strategic focus and operational excellence. "Ultimately, companies grow and gain competitive advantage by building brands that are relevant to and valued by consumers, and by leveraging one's capabilities to the benefit of customers. By keeping everybody focused on this, we will not only overcome any challenges, we will bring greater relevance to consumers, better serve customers and build shareowner value." In Rodkin's last job at PepsiCo, as president and CEO of PepsiCo Beverages and Foods North America, he led a $10 billion organization including such leading brands as Pepsi, Gatorade, Quaker Foods and Tropicana. He joined PepsiCo in 1998 when PepsiCo acquired Tropicana, where he had served as its president for North America since 1995. From 1979 to 1995, Rodkin held marketing and general management positions of increasing responsibility at General Mills, participating in the successes of many of its leading brands from Cheerios to Betty Crocker, with his last three years at the company as president, Yoplait-Colombo. Rodkin earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Rutgers College and a MBA from Harvard Business School. He is married and has two children. Rohde commented, "Gary is a quality person and a proven leader. His record of growing brands, marketing excellence and leading people is exactly what we need. He is fully ready for this opportunity and our people are ready to respond." Rohde has been a director since 1996 and chairman and chief executive officer since 1998. During his tenure, he transformed ConAgra Foods from a food conglomerate with most of its sales in commodities into one of North America's largest packaged foods companies. "The Board expresses its gratitude to Bruce for his strategic leadership," said Goldstone. "His transformation of the portfolio and refocusing of the business are lasting legacies that give us a more solid foundation from which to build." Rodkin's selection is the culmination of a formal search process launched by Rohde's announcement earlier this year of his plans to seek a successor. The Board was assisted in its search by Heidrick & Struggles, one of the world's premier executive search firms. ConAgra Foods Inc. (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving consumer grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ACT II, Armour, Banquet, Blue Bonnet, Brown 'N Serve, Butterball, Chef Boyardee, Cook's, Crunch 'n Munch, DAVID, Eckrich, Egg Beaters, Fleischmann's, Golden Cuisine, Gulden's, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Kid Cuisine, Knott's Berry Farm, La Choy, Lamb Weston, Libby's, Life Choice, Lunch Makers, MaMa Rosa's, Manwich, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Parkay, Pemmican, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Rosarita, Ro*Tel, Slim Jim, Snack Pack, Swiss Miss, Van Camp's, Wesson, Wolf, and many others. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com.

Exhibit 99.2 GARY M. RODKIN - SUMMARY OF EMPLOYMENT TERMS Position: President and Chief Executive Officer for ConAgra Foods, Inc. beginning October 1, 2005 Annual Salary: $ 1,000,000 per annum. Annual Incentive: Participation in the annual management incentive program uncapped but targeted at 200% of annual salary. For the fiscal year ending May 2006 only, a full year payout at no less than target guaranteed. Long Term Incentive: In lieu of participation in the FY 06 long-term incentive program, 480,000 options awarded at end of FY 2006, with exercise price at the closing price of the company common stock on date of grant, and vesting 40%/30%/30% commencing with the end of FY 2007. Participation in ConAgra Foods long-term senior management incentive program commencing FY 2007 at levels commensurate with executive's position. Stock Option Grant: One-time grant of 1,000,000 stock options on August 31, 2005, with exercise price at the closing price of the company common stock on date of grant and vesting 40%/30%/30% commencing with the end of FY 2007. Relocation: Relocation benefits, including home sale and purchase assistance, commutation travel for executive to/from corporate headquarters/White Plains, and apartment housing in Omaha for the lesser of two years or until Executive purchases permanent housing, and full tax gross-up (excluding gain on sale of home). Benefits and Perquisites: Participation in all employee and executive pension, profit sharing, 401(k) and welfare benefit plans (including medical and dental), and other benefit programs and arrangements, (including qualified and non-qualified plans). Supplemental Retirement: Participation in the supplemental ConAgra Foods non-qualified pension plan and 401K non-qualified plan, with crediting of additional years of service and credits with respect to the non-qualified pension plan, and limitations with respect to both plans, as set forth in the employment agreement. Employment Term and Termination: Either party may terminate employment agreement at any time. Upon death or permanent disability, restricted stock is fully vested, options are fully vested and exercisable during the remainder of their term, deferred compensation is promptly paid, and certain salary and bonus amounts are paid. Upon a termination by the company without cause or by the executive for good reason, (i) the benefits in the prior sentence are applicable, and (ii) the base salary and bonus continues for 24 months, and participation in health and welfare plans continues for up to two years. Upon a termination by the company with cause or by the executive without good reason, salary is paid through the month of termination and other benefits are payable in accordance with the company's benefit plans. Change of Control Benefits: Participation in ConAgra Foods change of control benefits programs as modified from time to time (provided severance not less than 2.99 times annual compensation, plus excise tax gross-up).

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AGREEMENT made by and between ConAgra Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Company"), and Gary M. Rodkin ("Executive") dated August 31, 2005 (the "Agreement Date"). The Board of Directors of the Company ("Board") has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to obtain and retain the services of Executive. In order to accomplish this objective, the Board has caused the Company to enter into this Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows: 1. Term of Employment. Executive's term of employment under this Agreement shall commence on the Agreement Date and shall continue in accordance with the terms hereof until a termination of Executive's employment. 2. Position and Duties. 2.1 Position. On October 1, the Executive will become President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Executive shall have the customary powers, responsibilities and authorities of presidents and CEOs of corporations of the size, type and nature of the Company and as provided in the Company's by-laws. Executive's office shall be at the principal executive offices of the Company in Omaha, Nebraska. 2.2 Duties. Executive shall devote his full working time and efforts to the performance of the duties outlined above. Executive may, consistent with his duties hereunder, engage in charitable and community affairs, manage his personal investments and (subject to the prior approval of the Board) serve on the board of directors of other companies. 3. Compensation. 3.1 Base Salary. The Company shall pay Executive a Base Salary ("Base Salary") at the rate of $1,000,000 per annum. The Base Salary shall be payable in accordance with the ordinary payroll practices of the Company. Executive's rate of Base Salary shall be reviewed for possible increases by the Board at least annually, and any such increased amount shall become the Base Salary hereunder. 3.2 Annual Incentive Bonus. Executive shall be entitled to receive an annual bonus under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan ("Annual Bonus Plan"), or any successor plan subsequently available to senior executive officers. Executive's target bonus opportunity under the Annual Bonus Plan shall not be less than 200% of Executive's Base Salary. The performance goals with respect to such target bonus opportunity shall be established annually by the Human Resources Committee of the Board on a basis consistent with the establishment of such performance goals for other senior executive officers of the Company. Executive's annual bonus for fiscal year 2006 shall be no less than his target bonus. 3.3 Long Term Senior Management Incentive Plan. (a) In lieu of participation in the Company's Long-Term Senior Management Incentive Program ("LTSMIP") for fiscal year 2006, on May 26, 2006, the Company will grant to Executive options to acquire 480,000 shares of Company common stock. The exercise price of such options shall be the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") on May 26, 2006. Subject to earlier vesting as may be provided herein or in the award agreement, one hundred ninety-two thousand (192,000) of such options shall vest and become exercisable on May 27, 2007; 144,000 of such options shall vest and become exercisable on May 25, 2008; and the balance of such options shall vest and become exercisable on May 31, 2009, in all events subject to Executive's continued employment on such dates. Such options shall be granted pursuant to a stock option agreement in the form of the stock option agreement referenced in Section 3.4. (b) Beginning with fiscal year 2007, Executive shall participate in the LTSMIP or any successor plan at levels determined by the Human Resource Committee of the Board of Directors and commensurate with Executive's position. 3.4 Stock Option Grant. Pursuant to the stock option agreement entered into as of the Agreement Date, the Company will grant to Executive upon execution of this Agreement options to acquire 1,000,000 shares of Company common stock. The exercise price of such options will be the closing price of the Company's common stock on the NYSE on the date of grant. Subject to earlier vesting as may be provided herein or in the award agreement, four hundred thousand (400,000) of such options shall vest and become exercisable on May 27, 2007; 300,000 of such options shall vest and become exercisable on May 25, 2008; and the balance of such options shall vest and become exercisable on May 31, 2009, in all events subject to Executive's continued employment on such dates. 4. Other Benefits. 4.1 Employee Benefit Plans. The Company shall provide Executive and his eligible dependents with coverage under all employee benefit programs, plans and practices, in accordance with the terms thereof, which the Company makes available to senior executive officers (including qualified and non-qualified plans) in accordance with Company policies. This will include vacation benefits pursuant to standard Company vacation policy, but not less than four weeks per calendar year. 4.2 Non-Qualified Plans. The Executive will participate in the Company's Non-Qualified Pension Plan (the "Non-Qualified Plan") and Non-Qualified CRISP Plan ("Non-Qualified CRISP Plan"). For purposes of the Non-Qualified Plan, except as set forth below, (i) years of service for purposes of calculating benefits will be credited at a three-for-one rate until Executive has service credit of thirty years, and (ii) annual pensionable earnings shall be no less than $3,000,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) in the event of voluntary termination or retirement prior to attainment of age 60, a crediting rate of two-for-one shall apply in lieu of the three-for-one rate, (y) the Board must approve a voluntary termination or retirement before the fifth anniversary of the Agreement Date and, in the event of such termination or retirement without approval by the Board, the Executive will not be entitled to any benefits under the Non-Qualified Plan or the Non-Qualified CRISP Plan, and (z) the amount of benefit payable under the Non-Qualified Plan shall be subject to offset for benefits paid or payable to Executive under any Pepsi supplemental pension retirement plan. Such offset shall be determined by converting benefits under both such plans to lump sum equivalent values which shall be determined by applying the actuarial assumptions and methods used by the Company for purposes for determining the lump sum benefit payments under the Non-Qualified Plan. In the event of termination for "Cause", the Executive will not be entitled to any benefits under the Non-Qualified Plan or the Non-Qualified CRISP Plan. 4.3 Directors and Officers Liability Coverage. Executive shall be entitled to the same coverage under the Company's directors and officers liability insurance policies as is available to senior executive officers and directors with the Company. In any event, the Company shall indemnify and hold Executive harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, from and against all costs, charges and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred or sustained in connection with any action, suit or proceeding to which Executive or his legal representatives may be made a party by reason of Executive's being or having been a director or officer of the Company or any of its affiliates or employee benefit plans. The provisions of this subparagraph shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Executive seeking indemnification may have under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or directors, or otherwise. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the termination of this Agreement for any reason. 4.4 Expenses. Executive is authorized to incur reasonable expenses in carrying out his duties under this Agreement, including expenses for travel and similar items related to such duties. The Company shall reimburse Executive for all such expenses upon presentation by Executive from time to time of an itemized account of such expenditures. The Company will pay all reasonable professional fees and expenses incurred by Executive in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement. 4.5 Relocation. Executive will be provided full relocation benefits in accordance with the Company's policy, subject to the following: (a) Executive will be provided temporary housing in Omaha at the Company's expense in a corporate apartment (or equivalent monthly housing allowance) for the lesser of two years or until Executive purchases permanent housing in Omaha ("Interim Period"); (b) Executive will be provided commutation travel for Executive to and from White Plains/Omaha during the Interim Period; (c) To the extent that any benefit provided pursuant to this Section 4.5 is taxable to the Executive, the Company shall pay to the Executive a full gross-up (except to the extent such expenditures by the Executive may be deducted on the Executive's personal income tax return and excluding gain on sale of home) so that the amounts paid by the Company, net of the Executive's taxes, fully cover the relevant expenses. 4.6 Security Policy. The Company's senior executive security policy will apply to Executive, including use of corporate aircraft and appropriate home security in Omaha. 4.7 Change of Control Benefits. The Executive will participate in the Company's change of control benefits programs and agreements applicable to the Company's executive officers, as modified from time to time; provided that (i) the severance benefit which may become payable to Executive upon or after a change of control as defined under such program shall be no less than 2.99 times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus target annual bonus as provided under in Section 3.1 and 3.2 hereof, and (ii) Executive will be entitled to full tax gross up (including all taxes imposed on such gross up payment) with respect to excise taxes (including interest and penalties related thereto) imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to any payments, distributions or benefits paid or payable to or for the benefit of Executive pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise; provided further, if the benefits payable under such change of control benefits programs are duplicative of benefits provided under this Agreement, the Executive shall receive only the most favorable benefits (determined on a benefit by benefit basis) under one such program. 4.8 Stock Ownership. The Executive acknowledges and agrees to comply with the Company's executive stock ownership guidelines as existing from time to time, and which currently prohibit Executive from selling any shares of Company common stock except (i) shares, the proceeds of which are used to pay taxes resulting from the vesting or exercise of options, and (ii) sales, so long as, immediately following such sale, Executive owns shares of Company common stock (as determined under the Company's share ownership guidelines, as modified from time to time) with a value (as determined under the Company's share ownership guidelines, as modified from time to time) in excess of six times Executive's annual Base Salary. 4.9 Post-Retirement Benefits. (a) Upon termination of employment following the fifth anniversary of the Agreement Date, or, if earlier, due to death or disability, or involuntary termination without Cause or resignation for Good Reason, Executive will be deemed retiree eligible ("Retiree Eligible") under all pension (other than qualified pension plans), welfare benefit and equity incentive plans and programs applicable to senior executives. (b) So long as Executive is Retiree Eligible, Executive (his wife and other covered dependents) shall be provided post-employment COBRA-equivalent medical coverage, at Executive's expense, until each of Executive and his wife, respectively, attain age 65 (and other covered dependents otherwise would cease to be eligible for coverage). This benefit would follow any health benefit continuation coverage occurring in connection with severance-related benefits continuation described in Section 5.2 and would fill gaps in Company-provided retiree plan coverage. 5. Termination of Employment. The Company may terminate Executive's employment at any time for any reason, and Executive may terminate his employment at any time with or without Good Reason, subject to the terms of this Section 5. For purposes of this Section 5, the following terms shall have the following meanings: (a) "Cause" shall be limited to (i) action by Executive involving willful malfeasance in connection with his employment having a material adverse effect on the Company, (ii) substantial and continuing refusal by Executive in willful breach of this Agreement to perform the duties ordinarily performed by an executive occupying his position, which refusal has a material adverse effect on the Company, or (iii) Executive being convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude under the laws of the United States or any state. (b) "Good Reason" shall mean (i) the assignment to Executive of duties materially inconsistent with Executive's position or any removal of Executive from, or failure to elect or reelect Executive to, the position of President and CEO of the Company (or other position as may be agreed to by Executive), except in any case in connection with the termination of Executive's employment for Cause, Permanent Disability, death, or voluntary termination by Executive without Good Reason, (ii) failure of the Board to nominate Executive for election to the Company's Board, except in connection with termination for Cause, Permanent Disability, death, or voluntary termination by Executive without Good Reason, (iii) a reduction of Executive's Base Salary or of the annual target bonus opportunity as in effect on the Agreement Date, (iv) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement, or (v) a requirement that Executive be based at any office or location other than Omaha, Nebraska. (c) "Permanent Disability" shall mean the permanent disability of Executive as determined under the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan. 5.1 Termination Upon Death or Permanent Disability. In the event Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by reason of Executive's death or Permanent Disability (i) all restrictions on previously granted restricted stock awards shall lapse and such shares shall become fully vested, (ii) all options previously granted to Executive, and all awards in connection with the LTSMIP, shall become fully vested, and all options will be exercisable during the remainder of the term of such options, (iii) all deferred compensation (not including retirement benefits) shall be promptly paid to Executive's estate or designated beneficiary in accordance with the terms of such deferred compensation (the items in (i), (ii) and (iii) above and (v) below are collectively referred to as the "Accrued Benefits"), (iv) Executive and his dependents shall continue to participate in the Company's employee benefit plans to the extent provided in such plans with respect to the death or Permanent Disability of senior executive officers of the Company, (v) Executive's Base Salary shall be paid through the month of death or Permanent Disability, together with any accrued, but unused, vacation pay, and (vi) Executive shall receive a benefit under the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTSMIP prorated for the fiscal year during which Executive died or became Permanently Disabled. 5.2 Termination Without Cause or for Good Reason. If the Company terminates the employment of Executive without Cause, or if Executive voluntarily terminates employment with Good Reason, (i) Executive shall receive all Accrued Benefits, (ii) Executive's pension benefit under the Non-Qualified Plan shall be based on the amount accrued to the date of termination, plus the additional amount that would have accrued during the next two years if Executive would have remained employed and received compensation described in clause (iii) below, such pension benefit to be paid in accordance with the Non-Qualified Plan, (iii) Executive's Base Salary and target bonus under the Annual Bonus Plan shall continue for a period of 24 months following such termination, (iv) Executive will be entitled to a pro rata annual bonus under the Annual Bonus Plan for the year of termination, based on actual performance and payable when bonuses are paid to other senior executives; and (vi) Executive and his dependents shall be entitled to continued participation in all health and welfare plans or programs in which Executive and such dependents were participating on the date of the termination until the earlier of (a) the second anniversary of termination of employment, and (b) the date, or dates, Executive receives equivalent coverage and benefits under the plans and programs of a subsequent employer (such coverages and benefits to be determined on a coverage-by-coverage, or benefit-by-benefit basis); provided that, to the extent Executive is precluded from continuing participation in any such plan or program as provided in this Section, the Company shall pay to Executive an amount equal to the sum of (x) with respect to insured benefits, the present value (discounted using the then published 2-year Treasury rate) of the premiums expected for coverage less any active employee portion of the premiums for the 2-year period, plus (y) with respect to benefits not insured, the present value (discounted using the then published 2-year Treasury rate) of the expected gross cost per employee to the Company to provide such benefits less active employee contributions. 5.3 Termination With Cause or Without Good Reason. If the Company terminates the employment of Executive with Cause, or if Executive voluntarily terminates employment with the Company without Good Reason, then (i) Executive shall be paid the Base Salary through the month of termination, and (ii) Executive shall receive benefits, if any, under Company plans in accordance with the terms of such plans. 5.4 Timing of Payments. Subject to Section 5.5 below, all cash payments required hereunder following the termination of Executive's employment shall be made within fifteen days following such termination; provided, that payments under the Annual Bonus Plan or the LTSMIP shall be made following the end of the applicable fiscal year at the same time as such payments are made to the Company's other senior executive officers participating in such plans and payments under the non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plans shall be made in accordance with the provisions of such plans. 5.5 Code Section 409A. It is intended that any amounts payable under this Agreement and the Company's and Executive's exercise of authority or discretion hereunder shall comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the treasury regulations relating thereto so as not to subject Executive to the payment of interest and tax penalty which may be imposed under Section 409A. In furtherance of this intent, to the extent that any regulations or other guidance issued under Section 409A after the date of this Agreement would result in the Executive being subject to the payment of such interest or tax penalty, the Company and Executive agree to amend this Agreement in order to bring this Agreement into compliance with Section 409A. 6. Nondisclosure of Confidential Information. Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, disclose any Company Confidential Information except (i) in the business of and for the benefit of the Company, while employed by the Company, or (ii) when required to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction, by any administrative body or legislative body. "Confidential Information" shall mean non-public information concerning the Company's financial data, strategic business plans, product development and other proprietary information, except for items which have become publicly available information or are otherwise known to the public. Confidential Information does not include information the disclosure of which could not reasonably be expected to adversely affect the business of the Company. 7. Noncompetition/Non-Solicitation. (a) From the Agreement Date through a period ending one year following the termination of the employment of Executive with the Company for any reason (the "Restricted Period"), Executive shall not be an executive officer, board member, 5% or greater owner or partner, or employee of a food company with revenues over $1 billion. (b) During the Restricted Period, Executive will not directly or through others, without the prior written consent of the Board (i) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any employee of the Company or its associated companies to terminate their employment with or otherwise cease their relationship with the Company or its associated companies, or (ii) solicit business or customers of the Company. (c) Executive agrees that any breach of the covenants contained in this Section 7, and the covenants contained in the preceding Section 6, will irreparably injure the Company, and accordingly the Company may, in addition to pursing any other remedies available at law or in equity, obtain an injunction against Executive from any court having jurisdiction over the matter, restraining any further violation of such provisions by Executive. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the provisions of this Section 7 are reasonable and valid in duration and scope and in all other respects. If any court determines that any provision of this Section is unenforceable because of duration or scope of such provision, such court shall have the power to reduce the scope or duration of such provision, as the case may be, and, in its reduced form, such provision shall then be enforceable. 8. Offsets. In the event of a termination of Executive's employment pursuant to Section 5.2 above or a Company breach of this Agreement, Executive shall not be required to mitigate damages nor shall the payments due Executive hereunder be reduced or offset by reason of any payments Executive may receive from any other source (except for the offset described in Section 4.2 relating to benefits under the Non-Qualified Plan and except for the offset described in Section 5.2 with respect to health and welfare plans and programs) or by any amounts owing by Executive to the Company. 9. Separability; Legal Fees. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof which shall remain in full force and effect. In addition, the Company shall pay to Executive as incurred all legal and accounting fees and expenses incurred by Executive in seeking to obtain or enforce any right or benefit provided by this Agreement or any other compensation-related plan, agreement or arrangement of the Company, unless Executive's claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been frivolous. 10. Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs and representatives of Executive and the assigns and successors of the Company, but neither this Agreement nor any rights hereunder shall be assignable or otherwise subject to hypothecation by Executive (except by will or by operation of the laws of intestate succession) or the Company, except that the Company shall assign this Agreement to any successor (whether by merger, purchase or otherwise) to all or substantially of the stock, assets or businesses of the Company. 11. Amendment. This Agreement may only be amended by mutual written agreement between the Company and Executive. 12. Notices. All notices or communications hereunder shall be in writing, addressed as follows: To the Company: ConAgra Foods, Inc. One ConAgra Drive Omaha, Nebraska 68102 Attn: Secretary To Executive: At the address shown on the records of the Company Any such notice or communication shall be sent certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as above (or to such other address as such party may designate in a notice duly delivered as described above), and the actual date of mailing shall determine the date at which notice was given. 13. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed, interpreted and governed in accordance with the laws of Delaware without reference to such state's rules relating to conflicts of law. 14. Arbitration. Any controversy or claim arising out of this Agreement or any breach shall be resolved by arbitration pursuant to this Section and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration shall be held in Omaha, Nebraska before three arbitrators who are knowledgeable of employment law. If the parties cannot agree on the appointment, one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Company, one by the Executive, and the third shall be appointed by the first two arbitrators. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator shall not have the power to award punitive or exemplary damages. Each party shall bear its own attorneys' fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association; provided, however, that, unless the arbitrators determine the position of the Executive was frivolous, Executive shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses incurred in connection with the dispute. If any portion of this paragraph is held to be unenforceable, it shall be severed and shall not affect either the duty to arbitrate or any other part of this paragraph. The Company may seek interim injunctive relief to enforce restrictive covenants pending resolution of any arbitration. 15. Company Representation. The Company represents to Executive that, as of the date hereof, all financial statements, after any amendments thereto, filed through the Agreement Date for each quarter and fiscal year since the beginning of fiscal year 2003 fairly present in all material respects the financial position and results of operations of the Company in conformity with general accepted accounting principles (except as stated in the footnotes to such financial statements) as of, and for the period ended on, the applicable reporting date. 16. Executive Representation. The Executive represents and warrants to the Company that the Executive is not a party to or bound by, and the employment of the Executive by the Company or the Executive's disclosure of any information to the Company or its use of such information will not violate or breach any employment, retainer, consulting, license, non-competition, non-disclosure, trade secrets or other agreement between the Executive and any other person, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association or other entity. 17. Entire Agreement. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings by and between the Executive and the Company and any of its Affiliates or their respective directors, officers, shareholders, employees, attorneys, agents, or representatives, and constitutes the entire agreement between the parties, respecting the subject matter hereof and there are no representations, warranties or other commitments other than those expressed herein. If there is a conflict between any provision of this Agreement and any provision of any Company plan or agreement pursuant to which employee benefits are provided to Executive, including any stock option or other award agreement, the provision most favorable to Executive will control. Executive acknowledges that certain plans maintained by the Company must comply with ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code and the terms and conditions of the plans ("Qualified Plans"). Nothing contained in this Agreement will require the Company to provide any benefit contrary to the terms and conditions of the Qualified Plans or in violation of ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. To the extent any benefit to be provided hereunder to the Executive cannot be provided through a Qualified Plan, the Company will provide the benefit on a non-qualified basis.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. By: /s/ Carl E. Reichardt ------------------------------------ Chairman, Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors /s/ Gary M. Rodkin ------------------------------------ Gary M. Rodkin

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT CONAGRA FOODS, INC. Stock Option Agreement, hereinafter referred to as the "Option" or the "Agreement" made on the 31st day of August, 2005, between ConAgra Foods, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (the "Company") and the Optionee. 1. Grant of Option. The Company hereby grants an Option on shares of the Company's common stock ("Common Stock") to the Optionee, as follows: Optionee: GARY M. RODKIN Number of Shares: 1,000,000 Exercise Price Per Share: $22.83 Date of Grant: August 31, 2005 Plan Name: The ConAgra 2000 Stock Plan Type of Option: Nonstatutory 2. Definitions: Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in an Employment Agreement between the Company and the Optionee dated effective as of August 31, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement"). IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Optionee have caused this Agreement to be executed effective as of the date first written above. The Company and the Optionee acknowledge that this Agreement includes seven pages including this page. The Optionee acknowledges reading and agreeing to all seven pages. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. OPTIONEE By: /s/ Carl E. Reichardt /s/ Gary M. Rodkin ---------------------------- --------------------------- Chairman, Human Resources Committee GARY M. RODKIN
3. Exercise of Option. This Option shall be vested and exercisable with respect to forty percent (40%) of such options on May 27, 2007; an additional thirty percent (30%) of such options on May 25, 2008; and the balance of such options on May 31, 2009. All such installments shall vest and be exercisable from the commencement date thereof and ending ten years after the date of this Agreement, all in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; in the event of Change of Control, the Option granted pursuant to this Agreement shall become immediately exercisable with respect to the full number of shares subject to this Option. The Option shall be subject to the following: (a) Right to Exercise. This Option shall be exercisable during the term of the Option, by the Optionee: (i) while the Optionee is in Continuous Employment with the Company; (ii) for a period ending 90 days after the Optionee's Continuous Employment terminates for any reason, except as provided in (v) and (vi) below. The options that may be exercised are those that are vested at the time such termination of employment occurs; (iii) for a period ending three (3) years after the Optionee qualifies for and takes Early Retirement. The options that may be exercised are those that are vested at the time Early Retirement occurs; (iv) for a period ending three (3) years after the Optionee's Normal Retirement from Continuous Employment with the Company; (v) In the event of Optionee's death, Permanent Disability, termination by the Company without Cause, or voluntary termination of employment by Optionee with Good Reason, this Option shall become fully vested and exercisable during the remainder of the term of the Option; and (vi) In the event the Company terminates the employment of the Optionee with Cause, this Option shall terminate and all unexercised options shall lapse. (b) Method of Exercise. This Option shall be exercisable by a written notice which shall: (i) state the election to exercise the Option, the number of shares in respect of which it is being exercised, the person in whose name the stock certificate or certificates for such shares of Common Stock is to be registered, his/her address and social security number; (ii) be signed by the person or persons entitled to exercise the Option and, if the Option is being exercised by any person or persons other than the Optionee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option. Payment of the purchase price of any shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised shall be by check, and shall be delivered with notice of exercise; provided, however, at the election of the Optionee, the amount equal to the purchase price may be paid, in whole or in part, in Common Stock of the Company valued at fair market value (as defined in the Plan). (c) Restrictions on Exercise. As a condition to exercise of this Option, the Company may require the person exercising this Option to make any representation and warranty to the Company as may be required by any applicable law or regulation. (d) Payment of Taxes Upon Exercise. As a condition of the issuance of shares hereunder, the Optionee agrees to remit to the Company at the time of exercise of this Option any taxes required to be withheld by the Company under Federal, state or local law as a result of the exercise. The Optionee may remit such amount by check or by a reduction of the number of shares to be delivered to the Optionee upon exercise. 4. Cancellation of Options. Except as otherwise provided herein, upon the Optionee's termination of employment, unvested options shall immediately cancel and any vested options not exercised during the exercise period set forth in Paragraph 3(a) shall be cancelled at the end of the exercise period. 5. Non-Transferability of Option. Except as may otherwise be permitted by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors, this Option may not be assigned, transferred, pledged or hypothecated in any manner (otherwise than by will or the laws of descent or distribution) nor may the Optionee enter into any transaction for the purpose of, or which as the effect of, reducing the market risk of holding the option by using puts, calls or similar financial techniques. This Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee. The terms of this Option shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and assigns of the Optionee. 6. Stock Subject to the Option. If the Option should expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full, any unpurchased shares which were subject thereto shall once again be subject to the grant of an Option pursuant to the Plan. The Company will not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares to be issued hereunder until such shares have been listed (or authorized for listing upon official notice of issuance) upon each stock exchange on which outstanding shares of the same class are then listed and until the Company has taken such steps as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be required by law and applicable regulations, including the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and State Securities laws and regulations, in connection with the issuance or sale of such shares, and the listing of such shares on each such exchange. The Company will use its best efforts to comply with any such requirements. 7. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization. If all or any portion of the Option is exercised subsequent to any stock dividend, upon subdivision, split-up, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock or a merger or consolidation involving the Company, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors shall make equitable adjustment in the number of shares subject to this Option and adjustment in the per share Option Price, provided, however, that no fractional share shall be issued upon subsequent exercise of the Option and the aggregate price paid shall be appropriately reduced on account of any fractional share not issued. 8. Notices. Each notice relating to this Agreement shall be in writing. Each notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date it is received. Each notice to the Company shall be addressed to its principal office in Omaha, Nebraska, attention to Corporate Compensation. Each notice to the Optionee or any other person or persons entitled to exercise the Option shall be addressed to the Optionee's address as shown on the Company's records. Anyone to whom a notice may be given under this Agreement may designate a new address by notice to the effect. 9. Benefits of Agreement. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon each successor of the Company. All obligations imposed upon the Optionee and all rights granted to the Company under this Agreement shall be binding upon the Optionee's heirs, legal representatives and successors. This Agreement shall be the sole and exclusive source of any and all rights which the Optionee, his heirs and legal representatives or successors may have in respect to the Plan or any Options or Common Stock granted or issued thereunder whether to himself or to any other person. 10. Resolution of Disputes. Any dispute or disagreement which should arise under or as a result of or in any way related to the interpretation, construction or application of this Agreement will be determined by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. Any determination made hereunder shall be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes. This Agreement and the legal relations between the parties hereto shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Nebraska. 11. Definitions. (a) Change of Control. Change of Control shall mean: (i) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or "group," within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), (excluding, for this purpose, the Company or its subsidiaries, or any employee benefit plan of the Company or its subsidiaries which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (as of the date hereof the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for the election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, in each case, with respect to which persons who were the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than 50% of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities, or a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. (b) Continuous Employment with the Company. Continuous Employment with the Company shall mean the absence of any interruption or termination of employment by the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company which now exists or hereafter is organized or acquired by the Company. Continuous Employment shall not be considered interrupted in the case of sick leave, Long Term Disability, military leave or any other leave of absence approved by the Company or in the case of transfers between payroll locations of the Company or between the Company, its parent or subsidiaries or its successor. (c) Normal Retirement. Normal Retirement shall mean terminating employment with the Company or its subsidiaries on or after attaining age 65. (d) Early Retirement. Early Retirement shall mean (1) qualifying for and taking early retirement under a pension plan (as defined in ss. 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended) that is sponsored by the Company or its subsidiaries or (2) becoming Retiree Eligible as a result of Continuous Employment to the fifth anniversary of the date of the Employment Agreement. If the Optionee's employer does not have a pension plan, then the Company's salaried pension plan provisions for Early Retirement shall apply, which provide that the Optionee must (a) be at least age 55, and (b) have at least ten years of Continuous Employment with the Company.

AGREEMENT Agreement made this 31st day of August, 2005, by and between ConAgra Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation, hereinafter referred to as "ConAgra", and Gary M. Rodkin, hereinafter referred to as "Employee". WHEREAS, ConAgra and Employee have entered into an Employment Agreement dated August 31, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement"), and WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of ConAgra ("Board") has determined that the interests of ConAgra stockholders will be best served by assuring that all key corporate executives of ConAgra will adhere to the policy of the Board with respect to any event by which another entity would acquire effective control of ConAgra, including but not limited to a tender offer, and WHEREAS, the Board has also determined that it is in the best interests of ConAgra stockholders to promote stability among key executives and employees. NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows: 1. Duties of Employee. Employee shall support the position of the Board and shall take any action requested by the Board with respect to any "Change of Control" (as defined at Section 7 below) of ConAgra. If the Employee violates the provisions of this Section, the Employee shall forfeit any payments due under the terms of this Agreement. 2. Employment Contract. If a Change of Control of ConAgra occurs, and if at the initiation of the Change of Control attempt Employee is then employed by ConAgra, ConAgra hereby agrees to continue the employment of Employee for a period of three years from the date the Change of Control effectively occurs. During said three year period, Employee shall receive annual base and incentive compensation in an amount not less than that specified in Section 3(a) below. If Employee is Involuntarily Terminated (as defined at Section 7 below), at any time during the three year period, ConAgra shall pay to Employee an amount equal to that which Employee would have received pursuant to Section 3(a) below for the remainder of the three year period, and shall also make the payments specified in Sections 3(b) and 3(c) and, if applicable, any additional payments specified in Section 5 below. Any such termination payment of base and incentive compensation shall be made to Employee in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after termination. If Employee voluntarily terminates employment at any time during the three year period, the Acquiror (as defined below), ConAgra, and their subsidiaries will not be obligated to pay the Employee any amount that might be due for the remainder of the three year period, or for any termination pay; however, they shall make any additional payments specified in Sections 3(b), 3(c) and 5 (if applicable) below. 3. Description of Payments. The payments to be made to Employee are: (a) Annual Base and Incentive Compensation. Employee shall receive for the three year period described in Section 2 above an annual amount equal to the Employee's current annual rate of compensation, which current annual compensation shall be computed as follows: twenty-six times the Employee's highest bi-weekly salary payment received during the one year period ending immediately prior to the Change of Control of ConAgra. In addition, Employee shall receive (i) an amount for short term incentive equal to the larger of (I) the short term incentive target, if any, most recently approved by the Human Resources Committee of the Board ("Committee"), and (II) the highest of the three actual short term incentive awards (including deferred amounts) made to Employee for the three fiscal years immediately preceding such Change of Control, plus (ii) an amount for the Long Term Senior Management Incentive Plan Award equal to the highest per unit award made during the three fiscal years immediately preceding such Change of Control multiplied by the number of units of participation approved by the Committee for the current fiscal year. (b) Retirement Benefits. Employee shall receive an amount equal to that which the Employee would have received as retirement benefits under the provisions of the ConAgra Pension Plan for Salaried Employees ("Qualified Pension Plan") and the ConAgra Retirement Income Savings Plan ("CRISP") in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control of ConAgra, had Employee continued employment until age 65 at the current annual rate of base and short term incentive compensation as determined above and assuming no limitations under Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"). (i) The supplemental pension benefit hereunder shall be equal to the result of subtracting (x) the benefit the Employee will receive under the Qualified Pension Plan from (y) the pension benefit the Employee would obtain under the Qualified Pension Plan if the Employee remained in the employ of ConAgra until the Employee attained age 65. The supplemental pension benefit is to be computed assuming the Employee is to receive an unreduced normal retirement pension benefit payable beginning at the later of the date the Employee attains age 60 or the date of the Employee's termination of employment. If the Employee begins to receive the supplemental pension benefit at a time other than as described in the preceding sentence, an actuarial adjustment shall be made to reflect such event. The supplemental pension benefit shall be reduced by the amount of benefit received from the ConAgra Nonqualified Pension Plan (or any successor plan) which relates to periods following the Employee's termination of employment. (ii) The supplemental CRISP benefit shall be equal to the amount computed, as follows: A. The additional years of service that the Employee would receive if employment was not terminated prior to attaining age 65 is multiplied by the Employee's current annual base and short term incentive compensation (as described in Section 3(a)). B. The result in A, immediately above, is multiplied by 3%. C. The result in B, immediately above, is present valued to the date of the Employee's termination of employment. The discount factor for such present value shall be the discount factor used by the Qualified Pension Plan at the time of such termination of employment. The present value shall be computed based on the assumption that the result in B, immediately above, is paid ratably (and monthly) over the additional years of service of the Employee. D. The present value amount determined pursuant to C, immediately above, shall be funded pursuant to Subsection (iv) of this Section 3(b). (iii) For purposes of computing the amounts described in Sections 3(b)(i)(y) and 3(b)(ii)A, the following shall apply: A. The total amount of current annual base pay and short term incentive pay (as described in Section 3(a)) shall be used without any reduction for the limitation imposed upon compensation by Code Section 401(a)(17) (or any successor section thereto). B. The limitations imposed by Code Section 415 shall not apply. C. If, at the time of termination, the Employee is not eligible to participate in the Qualified Pension Plan, the amount computed under Section 3(b)(1) shall be based solely on the years after termination of employment. D. If, at the time of termination, the Employee is not eligible to participate in the Qualified Plan, but does participate in a defined benefit plan of ConAgra, its successor, or one of their affiliates ("Other Defined Benefit Plan"), the Employee shall receive an additional supplemental benefit equal to the result of subtracting (x) the benefit the Employee will receive from the Other Defined Benefit Plan from (y) the benefit the Employee would receive from the Other Defined Benefit Plan assuming the Employee is to receive an unreduced normal retirement pension benefit payable beginning at the later of the date the Employee attains age 60 or the date of the Employee's termination and assuming the Employee's pay, for purposes of calculating the Employee's Other Defined Benefit Plan benefit, is, and always has been, equal to the Employee's current annual base pay and short term incentive (as described in Section 3(a)). (iv) The actuarial assumptions and methods used by this Section 3(b) shall be the same as those used by the Qualified Pension Plan. The timing of payment and the form of the supplemental pension benefit under this Section 3(b) shall be the same as elected by the Employee under the Qualified Pension Plan and the timing of payment and the form of the supplemental CRISP benefit shall be the same as elected by the Employee under CRISP. If the Employee does not participate in the Qualified Pension Plan and/or CRISP, the Employee shall elect (from the respective options under the Qualified Pension Plan and CRISP) the timing and form of the supplemental pension and CRISP benefits; (v) The supplemental pension and CRISP benefits payable under this Section 3(b) shall be unfunded until a Voluntary Termination or Involuntary Termination following a Change of Control. Within 60 days following such a termination, the supplemental pension and CRISP benefits shall be funded, in one lump sum payment, through a trust in the form attached to the ConAgra Supplemental Pension and CRISP Plan for Change of Control and which trust is incorporated by reference. The transferred amount for the supplemental CRISP benefit shall be held in a separate account and separately invested by the trustee. The amount accumulated in such account shall be the sole source of payment of the supplemental CRISP benefit, and shall be the amount of the supplemental CRISP benefit hereunder. The Acquiror, ConAgra and their subsidiaries shall make up any supplemental pension benefit payments the Employee does not receive under the trust, e.g., if the funds in the trust are insufficient to make the payments due to insufficient earnings in the trust. The trustee of such trust shall be a national or state chartered bank. If funding of the trust is not made within the sixty day period described in this Subsection (iv) of this Section 3(b), the Employee's supplemental pension and CRISP benefits shall then be equal to the product of 150% multiplied by the amount of supplemental pension and CRISP benefits described in this Section 3(b) above; provided, however, this increase in benefits is not intended to remove or detract from the obligation to fund the trust. The supplemental pension and CRISP benefits shall not be paid from the assets of the Qualified Pension Plan or CRISP. (c) Additional Payment. If a Change of Control of ConAgra occurs, Employee shall receive an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the highest per share price offered (valued in U.S. currency) by the successful Acquiror for ConAgra common stock (which stock will then be treated for purposes of this Agreement as converted into equivalent shares of such Acquiror's or the surviving company's capital stock as of the date of the Change of Control of ConAgra) over the closing per share price of such Acquiror's or the surviving company's ("Acquiror") stock quoted on an established securities market (or if applicable, the closing bid price for the Acquiror's stock that is quoted on a secondary market or substantial equivalent thereof) on the date of termination (or if the date of termination is not a business day, on the next preceding business day), multiplied by the highest number of shares of the Acquiror's capital stock owned by the Employee at any time during the period beginning on the date of the Change of Control of ConAgra and ending on the date of termination. For purposes of this Section 3(c), the additional amount due hereunder shall be computed as if Employee owned all of the Acquiror's stock with respect to which Employee has an option to purchase in connection with employment with the Acquiror, ConAgra or any of their subsidiaries. Said amount shall be paid to Employee within ten days after termination. In addition, if Employee sells any of the Acquiror's stock within one year following said termination, Employee shall receive the amount by which the closing price of such stock per share on the date of termination (determined as aforesaid) exceeds the per share actual net sales price of the Acquiror's stock on the date of sale realized by Employee, multiplied by the number of shares sold by Employee. Said amount shall be paid in immediately available funds to Employee within ten days after the sale. In addition, to the extent any of ConAgra's common stock remains outstanding after a Change of Control, then Employee shall receive additional amounts computed and payable in a manner similar to that provided in this Section 3(c) for Acquiror's stock owned, or subject to an option held, by Employee. These provisions shall be appropriately modified or adjusted to take into account the fact that the computations pursuant to the preceding sentence are with respect to ConAgra common stock and related options rather than the Acquiror's capital stock and options related thereto. The computations and payments under this Section 3(c) shall include appropriate adjustments for any stock splits, stock dividends, recapitalizations or similar share restructurings that may occur from time to time. 4. Merger. ConAgra shall not merge, reorganize, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of its assets, to or with any other corporation until such corporation and its subsidiaries, if any, expressly assume the duties of ConAgra set forth herein. 5. Certain Additional Payments by ConAgra. (a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by ConAgra to or for the benefit of the Employee, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment"), would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in any amount such that after payment by the Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including any Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. (b) Subject to the provisions of Subsection (c) below, all determinations required to be made under this Section, including whether a Gross-Up Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the certified public accounting firm then representing ConAgra (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to ConAgra and the Employee within 15 business days of the date of termination, if applicable, or such earlier time as is requested by ConAgra or Employee. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Employee, it shall furnish the Employee with an opinion that Employee has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on the Employee's federal income tax return. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon ConAgra and the Employee. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not have been made by ConAgra should have been made ("Underpayment"), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that ConAgra exhausts its remedies pursuant to Subsection (c) below and the Employee thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by ConAgra to or for the benefit of the Employee. (c) The Employee shall notify ConAgra in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by ConAgra of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable but no later than ten (10) business days after the Employee knows of such claim and shall apprise ConAgra of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Employee shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the thirty-day (30 day) period following the date on which it gives such notice to ConAgra (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If ConAgra notifies the Employee in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Employee shall: (i) give ConAgra any information reasonably requested by ConAgra relating to such claim, (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as ConAgra shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by ConAgra, (iii) cooperate with ConAgra in good faith in order to effectively contest such claim, (iv) permit ConAgra to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim; provided, however, that ConAgra shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Subsection (c), ConAgra shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either direct the Employee to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Employee agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as ConAgra shall determine; provided, however, that if ConAgra directs the Employee to pay such claim and sue for a refund, ConAgra shall advance the amount of such payment to the Employee, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest or penalties with respect thereto, imposed with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Employee with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, ConAgra's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Employee shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority. (d) If, after the receipt by the Employee of an amount advanced by ConAgra pursuant to Subsection (c) above, the Employee becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to such claim, the Employee shall (subject to ConAgra's complying with the requirements of Subsection (c)) promptly pay to ConAgra the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after the receipt by the Employee of an amount advanced by ConAgra pursuant to Subsection (c), a determination is made that the Employee shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and ConAgra does not notify the Employee in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty days after such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid. 6. Term and Binding Effect. This Agreement shall bind ConAgra and Employee as long as Employee remains in the employ of ConAgra; provided, however, ConAgra may terminate this Agreement at any time by giving notice to Employee; and provided further, however, that ConAgra may not terminate this Agreement at any time subsequent to the announcement of an event that could result in a Change of Control of ConAgra. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, executors, administrators and successors. 7. Certain Definitions. The following definitions shall apply for the purposes of this Agreement: (a) Change of Control of ConAgra. The term "Change of Control" shall mean: (i) The acquisition (other than from ConAgra) by any person, entity or "group", within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), (excluding, for this purpose, ConAgra or its subsidiaries, or any employee benefit plan of ConAgra or its subsidiaries, which acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of ConAgra) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock or the combined voting power of ConAgra's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or (ii) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (as of the date hereof the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by ConAgra's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or (iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation, in each case, with respect to which persons who were the shareholders of ConAgra immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation do not, immediately thereafter, own more than 50% of the combined voting power entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the reorganized, merged or consolidated company's then outstanding voting securities, or a liquidation or dissolution of ConAgra or of the sale of all or substantially all of its assets. (b) Involuntary Termination. The term "Involuntary Termination" or any variation thereof shall mean either (i) the actual involuntary termination of Employee's employment with the Acquiror, ConAgra and their subsidiaries after a Change of Control (with or without cause) or (ii) the constructive involuntary termination of the Employee's employment with the Acquiror, ConAgra and their subsidiaries after a Change of Control. The term "constructive involuntary termination" shall include (w) a reduction in the Employee's compensation (including applicable fringe benefits); (x) a substantial change in the location of the Employee's job without the Employee's written consent; (y) the Employee's demotion or diminution in the Employee's position, authority, duties or responsibilities without the Employee's written consent; or (z) the sale or disposition of the stock of Employee's immediate employer, which was a subsidiary of the Acquiror, ConAgra, or their other subsidiaries immediately prior to such sale or disposition, provided Employee is not employed after such sale or disposition by the Acquiror, ConAgra, or any of their subsidiaries that are retained after such sale or disposition. "Substantial change in location" means any location change in excess of 35 miles from the location of the Employee's job with ConAgra or its subsidiaries at the time of the Change of Control of ConAgra. 8. Costs. All costs of litigation necessary for the Employee to defend the validity of this contract are to be paid by ConAgra or its successors or assigns. 9. Code Section 409A. It is intended that any amounts payable under this Agreement and the ConAgra and Employee exercise of authority or discretion hereunder shall comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the treasury regulations relating thereto so as not to subject Employee to the payment of interest and tax penalty which may be imposed under Section 409A. In furtherance of this intent, to the extent that any regulations or other guidance issued under Section 409A after the date of this Agreement would result in the Employee being subject to the payment of such interest or tax penalty, ConAgra and Employee agree to amend this Agreement in order to bring this Agreement into compliance with Section 409A. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement. CONAGRA FOODS, INC. By: /s/ Carl E. Reichardt /s/ Gary M. Rodkin ----------------------------- ------------------------- Chairman, Human Resources Committee Gary M. Rodkin (Employee)


