FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20061221080201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
December 21, 2006
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
(402) 595-4000
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On December 21, 2006, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing certain information on second quarter fiscal 2007 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. The press release contains the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted earnings per share for the Company and adjusted operating profit at the Company's Consumer Foods, Food and Ingredients and International Foods segments, each of which management believes provides a useful measure for investors in examining the Company's operational results during the quarter and facilitates period-to-period comparisons.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued December 21, 2006
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued December 21, 2006....................................................................
 
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers.......................................................................................
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CONAGRA FOODS REPORTS STRONG FISCAL 2007 SECOND-QUARTER
EPS RESULTS; MARGIN EXPANSION DRIVES HIGHER
FISCAL YEAR 2007 EPS EXPECTATIONS
 
OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 21, 2006  ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2007 second quarter ended Nov. 26, 2006. Second-quarter fiscal 2007 diluted earnings per share were $0.43, 48% above the $0.29 earned in the year-ago period. Current-quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.43 include $0.03 per share of income from items that impact comparability; excluding these items, second-quarter diluted earnings per share were $0.40, up 38% from the comparable $0.29 in the year-ago period. Items impacting comparability are summarized toward the end of this release.
 
Gary Rodkin, chief executive officer of ConAgra Foods, commented, "Rapid expansion of our operating margins is helping build a solid foundation for the future. Together with earlier than expected completion of key divestitures, this is providing a significant boost to our fiscal 2007 results."
 
He continued, "Our progress puts us on track for a better EPS performance this year than we originally expected, and is providing the fuel that will allow us to make increased marketing and innovation investments. Although we expect productivity gains to be the main driver of solid
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
earnings performance throughout the remainder of fiscal 2007, our marketing investments will help us deliver future bottom-line improvements through top-line growth in key brands."
 
Consumer Foods Segment (56% of YTD sales)
Branded consumer products sold in retail and foodservice channels;
excludes international consumer operations.
 
For the quarter, sales for the Consumer Foods segment were $1.8 billion, in line with the same period last year. Improved mix, pricing gains and more effective trade spending contributed to the solid sales performance for key brands. A list of major brand sales gains and declines is included in the question-and-answer supplement to this release and is posted on the company's Web site.
 
 
 
Segment operating profit was $287 million for the quarter, 17% above the $245 million reported for last year. Current-quarter operating profit of $287 million includes $28 million of restructuring charges; excluding these charges, operating profit was $315 million, up 29% over the $245 million reported for the year-ago period. The operating profit performance reflects cost savings, more effective trade spending and mix improvement, which more than offset increased advertising and promotion investment behind key brands. Profitability for the company's priority investment brands increased, as did the profits for the lower-priority brands.
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
Food and Ingredients Segment (30% of YTD sales)
Specialty potato, dehydrated vegetable, seasonings, blends, flavors, and milled grain products
sold to foodservice and commercial channels worldwide.
 
For the quarter, sales for the Food and Ingredients
segment were $886 million, 10% ahead of last year. The increase reflects higher flour prices driven by increased input costs, stronger volumes for potato products, as well as better prices and sales mix across several other product lines.
 
Segment operating profit was $118 million for the quarter, 28% ahead of the $92 million reported for last year. Current-quarter operating profit of $118 million includes $26 million of gains resulting from a divestiture and an insurance settlement; excluding these gains, operating profit was $92 million, roughly equal to the $92 million reported for the year-ago period. On a comparable basis, operating profit growth for potato products and other operations offset lower milling margins resulting from higher input costs.
 
Trading and Merchandising Segment (9% of YTD sales)
Trading and merchandising agricultural commodities, fertilizer, and energy worldwide.
 
For the quarter, sales for the Trading and Merchandising segment were $297 million, 3% ahead of year-ago amounts. Segment operating profit was $39 million, 19% ahead of the $33 million reported for last year. Strong results for energy trading more than offset the operating profit declines for agricultural commodities and wholesale fertilizer operations.
 
International Foods Segment (5% of YTD sales)
Branded consumer products sold internationally to retail channels.
 
For the quarter, sales for the International Foods segment were $154 million, 1% below year-ago amounts. Segment operating profit was $18 million for the quarter, ahead of the $15 million reported for last year. Current-quarter operating profit of $18 million includes a gain of $4 million resulting from divesting a non-core asset; excluding this gain, operating profit was $14 million, slightly below the $15 million reported for the year-ago period. On a comparable basis, an operating
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
profit decline for Mexican operations and an increase in overall marketing investment offset operating profit increases for Canadian operations and other markets.
 
Other Items
 
 
 
 
Capital Items
Combined gross pretax proceeds from the above transactions were approximately $740 million.
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Based on excellent progress to date, the company expects fiscal 2007 diluted EPS, excluding items impacting comparability, to be in the range of $1.28 - $1.33. This reflects the benefit from the earlier than expected completion of key divestitures and ongoing progress with cost savings, mix and trade spend effectiveness, as well as the benefit from share repurchases already completed. The company is not planning for its Trading and Merchandising segment to repeat the exceptional performance it had in the third quarter of last year. The company is planning for increased marketing investment in the second half of the year.
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
Major Items Affecting Second-Quarter Fiscal 2007 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.43 diluted EPS for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
Included in the $0.29 diluted EPS for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EST today to discuss second-quarter results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-800-819-9193 and 1-913-981-4911, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at www.conagrafoods.com/investors.
 
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EST on Dec. 21, 2006. To access the digital replay, a pass code will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112 and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 4798142. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
 
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at www.conagrafoods.com/investors. To view recent company news, please visit www.conagrafoods.com/media.
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE:CAG), is one of North America's leading packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include:
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt
'
s, Marie Callender
'
s, Orville Redenbacher
'
s, PAM, Reddi-wip,
and many others.
 
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
 
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
 
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, gain on sale of Pilgrim's Pride Corporation common stock, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
 
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
 
 
more
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
 
 
 
# # #
 
 

 
ConAgra Foods
 
Q2 FY07 Question & Answer
December 21, 2006
 
 
DAVID
Egg Beaters
Healthy Choice
Hebrew National
Hunt's
Kid Cuisine
Marie Callender's
Manwich
Orville Redenbacher's
PAM
Parkay
Peter Pan
Reddi-wip
Rosarita
Slim Jim
Swiss Miss
Wesson
Wolf
 
 
ACT II
Banquet
Blue Bonnet
Chef Boyardee
Knott's Berry Farm
LaChoy
Libby's
VanCamp's
 
 
Approximately $88 million (versus approximately $74 million in Q2 2006)
 
 
 
Page 1 of 5
 
Approximately $177 million (versus $149 million through Q2 2006)
 
 
Approximately $66 million (versus approximately $60 million in Q2 2006)
 
 
Approximately $111 million (versus $120 million through Q2 2006)
 
 
Approximately $52 million (versus approximately $69 million in Q2 2006)
 
 
Approximately $110 million (versus approximately $141 million through Q2 2006)
 
 
Approximately $92 million, including approximately $4 million of expense related to restructuring charges and a $7 million benefit resulting from a favorable franchise tax resolution (versus approximately $103 million in Q2 2006, including $19 million of expense related to the accelerated recognition of benefits in connection with the transition of certain executives)
 
 
$92 million
 
 
$185 million
 
 
511 million shares
 
 
Gross margin = gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $810/$3,089 = 26.2%
 
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $462/$3,089 = 15.0%
 
* Gross profit = net sales  costs of goods sold ($3,089  $2,279 = $810)
 
**See second-quarter segment operating results for a reconciliation of operating profit to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss). Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss), divided by net sales = $318/$3,089 = 10.3%.
 
Page 2 of 5
 
 
 
 
* Total debt = notes payable, short-term debt, long-term debt, and subordinated debt.
 
 
37% currently and 42% a year ago
 
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholder equity. See question #14 for the components of net debt.
 
 
The company plans for a tax rate of 36% on pretax earnings excluding items that impact comparability.
 
 
Approximately $450 million
 
 
Approximately $225 million
 
 
Expensing of stock options resulted in recognizing increased expense of approximately $5 million pretax.
 
 
Consumer Foods:
Cost of goods soldapproximately $17 million
SG&A expenseapproximately $11 million
 
Corporate:
SG&A expenseapproximately $4 million.
 
 
Page 3 of 5
 
 
 
 
The company is aggressively pursuing SG&A cost reductions, particularly focusing on costs that were associated with the recently divested businesses. As part of the divestiture agreements, the company is providing some transition services to the buyers; the company will therefore not significantly change all of the applicable SG&A activities or reduce the related costs until it stops providing the services. The buyers are reimbursing the company for these services, and the company considers the amount of the reimbursement to roughly represent amounts identified for cost reduction once the services and reimbursement have stopped. Excluding reimbursement for direct pass-through costs, buyer payment to ConAgra Foods during the fiscal 2007 second quarter was approximately $6 million for fixed-cost related items.
 
 
Major Items Affecting Third-Quarter Fiscal 2006 EPS
 
Included in the $0.19 diluted EPS from Continuing Operations (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
Page 4 of 5
 
 
Major Items Affecting Fourth-Quarter Fiscal 2006 EPS
 
Included in the $0.11 diluted EPS from Continuing Operations (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 
 
Page 5 of 5
 
 


