FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20060921080014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
September 21, 2006
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
(402) 595-4000
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On September 21, 2006, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing certain information on first quarter fiscal 2007 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively. The press release contains the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted for restructuring costs, which management believes provides a useful measure for investors in examining the Company's operational results during the quarter and facilitates period-to-period comparisons. The press release also contains the non-GAAP financial measure of corporate expense adjusted for restructuring charges, which management believes provides a useful measure for investors to use when examining underlying corporate expense trends.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued September 21, 2006
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued September 21, 2006..................................................................
 
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers.......................................................................................
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CONAGRA FOODS REPORTS BETTER-THAN-EXPECTED EPS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS; RAISES FISCAL YEAR 2007 EPS EXPECTATIONS BY $0.05
 
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 21, 2006  ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported preliminary results for the fiscal 2007 first quarter ended Aug. 27, 2006. Today's results are preliminary because the results of discontinued operations have not yet been finalized to reflect items being adjusted in preparation for the closing of the refrigerated meats transaction; these adjustments are customary in transactions of this nature and may affect the results from discontinued operations in the first quarter.
 
Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.21, including $0.05 per diluted share of restructuring costs. Diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.26 excluding restructuring costs was higher than the company originally expected when it gave guidance last June. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
 
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "I am pleased with our progress on cost savings and on completing the divestitures outlined last March. Rapid implementation of the divestiture program allows us to focus on further cost-reduction opportunities earlier than originally expected. We will allocate an increasing portion of the savings toward high-quality marketing
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
programs and investments in innovation, a process which will likely accelerate through the balance of fiscal 2007."
 
He continued, "In addition, we are reducing fixed manufacturing costs by implementing the first steps of our plant rationalization program originally announced last March and further detailed last week. That program, along with other supply chain improvement initiatives, is expected to generate savings that help us offset inflation, increase marketing investment, and deliver sustainable earnings growth. Today we have raised our expectations for fiscal 2007 EPS performance from continuing operations by $0.05 per diluted share based upon our confidence in the company's ability to improve efficiencies. We will update investors periodically on how our operating initiatives and capital allocation decisions impact the fiscal 2007 outlook."
 
Consumer Foods Segment (56% of first-quarter sales)
Branded consumer products sold in retail and foodservice channels;
excludes international consumer operations.
 
For the quarter, sales for the Consumer Foods segment were $1.5 billion, 1% ahead of last year. Volume grew 1%. The high-focus brands as a group, which represent more than two-thirds of segment sales, posted 4% sales growth that more than offset revenue declines in lower-priority brands. The lower-priority brands as a whole produced increased profits, as the company improved its trade efficiency and customer and product mix on these brands. A list of major brand gains and declines is included in the question-and-answer supplement to this release, which is posted on the company's Web site.
 
Segment operating profit was $181 million for the quarter, 9% ahead of the $166 million reported for last year, largely reflecting more efficient operations and mix improvement. Excluding restructuring charges of $26 million in the current quarter, operating profit increased 24% over year-ago amounts. Advertising and promotion expense was slightly lower than in the year-ago period, but is expected to increase throughout the balance of fiscal 2007 behind more effective marketing programs that have now been developed.
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
Food and Ingredients Segment (31% of first-quarter sales)
Specialty potato, dehydrated vegetable, seasonings, blends, flavors, and milled grain products
sold to foodservice and commercial channels worldwide.
 
During the quarter, sales for the Food and Ingredients
segment were $832 million, 8% ahead of last year. The increase reflects stronger volumes for the Lamb Weston specialty potato operations and Gilroy Foods vegetable operations, as well as higher prices and better mix across several product lines.
 
Segment operating profit was $106 million for the quarter, 10% ahead of the $96 million reported for last year, primarily reflecting the sales gains.
 
Trading and Merchandising Segment (8% of first-quarter sales)
Trading and merchandising agricultural commodities, fertilizer, and energy worldwide.
 
During the quarter, sales for the Trading and Merchandising segment were $205 million, 21% below year-ago amounts; operating profit was $16 million, 71% below the $54 million reported for last year. As expected, the profit decrease was primarily driven by less favorable trading conditions for energy-related products and agricultural commodities, as well as lower selling prices for the wholesale fertilizer operations.
 
International Foods Segment (5% of first-quarter sales)
Branded consumer products sold internationally to retail channels.
 
During the quarter, sales for the International Foods segment were $142 million, 1% below year-ago amounts. Segment operating profit was $13 million for the quarter; the operating profit in the year-ago period was $10 million, which included $6 million of expense associated with a plant closure.
 
Other Items
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Items
Regarding transactions, the company:
 
 
 
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
Outlook
The company is raising its overall fiscal 2007 EPS expectations from continuing operations by $0.05 per diluted share to a range of $1.17 - $1.22. Those amounts exclude items impacting comparability and any additional benefit from applying divestiture proceeds. The company will comment further on its fiscal 2007 EPS expectations as the fiscal year progresses and as the company finalizes the timing and amount of increased marketing investment and cost savings, as well as the application of divestiture proceeds.
 
Accounting Method Change
During the first quarter, the company changed its method of accounting for advertising expense for interim periods so that all advertising expense is recognized as incurred. Previously, the company recognized advertising costs in interim periods based upon sales volumes for the interim period as a proportion of estimated annual sales volumes. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change.
 
The method change will alter the quarterly distribution of advertising expense, although the change will have no impact on total advertising expense reported for the current or any prior fiscal year. The impact of the change on the first quarter fiscal 2007 results was not material. In the second quarter, the company currently expects the change in accounting to result in $0.02 to $0.04 per diluted share of additional advertising expense that would have been recognized later in the year under the previous method. Independent of the method change, the company expects increased marketing investment in the balance of the fiscal year related to its innovation and sales growth initiatives.
 
Changes to Historical Amounts
The accounting method change discussed above, the reclassification of one of the company's smaller businesses to discontinued operations, and the reclassification of interest expense from cost of goods sold within the Food and Ingredients segment resulted in some changes to historical amounts. Please see the question-and-answer supplement for this release, which provides historical amounts reflecting these changes; this document can be found at www.conagrafoods.com/investors.
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
Preliminary Results
Today's results are preliminary because the results of discontinued operations have not yet been finalized to reflect items being adjusted in preparation for the closing of the sale of the refrigerated meats transaction; these adjustments are customary in transactions of this nature and may affect the results from discontinued operations in the first quarter. EPS from discontinued operations, excluding pending items related to the refrigerated meats divestiture and a gain of approximately $0.07 per share from other divestitures completed during the quarter, was in the range of the $0.05 contributed by discontinued operations in the year-ago period. The company will provide the results of its discontinued operations in its 10-Q filing.
 
Major Items Affecting First-Quarter Fiscal 2007 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.21 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
Included in the $0.61 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (EPS amounts after tax):
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss first-quarter results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-800-811-8830 and 1-913-981-4904, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at www.conagrafoods.com/investors.
 
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT. To access the digital replay, a pass code will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112 and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 6705460. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
 
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at www.conagrafoods.com/investors. To view recent company news, please visit www.conagrafoods.com/media.
 
Annual Stockholders' Meeting Webcast
The company will webcast its Fiscal 2006 Annual Stockholders' Meeting on Thursday, Sept. 28, 2006. This event will be webcast live beginning at 2:30 p.m. EDT. The webcast will be archived starting at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Thursday, Sept. 28 and can be accessed at www.conagrafoods.com/investors.
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include:
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt
'
s, Marie Callender
'
s, Orville Redenbacher
'
s, PAM, Reddi-wip,
and many others.
 
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, gain on sale of Pilgrim's Pride Corporation common stock, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
 
 
more
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
 
 
 
# # #
 
 

 
 
Q1 FY07 Question & Answer
September 21, 2006
 
Note: The company considers the amounts in today's press release preliminary for reasons described on Page 6 of the release.
 
 
Banquet
Chef Boyardee
DAVID
Hebrew National
Hunt's
Kid Cuisine
Marie Callender's
Orville Redenbacher's
PAM
Reddi-wip
Rosarita
Ro*Tel
Slim Jim
Snack Pack
 
 
ACT II
Egg Beaters
Healthy Choice
LaChoy
Manwich
Parkay
Swiss Miss
VanCamp's
Wesson
 
 
Consumer Foods volume increased 1% in the current quarter.
 
Food and Ingredients volume increased 2% in the current quarter.
 
Page 1 of 7
 
 
Approximately $89 million (versus approximately $75 million in Q1 2006)
 
 
Approximately $46 million (versus approximately $61 million in Q1 2006)
 
 
Approximately $58 million (versus approximately $72 million in Q1 2006)
 
 
Approximately $90 million including approximately $13 million of restructuring charges (versus approximately $73 million in Q1 2006)
 
 
$93 million
 
 
512 million shares
 
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for the quarter was 36%.
 
 
Gross Margin = Gross Profit* divided by Net Sales
Gross Margin = $663/$2,689 = 24.7%
 
Operating Margin = Segment Operating Profit** divided by Net Sales
Operating Margin = $316/$2,689 = 11.7%
 
* Gross Profit = Net Sales  Costs of Goods Sold ($2,689  $2,026 = $663)
 
**See first-quarter segment operating results for a reconciliation of Operating Profit to Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss). Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss), divided by Net Sales = $168/$2,689 = 6.2%.
 
 
Trade working capital is defined as the net position of Accounts Receivable plus Inventory less Current Operating Liabilities (Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses, and Advances on Sales).
 
Page 2 of 7
 
 
*Accrued expenses = accrued payroll plus accrued liabilities.
 
 
 
* Total debt = notes payable, current installment of long-term debt, long-term debt, and subordinated debt.
 
 
38% currently and 44% a year ago
 
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholder equity. See question #13 for the components of net debt.
 
 
Approximately 36%
 
 
Approximately $450 million
 
 
Approximately $225 - $250 million
 
 
Expensing of stock options resulted in recognizing increased expense of less than $5 million pretax, which approximates half a cent per share EPS impact.
 
 
Consumer Foods:
Cost of Goods Soldapproximately $10 million
SG&A expenseapproximately $16 million
 
Page 3 of 7
 
Corporate:
SG&A expenseapproximately $13 million.
 
 
The impact of this method change was less than $5 million pretax of additional expense.
 
 
The company estimates the announced closings will contribute about half of the targeted $100 million of annual fixed cost savings by fiscal 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
Please see the attached tablesone shows segment information and the other shows the entire P/L information. (Pages 6-7)
 
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and
 
Page 4 of 7
regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 
Page 5 of 7
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, gain on sale of Pilgrim's Pride Corporation common stock, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
Page 6 of 7
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated independently for each of the quarters presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings-per-share amounts may not agree with the total year.
1
 
 
Page 7 of 7
 
 


