FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20070920080036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On September 20, 2007, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on first quarter fiscal 2008 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 20, 2007  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2008 first quarter ended Aug. 26, 2007. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.36, including net $0.02 per diluted share of income from items impacting comparability. Excluding those items, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.34. Overall sales grew 10%, reflecting top-line strength in several areas of the company, including a 4% sales increase for priority investment brands in the Consumer Foods segment (+4% as reported, +7% on a comparable basis).* Prior-year diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.21 included $0.05 of restructuring costs. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "I am very pleased with the sales growth across all of our business segments this quarter. Innovation as well as strong marketing and customer fundamentals were key. I also congratulate our Trading and Merchandising team and our Food and Ingredients team for the strong profit growth that drove our strong EPS results."
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
He continued, "Despite a tough inflationary environment, we are confident in our ability to deliver our targeted fiscal 2008 diluted EPS in the range of $1.48, excluding items impacting comparability, due to our continued focus on our innovation pipeline, sales and marketing execution, operating efficiencies, and appropriate price increases."
Reorganization - Impact on Historical Amounts
During the quarter, the company reorganized its handheld product operations into the Consumer Foods segment from the Food and Ingredients segment, and also shifted management responsibility for a small international export business from the Consumer Foods segment to the International Foods segment. This has resulted in minor adjustments to prior-year segment sales and operating profits for the Consumer Foods, Food and Ingredients, and International Foods segments; total company sales and operating profits for fiscal 2007 have not changed.
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $1.6 billion and operating profit of $176 million for the quarter.
The following segment commentary relates to comparable performance unless otherwise indicated:
Comparable unit volumes increased 5% and comparable sales increased 6%:
 
 
 
Operating profit declined 3% as reported and 15% on a comparable basis. Comparable operating profit excludes: 1) peanut butter recall costs in the current year, 2) income in the current year from changes in restructuring estimates, and 3) restructuring charges in the prior year. See page 10 for Regulation G reconciliations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
The current quarter's high operating costs reflect a challenging input cost environment, which negatively impacted cost of goods sold by slightly more than $70 million, or almost 7%, vs. year-ago amounts. Furthermore, as the company continues to modify its production and distribution networks to improve costs and customer service over the long term, it encountered some startup inefficiencies associated with transferring production across facilities.
The company expects the segment to post solid operating profit results for the full fiscal year due to a combination of volume growth, ongoing price increases, and the achievement of cost savings.
During the quarter, sales for the Food and Ingredients segment were $909 million, 11% ahead of last year. The increase reflects stronger prices and volumes for the Lamb Weston specialty potato operations, which experienced very strong sales growth for export markets, as well as higher flour prices primarily driven by higher wheat input costs. Segment operating profit was $120 million for the quarter, 15% ahead of the year-ago amounts, reflecting Lamb Weston's sales growth and focus on efficiencies.
During the quarter, sales for the Trading and Merchandising segment were $328 million, significantly above year-ago amounts; operating profit was $76 million, more than four times the dollar amount earned in the year-ago period as the energy trading and fertilizer operations very successfully capitalized on market opportunities. The segment's $76 million of operating profit in the current quarter includes approximately $6 million of non-operating gain, which is listed as an item impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
During the quarter, sales for the International Foods segment were $152 million, 5% ahead of year-ago amounts. Growth was broad-based, as all major markets delivered year-over-year sales growth with notable strength in popcorn products. Operating profit of $11 million was slightly below year-ago amounts, reflecting increased selling and marketing expenses.
Other Items
 
 
 
 
Capital Items
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
 
Outlook
The company's previous comments regarding fiscal 2008 diluted EPS performance indicated expectations in the range of $1.48 per share, excluding items impacting comparability. The company confirms those expectations today.
Due to the timing of price increases, inflation, and cost savings initiatives, as well as a likely slowdown in contribution from the Trading and Merchandising operations in the fiscal second quarter, the company currently expects second-quarter diluted EPS, excluding items impacting comparability, to be roughly in line with year-ago amounts. The company also expects the second half of fiscal 2008 to show solid EPS progress.
The company remains confident in its fiscal 20082010 financial goals as communicated to the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference on February 20, 2007; the details of those goals can be found on the company's website in Appendix A of the archived presentation for that event.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
Major Items Affecting First-Quarter Fiscal 2008 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.36** diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
 
 
Included in the $0.21 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss first-quarter results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-800-289-0572 and 1-913-981-5543, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT. To access the digital replay, a pass code will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112 and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 1617564. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at To view recent company news, please visit
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
http://media.conagrafoods.com.
Annual Stockholders' Meeting Webcast
The company will webcast its Fiscal 2007 Annual Stockholders' Meeting on Thursday, Sept. 27, 2007. This event will be webcast live beginning at 2:30 p.m. EDT. The webcast will be archived starting at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Thursday, Sept. 27 and can be accessed at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ''' and many others. For more information, please visit us at
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt
s, Marie Callender
s, Orville Redenbacher
s, PAM, Reddi-wip,
www.conagrafoods.com.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The Company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the Company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the Company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the Company's peanut butter recall, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses and other risks described in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment sales and operating profit exclusive of the peanut butter business, Alexia Foods business, divested business sales and restructuring charges. Management evaluates the segment performance and trends exclusive of these items due to the non-recurring nature of the recall and the impact of divestitures. Management believes the presentation of financial results exclusive of these items facilitates investor understanding of the segment's performance and trends.
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
In millions
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Q1 FY08 Question & Answer
September 20, 2007
 
Banquet
Blue Bonnet
Chef Boyardee
DAVID
Egg Beaters
Healthy Choice
Hebrew National
Hunt's
Kid Cuisine
Libby's
Marie Callender's
Manwich
Orville Redenbacher's
Reddi-wip
Rosarita
Ro*Tel
Snack Pack
Van Camp's
Wesson
 
ACT II
Crunch N Munch
Knott's Berry Farm
PAM
Parkay
Slim Jim
Swiss Miss
 
As reported Consumer Foods volume increased 3%; excluding the peanut butter business and the impact of divested businesses in prior year results, volume increased 5%.
Food and Ingredients volume increased 2%.
 
The first wave of new products includes Healthy Choice Cafe Steamers, Healthy Choice Panini, new flavors of Healthy Choice soups, Hunt's Fire Roasted Diced Tomatoes, Orville Redenbacher's Smart Pop! Low Sodium, Orville Redenbacher's Naturals, Swiss Miss Pudding Mousse Delights, Chef Boyardee Mac & Cheese, PAM Professional, and Fleischmann's and Parkay Soft Spreads. The new products, along with additional new products planned for the balance of fiscal 2008 and beyond, are expected to support future sales growth and margin expansion.
 
Approximately $76 million (versus approximately $89 million in Q1 2007)
 
Approximately $152 million (versus approximately $46 million in Q1 2007)
 
Approximately $59 million (versus approximately $58 million in Q1 2007)
 
Approximately $74 million for the quarter (versus approximately $90 million in Q1 2007, which included $13 million of restructuring charges)
 
Approximately $89 million
 
Approximately 493 million shares for the quarter
 
Gross margin = gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $714/$2,956 = 24.2%
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $384/$2,956 = 13.0%
 
 
 
42% currently and 38% a year ago
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholders' equity. See question #12 for the components of net debt.
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for the quarter was 33%; the benefit of a lower-than-planned tax rate is listed as an item impacting comparability. Going forward, the company expects an effective tax rate in the range of 34%-35% for continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability.
 
Approximately $450 million
 
$240 million to $250 million
 
Yes, the company repurchased approximately 3.4 million shares of common stock during the quarter at a total cost of approximately $88 million.
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
($ USD, in millions)
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The Company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the Company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the Company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the Company's peanut butter recall, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses and other risks described in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 


