FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20070627080226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On June 27, 2007, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on fourth quarter fiscal 2007 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued June 27, 2007
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued June 27, 2007
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., June 27, 2007  ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2007 fourth quarter ended May 27, 2007. Fourth-quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.38, which includes $0.02 per diluted share of costs related to the recent peanut butter recall and $0.01 per diluted share of benefit from a lower-than-expected tax rate. Items impacting comparability are detailed toward the end of this release.
"I congratulate our team on a very strong finish to the fiscal year," said Gary Rodkin, chief executive officer of ConAgra Foods. "Record trading and merchandising profits, as well as continued progress with cost-saving initiatives, have allowed us to increase marketing investments substantially and offset inflation while delivering strong EPS this quarter. I am also pleased with accelerating sales performance for key brands within the Consumer Foods segment, and am confident that our increased marketing investment and innovation pipeline have set a solid foundation for fiscal 2008."
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
For the quarter, sales for the Consumer Foods segment were $1.6 billion, roughly equal to year-ago amounts due to the effects of the recent peanut butter recall and the divestiture of a refrigerated pizza business. Excluding the peanut butter business in current and prior-year results, as well as amounts in the year-ago period from a business since divested, sales increased 3%. See page 9 for Regulation G reconciliations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
Segment operating profit was $167 million for the quarter, below year-ago amounts primarily due to $57 million of increased advertising and promotion investment as well as $17 million of peanut butter recall costs in the current period. The increased advertising and promotion investment is part of the company's plans for setting the foundation for profitable growth in fiscal 2008. The company's cost-saving initiatives essentially offset increased input costs; as expected, this contrasts with results earlier in the fiscal year when cost savings exceeded comparatively modest input cost inflation, which provided substantial net benefit to gross profits. Prior-year operating profit of $197 million includes $44 million of restructuring costs.
Innovation Pipeline
New product introductions are the initial output from the company's focus on establishing a high-quality innovation pipeline. These include Healthy Choice Caf Steamers, Healthy Choice Paninis, new flavors of Healthy Choice soups, Hunt's Fire Roasted Diced Tomatoes, Orville Redenbacher's Smart Pop! Low Sodium, Orville Redenbacher's Naturals, Swiss Miss Pudding Mousse Delights, Chef Boyardee Mac & Cheese, PAM Professional, and Fleischmann's and Parkay Soft Spreads. A number of these products are already in the market and are generating favorable customer and consumer feedback that confirms the company's assessment of their potential. The new products, along with additional new products planned for the balance of fiscal 2008 and beyond, are expected to support future sales growth and margin expansion.
For the quarter, sales for the Food and Ingredients segment were $913 million, 11% ahead of last year. Each of the segment's major operationsLamb Weston (specialty potato products), ConAgra Mills (milled products), Gilroy Foods (vegetables) and Spicetec (seasoning blends, flavors)posted top-line growth due to better volumes, mix and pricing. Lamb Weston continued to show volume
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
growth as it capitalized on opportunities with key customers. ConAgra Mills' strong sales gains largely reflected higher flour prices driven by increased wheat costs.
Segment operating profit was $105 million for the quarter, ahead of $95 million last year, which included $5 million of restructuring charges. The overall comparable profit increase reflects strong sales performance that was partly offset by higher raw material costs.
For the quarter, sales for the Trading and Merchandising segment were $659 million, significantly higher than the $359 million reported last year. Segment operating profit for the quarter reached a record $200 million, almost five times year-ago amounts. Energy trading and fertilizer operations reported their highest quarterly profit ever by successfully capitalizing on the market environment. The quarter's profits from merchandising agricultural commodities also showed a year-over-year increase. The company considers this level of overall segment profitability to be extraordinary, and plans for fiscal 2008 profitability from this segment to be significantly lower than fiscal 2007 levels.
For the quarter, sales for the International Foods segment were $156 million, in line with year-ago amounts. Strong results for popcorn, tomatoes, and other priority investment products, primarily in Canada and Mexico, were largely offset by discontinuing certain low-margin items. The year-over-year sales comparison was also negatively impacted by distribution gains associated with the introduction of popcorn into the Japanese market in the year-ago period.
Segment operating profit of $17 million was $5 million below prior-year amounts, primarily due to increased advertising and promotion investment.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
Capital and Other Items
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
Financial Outlook
The company expects strong sales and EPS performance in fiscal 2008 due to the innovation, marketing, pricing, and cost-saving initiatives under way. Third-party EPS consensus for the company's fiscal 2008 is currently $1.48 and is assumed to exclude items impacting comparability; the company views a diluted EPS estimate for fiscal 2008 in the range of $1.48 to be appropriate, excluding items impacting comparability. The company notes that it does not expect the unusually strong Trading and Merchandising profits earned in the second half of fiscal 2007 to continue at those levels in 2008.
Major Items Affecting Comparability of Fourth-quarter Fiscal 2007 EPS
Included in the $0.38 of diluted EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
Included in the $0.11 of diluted EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss fourth-quarter results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-866-575-6540 and 1-913-312-1240, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at by clicking on the Investors link.
www.conagrafoods.com
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 2465886. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at at the Investors link. To view recent company news, please visit at the Media link.
www.conagrafoods.com
www.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's leading packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include:
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Reddi-wip and many others.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's peanut butter recall, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment sales exclusive of the peanut butter business and divested business sales. Management evaluates the segment performance and trends exclusive of these items due to the non-recurring nature of the recall and the impact of divestitures. Management believes the presentation of financial results exclusive of these items facilitates investor understanding of the segment's performance and trends.
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, gain on sale of Pilgrim's Pride Corporation common stock, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
In millions, except per-share amounts
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
In millions, except per-share amounts
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 15
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
In millions
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Q4 FY07 Question & Answer
June 27, 2007
 
Blue Bonnet
Chef Boyardee
DAVID
Egg Beaters
Hebrew National
Kid Cuisine
Libby's
Marie Callender's
Manwich
Orville Redenbacher's
Reddi-wip
Rosarita
Slim Jim
Snack Pack
Wesson
Sales for Hunt's, PAM, Healthy Choice and Banquet were in line with last year's amounts.
 
ACT II
Knott's Berry Farm
LaChoy
Parkay
Rotel
VanCamp's
Wolf
 
Consumer Foods volume was flat; excluding the peanut butter business and the impact of divested businesses in prior year results, volume increased 3%.
Food and Ingredients volume increased 3%.
 
Approximately $78 million (versus approximately $84 million in Q4 2006)
 
Approximately $346 million (versus $311 million through Q4 2006)
 
Approximately $172 million (versus approximately $89 million in Q4 2006)
 
Approximately $425 million (versus $263 million through Q4 2006)
 
Approximately $59 million (versus approximately $62 million in Q4 2006)
 
Approximately $226 million (versus approximately $272 million for fiscal year 2006)
 
Approximately $169 million for the quarter (versus approximately $209 million in Q4 2006, which included $93 million of expense from items that impact comparability)
Approximately $436 million for the full fiscal year (versus approximately $555 million in fiscal year 2006)
 
Approximately $90 million
 
Approximately $367 million
 
498 million shares for the quarter / 507 million shares for the full fiscal year
 
490 million shares
 
Gross margin = gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $890/$3,333 = 26.7%
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $489/$3,333 = 14.7%
 
 
Total advertising and promotion expense from continuing operations amounted to approximately $452 million in fiscal year 2007 (versus approximately $335 million in fiscal year 2006).
Total Consumer Foods advertising and promotion expense amounted to approximately $373 million in fiscal year 2007, representing 5.7% of total fiscal year 2007 Consumer Foods sales (versus approximately $280 million in fiscal year 2006, representing 4.3% of total fiscal year 2006 Consumer Foods sales).
 
 
 
 
37% currently and 41% a year ago
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholder equity. See question #17 for the components of net debt.
 
Approximately $173 million
 
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 33%, slightly lower than the normal rate of 35%. The company lists $0.01 per diluted share of benefit from a lower than expected tax rate as an item impacting comparability for the quarter.
 
The company plans for a tax rate of 35% on pretax earnings, excluding items that impact comparability.
 
$425 million to $450 million
 
$240 million to $250 million
 
Approximately $21 million pre-tax
 
Yes, the company repurchased approximately 8.6 million shares of common stock during the quarter at a total cost of approximately $214 million. At quarter-end, the company had approximately $88 million of authorized repurchases remaining under its existing share repurchase program.
 
Summary of major items included in diluted EPS of $0.38 from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007
 
Summary of major items included in diluted EPS of $0.11 from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006
 
 
The company is aggressively pursuing SG&A cost reductions, particularly focusing on costs that were associated with the recently divested businesses. As part of the divestiture agreements, the company is providing some transition services to the buyers; the company will therefore not significantly change all of the applicable SG&A activities or reduce the related costs until it stops providing the services. The buyers are reimbursing the company for these services, and the company considers the amount of the reimbursement to roughly represent amounts identified for cost reduction once the services and reimbursement have stopped. Excluding reimbursement for direct pass-through costs, buyer payments to ConAgra Foods during the entire 2007 fiscal year were approximately $23 million for fixed-cost related items, approximately $8 million of which was received in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. The 2007 fiscal year amount reflects a revision to the amount disclosed in the third quarter earnings release.
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's peanut butter recall, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 


