FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20071127171514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
November 27, 2007
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
(402) 595-4000
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Mr. Dean Hollis, president and chief operating officer of the Consumer Foods division of ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") plans to leave the Company in July 2008.  Mr. Hollis advised the Company that his objective is to seek the top leadership position at another consumer business. The Company will begin an external search for an executive to augment the current senior leadership team led by Chief Executive Officer Gary Rodkin. In the interim, Mr. Hollis will continue his leadership of the Consumer Foods business and, along with Mr. Rodkin, remains focused on brand development and pricing activities underway.
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements.  These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances.  The Company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements.  Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results.  Many factors could affect the Company's actual results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements.  These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the Company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses and other risks described in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
CONAGRA FOODS, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 


