FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20071205171522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
December 5, 2007
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
(402) 595-4000
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release on December 5, 2007 which included information for the quarterly period ended November 25, 2007. The press release is furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated December 5, 2007
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
CONAGRA FOODS, INC.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
CONAGRA FOODS' FISCAL 2008 SECOND-QUARTER EPS TO BE HIGHER THAN PLANNED
 
OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 5, 2007  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE:CAG) announced today that diluted EPS from continuing operations for its fiscal 2008 second quarter, which ended Nov. 25, 2007, will be higher than planned. Previously the company had commented that it expected fiscal 2008 second-quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations to be in line with year-ago amounts. The higher EPS is attributable to stronger-than-expected performance in its Trading and Merchandising segment and its Food and Ingredients segment.
 
Because the company has not yet finalized the details of the quarter's performance for all of its segments, the company will wait to discuss the specifics of the quarter's results in the earnings release and conference call scheduled for Dec. 20, 2007.
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's leading packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM
and many others. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com.
 
-more-
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
 
This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 
# # #
 
 


