FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20071119083011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
November 19, 2007
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
(402) 595-4000
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Between November 19 and the 21st, senior management from ConAgra Foods, Inc. will be meeting with several institutional investors in the ordinary course. During those meetings, the company expects to confirm its fiscal 2009-2010 EPS guidance of 8-10% compound annual growth, excluding items impacting comparability.
th
 
The company will also likely reiterate significant opportunity in its sales acceleration and productivity enhancement initiatives, which the company has previously disclosed to be the main drivers of the expected EPS growth. As the company has previously disclosed, the relative contribution and importance of these initiatives may shift over time, reflecting then-current impacts of factors such as pricing actions, opportunities for mix improvement, innovation performance, inflation levels, and changes to classifications and amounts of fixed and variable cost saving opportunities.
 
This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
CONAGRA FOODS, INC.
 
 
 
 
 


