FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20071220083029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2007, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on second quarter fiscal 2008 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods and Food & Ingredients segments, adjusted sales for the Consumer Foods segment and adjusted sales for the Consumer Foods segment's Priority Investment Brands and Enabler Brands. Management evaluates segment performance exclusive of items impacting comparability of year-over-year results because these items are non-recurring or extraordinary in nature. Management believes the presentation of financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability facilitates investor understanding of segment performance and trends.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 20, 2007  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2008 second quarter ended Nov. 25, 2007. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.50, which includes $0.03 per diluted share of costs related to the recent pot pie recall. Prior-year diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.39 included net $0.01 of expense from items impacting comparability. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "While we will continue to face a very challenging input cost environment for the near term, we do expect full year fiscal 2008 EPS to be higher than previously communicated due to the strong year-to-date EPS performance. I am very pleased with the momentum in our Food and Ingredients segment and how well our Trading and Merchandising segment is capitalizing on market opportunities."
Rodkin continued, "Although sales and profits for our Consumer Foods segment are not as strong as they should be, I am encouraged by continuing progress for a number of Consumer Foods brands as well as the results of innovation and marketing efforts underway. We expect profits and margins for this segment to improve toward the end of this fiscal year."
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
: On October 11, the company voluntarily recalled all of its Banquet and private label pot pies out of concern for salmonella. Direct recall costs were approximately $27 million in the second quarter, or $0.03 per diluted share; the company does not expect any additional significant expenses related to this recall. After a thorough review of the pot pie plant with the USDA, the company restarted production and shipping product in early December.
Pot pie recall
 
 
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $1.8 billion and operating profit of $234 million this quarter, and $1.8 billion of sales and $277 million of operating profit in the year-ago period.
The following segment commentary relates to comparable performance unless otherwise indicated.
Comparable unit volumes increased 3% and comparable sales increased 3%. Despite price increases, sales growth did not outpace unit growth because of: 1) protecting trade deal commitments to customers on several heavily promoted categories, a situation which will moderate in the back half of the fiscal year, and 2) negative sales mix resulting from the higher rate of growth for the enabler brands.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
 
Operating profit declined 16% as reported and 17% on a comparable basis. Comparable operating profit excludes pot pie recall costs in the current year as well as restructuring charges in the prior year. See page 9 for Regulation G reconciliations. The current quarter's high operating costs reflect a challenging input cost environment, which negatively impacted cost of goods sold by nearly $100 million, or slightly more than 8% versus year-ago amounts. The production and start-up inefficiencies experienced earlier in the fiscal year did not have a significant effect on this quarter's operating costs. Due to ongoing pricing actions, comparable operating profit and margin results for this segment are expected to improve as the fiscal year progresses, most notably in the fiscal fourth quarter.
During the quarter, sales for the Food and Ingredients segment were almost $1 billion, 14% ahead of last year. The increase reflects stronger prices and solid volumes for the Lamb Weston specialty potato and appetizer operations, as well as higher flour prices for ConAgra Mills necessitated by higher wheat input costs. Segment operating profit was $131 million for the quarter, 13% ahead of $117 million last year. Excluding an $18 million gain on the sale of noncore assets and an $8 million benefit from insurance proceeds in the year-ago period, comparable profits in the segment increased more than 40% in the current quarter, an outstanding performance. These results reflect
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
Lamb Weston's export and appetizer sales growth, as well as growth for milled products due to expanded value-added product lines, better mix, and efficiency gains.
During the quarter, sales for the Trading and Merchandising segment were $546 million, more than 80% ahead of year-ago amounts; operating profit was $165 million, more than four times the dollar amount earned in the year-ago period. Fertilizer and agricultural merchandising operations posted a very strong quarter, successfully capitalizing on rising prices and continued strong domestic and export demand. Agricultural trading results improved over the prior year, and energy trading results, while strong, were slightly below year-ago amounts.
During the quarter, sales for the International Foods segment were $176 million, 13% ahead of year-ago amounts. The improved sales performance reflects strong volume and pricing trends for products in Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Caribbean, and Latin America, along with 6 points of sales increase from a weaker dollar. Popcorn and canned pasta products were particularly strong. Operating profit of $15 million was slightly below $19 million last year, but in line with year-ago amounts after adjusting for a $4 million gain in the prior year from divesting a noncore asset.
Other Items
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
 
Capital Items
 
 
 
Outlook
The company expects fiscal 2008 EPS from continuing operations to be slightly above $1.55, excluding the recent pot pie recall expenses and other items impacting comparability. The revised EPS expectations largely reflect:
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
 
The company does not expect the previously discussed recalls to result in any significant expenses in the remainder of the fiscal year. The company expects EPS, excluding items impacting comparability, to be slightly higher in the fiscal third quarter than in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Major Items Affecting Second-Quarter Fiscal 2008 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.50 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
Included in the $0.39 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
 
 
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EST today to discuss second-quarter results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-800-818-7543 and 1-913-981-5542, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EST. To access the digital replay, a pass code will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112 and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 4961886. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at To view recent company news, please visit
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
http://media.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's leading packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ''' and many others. For more information, please visit us at
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt
s, Marie Callender
s, Orville Redenbacher
s, PAM, Reddi-wip,
www.conagrafoods.com.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment sales and operating profit exclusive of the pot pie business, the peanut butter business, Alexia Foods business, Lincoln Snacks business, divested business sales and restructuring charges.
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
In millions, except per share amounts
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
In millions, except per share amounts
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
In millions
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Q2 FY08 Question & Answer
December 20, 2007
 
Blue Bonnet
Chef Boyardee
Egg Beaters
Healthy Choice
Hebrew National
Libby's
Marie Callender's
PAM
Reddi-wip
Rosarita
Ro*Tel
Slim Jim
Snack Pack
Wesson
Wolf
 
ACT II
Crunch N Munch
DAVID
Kid Cuisine
Knott's Berry Farm
Manwich
Orville Redenbacher's
Parkay
Pemmican
Swiss Miss
 
As reported Consumer Foods volume decreased 1%; excluding items impacting comparability, volume increased 3%.
Food and Ingredients volume was flat.
 
Approximately $77 million (versus approximately $87 million in Q2 2007)
 
Approximately $111 million (versus approximately $66 million in Q2 2007)
 
Approximately $64 million (versus approximately $52 million in Q2 2007)
 
Approximately $127 million for the quarter (versus approximately $92 million in Q2 2007)
 
Approximately $88 million
 
Approximately 491 million shares for the quarter
 
Gross margin = gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $945/$3,511 = 26.9%
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $545/$3,511 = 15.5%
 
 
 
 
 
43% currently and 37% a year ago
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholder equity. See question #11 for the components of net debt.
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for the quarter was 35%.
 
The company plans for a tax rate of 3435% on pretax earnings, excluding items that impact comparability.
 
Approximately $475 million
 
Approximately $250 million
 
No, the company exhausted its prior authorization during the first quarter. On September 27, 2007, the company's board of directors authorized an additional $500 million of share repurchases. The company plans to repurchase shares periodically, depending on market conditions, and may make purchases in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions.
 
 
 
 
After the earnings release date, the company recorded additional restructuring charges that impacted the fiscal 2007 second quarter. Please refer to the current presentation of these results in this release, or the non-GAAP reconciliation archives on the company's website. To view via the company's website, please follow these instructions:
 
 
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 


