FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20070611134752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Today, June 11, 2007, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") will host a product tasting session for interested stock analysts and institutional investors at its corporate headquarters in Omaha, Nebraska. The Company will present and discuss new products, existing products and new applications of existing products, across brands and operations including Healthy Choice, Lamb Weston, Gilroy Foods, Hunt's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Swiss Miss, Ultragrain, Chef Boyardee, Parkay, Fleischmann's and others. During the event, the Company intends to confirm its previously announced expectation for sales growth of 2% to 3% annually for the fiscal 2008 to 2010 timeframe. Fiscal 2008 began on May 28, 2007.
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The Company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the Company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the Company's peanut butter recall, the Company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses and other risks described in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


