FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20070322080100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On March 22, 2007, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on third quarter fiscal 2007 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., March 22, 2007  ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE: CAG), one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2007 third quarter ended Feb. 25, 2007. Third-quarter diluted EPS was $0.38, which includes $0.06 per diluted share of costs related to the recent peanut butter recall.
In the year-ago period, the company reported diluted EPS of ($0.05), including $0.38 per share of net expense from items that impacted comparability. Major items impacting comparability in the current and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, chief executive officer of ConAgra Foods, commented, "I congratulate our team on a strong EPS performance, particularly in light of the fact that we were able to offset significant costs associated with the peanut butter recall, and still increase our marketing investment. We clearly are making progress with our ongoing initiatives to reduce operating costs and expand margins, and we are improving execution. Given our operating progress to date, as well as trading profits that have been stronger than planned so far this fiscal year, we are comfortable that EPS will be toward the high end of our EPS guidance range for fiscal 2007."
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
Regarding the recent peanut butter recall, Rodkin said, "As most of our consumers, customers and investors know, toward the end of the quarter we initiated a recall of 100 percent of our peanut butter products following reports of Salmonella contamination. We are truly sorry for any harm that our peanut butter products may have caused. I want to assure our consumers, customers, investors and employees that we are correcting the operational problems that led to this, and are committed to the highest possible standards of food safety throughout our operations. We also intend to resolve all claims related to peanut butter fairly and expeditiously and do not believe the costs of resolving the claims will materially impact our future operating results."
The company currently estimates that the cost of the peanut butter recall will approximate $50 million to $60 million, largely reflecting the costs associated with customer and consumer product returns, inventory write-offs and projected legal costs. Of this amount, $48 million was recognized in the third quarter; most of the remainder is expected to be recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.
For the quarter, sales for the Consumer Foods segment were $1.6 billion, 2% below last year due to the peanut butter recall and the recent divestiture of a refrigerated pizza business. Overall sales increased 1%, excluding the peanut butter business in current and prior-year results as well as amounts in the year-ago period from businesses since divested. See page 9 for Regulation G reconciliations.
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
 
 
Segment operating profit was $224 million for the quarter, 2% ahead of year-ago amounts, despite significant current-quarter recall, marketing and restructuring costs. Current-quarter operating profit includes $47 million of costs related to the peanut butter recall, $26 million of increased advertising and promotion investment, and $20 million of restructuring costs. Prior-year operating profit of $220 million includes $41 million of restructuring costs. The company is pleased that its progress with cost savings and product mix has allowed it to grow earnings while fueling reinvestment for the future.
For the quarter, sales for the Food and Ingredients segment were $852 million, 8% ahead of last year. Each of the major operations-Lamb Weston (specialty potato products), ConAgra Mills (milled products), Gilroy Foods (vegetables) and Spicetec (seasoning blends, flavors)-posted top-line growth due to better volumes, mix and pricing.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
Segment operating profit was $109 million for the quarter, 36% ahead of year-ago amounts as each of the major product lines listed above posted year-over-year growth. The overall profit increase reflects the strong sales performance, as well as better mix and successful focus on cost management.
For the quarter, sales for the Trading and Merchandising segment were $293 million, 5% ahead of year-ago amounts. Segment operating profit reached a record $62 million, 3% ahead of year-ago amounts. The sales and profit growth reflects stronger results for fertilizer operations, as well as agricultural trading and merchandising operations, and lower profits from energy trading.
For the quarter, sales for the International Foods segment were $154 million, 3% above year-ago amounts. Largely due to better results for Canadian operations, segment operating profit of $15 million was slightly ahead of year-ago amounts despite approximately $2 million of peanut butter recall costs in the current quarter.
Other Items
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
 
Capital Items
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
Outlook
Given the strong EPS to date resulting from operating progress as well as better-than-expected trading profits, the company currently expects its fiscal 2007 EPS performance to be toward the high end of the range previously cited, which is $1.28 to $1.33, including the costs of the peanut butter recall but excluding other items impacting comparability.
As the company publicly communicated on Feb. 20 in its presentation to the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY), the company expects its sales, marketing and efficiency initiatives, along with its ongoing share repurchase program, to result in 8% to 10% annual EPS growth during the fiscal 2008 to 2010 timeframe. Those expectations exclude any items impacting comparability during the fiscal 2008 to 2010 period. The company begins fiscal 2008 on May 28, 2007. For more details regarding operating initiatives and financial expectations for the fiscal 2008 to 2010 timeframe, including targets for expanded profit margins and returns on capital, please refer to the company's Feb. 20 CAGNY presentation, which is archived at www.conagrafoods.com/investors.
Major Items Affecting Comparability of Third-Quarter Fiscal 2007 EPS
Included in the $0.38 of diluted EPS for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
Included in the ($0.05) of diluted EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss third-quarter results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-800-819-9193 and 1-913-981-4911, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at www.conagrafoods.com/investors.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT on March 22, 2007. To access the digital replay, a pass code will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 4051378. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at www.conagrafoods.com/investors. To view recent company news, please visit www.conagrafoods.com/media.
ConAgra Foods, Inc. (NYSE:CAG), is one of North America's leading packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ''' and many others.
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt
s, Marie Callender
s, Orville Redenbacher
s, PAM, Reddi-wip
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's peanut butter recall, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment sales exclusive of the peanut butter business and divested business sales. Management evaluates the segment performance and trends exclusive of these items due to the non-recurring nature of the recall and the impact of divestitures. Management believes the presentation of financial results exclusive of these items facilitates investor understanding of the segment's performance and trends.
 
Forward-Looking FY 07 EPS Reconciliation
Below is a reconciliation of the company's expected fiscal year 2007 diluted earnings per share. The company's guidance is presented including the costs of the peanut butter recall but exclusive of other items impacting comparability. Management believes that this presentation facilitates investor understanding of the company's underlying business performance and trends.
 
Management expects FY 07 diluted EPS of $1.28 to $1.33, including the costs of the peanut butter recall but excluding other comparability items.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, gain on sale of Pilgrim's Pride Corporation common stock, equity method investment earnings (loss) and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
In millions, except per share amounts
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
In millions, except per share amounts
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
In millions
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Q3 FY07 Question & Answer
March 22, 2007
 
Blue Bonnet
Chef Boyardee
DAVID
Egg Beaters
Hebrew National
Hunt's
Marie Callender's
Manwich
Orville Redenbacher's
PAM
Rosarita
Rotel
Snack Pack
Wolf
VanCamp's
Sales for Slim Jim and Wesson were in line with last year's amounts.
 
ACT II
Banquet
Healthy Choice
Kid Cuisine
Knott's Berry Farm
LaChoy
Libby's
Parkay
Reddi-wip
 
Consumer Foods volume declined 1%; excluding the peanut butter business and the impact of divested businesses in prior year results, volume increased 1%.
Food and Ingredients volume increased 1%.
 
Approximately $91 million (versus approximately $78 million in Q3 2006)
 
Approximately $268 million (versus $227 million through Q3 2006)
 
Approximately $147 million (versus approximately $54 million in Q3 2006)
 
Approximately $258 million (versus $175 million through Q3 2006)
 
Approximately $56 million (versus approximately $69 million in Q3 2006)
 
Approximately $166 million (versus approximately $210 million through Q3 2006)
 
Approximately $86 million, including $5 million of benefit from a legal settlement (versus approximately $171 million in Q3 2006, which included $73 million of expense from items that impact comparability).
 
$91 million
 
$276 million
 
507 million shares
 
 
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
 
Operating margin = $411/$2,918 = 14.1%
* Gross profit = net sales  costs of goods sold ($2,918  $2,143 = $775)
**See third-quarter segment operating results for a reconciliation of operating profit to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss). Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss), divided by net sales = $269/$2,918 = 9.2%.
 
 
* Total debt = notes payable, short-term debt, long-term debt, and subordinated debt.
 
39% currently and 43% a year ago
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholder equity. See question #15 for the components of net debt.
 
The company contributed approximately $106 million during the quarter, making the year-to-date approximately $170 million.
 
During the quarter, the company revised its expected tax rate for fiscal 2007 to 35% from 36%, excluding items impacting comparability; this revision resulted in a 33% effective tax rate for the quarter which added approximately $0.01 benefit to current quarter EPS (shown as an item impacting comparability).
 
The company plans for a tax rate of 35% on pretax earnings, excluding items that impact comparability.
 
In the range of $400 million
 
Approximately $225 million
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Major Items Affecting Fourth-Quarter Fiscal 2006 EPS
Included in the $0.11 diluted EPS from Continuing Operations (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Note on Forward-Looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's peanut butter recall, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.


