FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20080219082442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 19, 2008, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the content of its presentation to the Consumer Analyst Group of New York Conference. The presentation will be webcast live begining at 9:15 a.m. EST on February 19, 2008. The press release also provides information on expected financial results for the Company's third quarter of fiscal 2008. The press release and slides used in the presentation are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
The presentation discusses the Company's previously issued expectations for fiscal 2008 diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis. Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure provides investors with a useful tool for examining the Company's expected operational results for the year and making year-to-year comparisons.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., Feb. 19, 2008 Today ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) will present a company update to the Consumer Analyst Group of New York at that group's annual conference in Boca Raton, Fla. In his remarks, ConAgra Foods CEO Gary Rodkin will provide an update on the progress of the company's key initiatives and discuss its current priorities.
Regarding its financial outlook, the company expects (excluding items impacting comparability):
 
 
 
 
Regarding its Fiscal 2008 Third Quarter:
The company announced that diluted EPS from continuing operations for its fiscal 2008 third quarter, which ends Feb. 24, 2008, will be higher than planned. Previously, the company had communicated expectations for fiscal 2008 second-half EPS to be in the range of $0.70,
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
excluding items impacting comparability, with slightly more EPS in the fiscal third quarter than the fiscal fourth quarter. Today's announcement regarding the fiscal third quarter is the result of stronger-than-planned performance in the company's Trading and Merchandising segment as well as its Food and Ingredients segment. Despite improving top-line trends, results for the company's Consumer Foods segment continue to be negatively impacted by significantly higher input costs, an expected continuation of trends seen earlier this fiscal year. As part of plans previously communicated, the company recently implemented pricing actions for a number of its consumer brands and has announced additional significant increases that will be effective in late March 2008. These actions are expected to be evident in the company's results for the fiscal third quarter and more significantly in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Because the company has not yet completed its fiscal third quarter, and does not yet know the final details of the quarter's performance for all of its segments, the company will wait to discuss the specifics of the quarter's results in the earnings release and conference call scheduled for March 27, 2008. At that time the company will comment on upward revisions to full fiscal 2008 EPS guidance.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's leading packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include and many others. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com.
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
Note on forward-looking statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 



