FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20080918080134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 18, 2008, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on first quarter fiscal 2009 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted sales for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted sales for the Consumer Foods segment's Priority Investment Brands and Enabler Brands and adjusted operating profit for the Commercial Foods segment. Management evaluates segment performance exclusive of items impacting comparability of year-over-year results because these items are non-recurring or extraordinary in nature. Management believes the presentation of financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability facilitates investor understanding of segment performance and trends.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 18, 2008  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2009 first quarter ended Aug. 24, 2008. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.23, including net $0.04 per diluted share of expense from items impacting comparability. Excluding those items, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.27. Overall sales grew 17%, including 9% sales growth from the Consumer Foods segment, reflecting the company's recent pricing actions. Prior-year diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.27 included net $0.01 of income from items impacting comparability. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "We are pleased with the overall sales results in the Consumer Foods segment, the continued profit growth in Commercial Foods, and progress with overall supply chain and SG&A costs. We are disappointed that Consumer Foods posted a decline in comparable operating profit; however, we have already implemented actions that should generate stronger profits for the Consumer Foods business, particularly in the second half of the fiscal year."
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the International Foods segment was merged into the Consumer Foods segment. The company has also changed the name of its Food & Ingredients segment to Commercial Foods. A presentation of quarterly segment sales and operating profits for fiscal year 2008 can be found in the Q&A document accompanying this release.
Segment Changes:
 
 
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $1.9 billion and operating profit of $187 million for the quarter.
The following segment commentary relates to comparable performance unless otherwise indicated:
Consumer Foods' comparable sales growth was 9%, most of which was due to net price increases. Approximately one point of the sales growth reflects having sales of Peter Pan peanut butter and Alexia Foods for the entire first quarter this fiscal year and only part of the first quarter last fiscal year. The company implemented a 7% weighted average price increase for this segment on March 24, 2008, and implemented an additional 3% weighted average price increase at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Volumes were essentially flat.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
 
 
Operating profit of $187 million was essentially equal to year-ago amounts as reported, and declined 6% on a comparable basis as detailed on page 10. Advertising and promotion expense increased at a mid single-digit rate. Although the company continued to successfully implement pricing actions and cost-saving initiatives, these were more than offset by significant input cost inflation, particularly in cooking oils, tablespreads, and Banquet frozen foods. Overall inflation was greater than $190 million. Due to a combination of recent price increases, innovation, an expected moderation of input cost increases, as well as the achievement of supply chain and SG&A cost savings, the company expects the segment to post strong operating profit growth for the full fiscal year despite potential negative volume impact from price increases. The company expects the improvement to be concentrated in the second half of the fiscal year.
During the quarter, sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1.2 billion, 32% ahead of last year, as all major operations posted sales growth. Sales for the milling operations increased due to the pass-through of higher wheat costs as well as improved product mix. Sales for Lamb Weston specialty potato and appetizer operations grew primarily due to increased prices and the acquisition of Watts Brothers Farms; this recent acquisition contributed approximately 2 points of sales growth to the overall segment this quarter. Sales for Gilroy Foods & Flavors showed solid sales growth, driven by volume growth across major product lines and new customer
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
business with foodservice and industrial accounts. Segment operating profit was $133 million for the quarter, 10% ahead of the year-ago amount, with all major operations posting growth due to strong sales results and a focus on efficiencies. Segment operating profit includes an approximate $5 million gain from an asset sale within Gilroy Foods & Flavors. Excluding this gain, segment operating profit was approximately $127 million (rounded) for the quarter, above year-ago amounts.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company uses hedging activities to manage the risk in its plans for the cost of various commodity inputs and to a lesser extent foreign exchange. To improve the transparency of operating results, the company now utilizes a new methodology for presenting derivative gains and losses. This methodology temporarily classifies mark-to-market gains and losses as unallocated Corporate expense. The company later transfers the gains or losses to segment operating profit when the underlying commodity being hedged is expensed in cost of goods sold for the applicable operating segment.
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
The net hedging loss of $33 million (discussed under Corporate expense on page 5) for the first quarter is principally a result of decreases in commodity costs for certain inputs being hedged (primarily corn, soybean oil and natural gas). The company expects that hedging gains and losses will be largely offset over time by actual input costs being higher or lower than planned, or by increases or decreases in values of derivative hedge positions.
Other Items
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
Capital Items
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinued Operations
Current quarter EPS of $0.71 per diluted share from discontinued operations largely reflects the gain from divesting the Trading & Merchandising operations. Discontinued operations also include the operating results of divested businesses for part of the fiscal quarter prior to their sale.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
Outlook
Based on a combination of volume and inflation expectations as well as increased investments for some brands and categories, the company has slightly lowered its fiscal 2009 outlook; the company now expects fiscal 2009 diluted EPS from continuing operations to be slightly above $1.50, excluding items impacting comparability.
Major Items Affecting First-quarter Fiscal 2009 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.23 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
Included in the $0.27 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax; the following will not add to $0.26 due to the impact of rounding):
 
 
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-727-7630 and 1-913-312-0980, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 6591814. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at To view recent company news, please
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
visit http://media.conagrafoods.com.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
Annual Stockholders' Meeting Webcast
The company will webcast its Fiscal 2008 Annual Stockholders' Meeting on Thursday, Sept. 25, 2008. This event will be webcast live beginning at 2:30 p.m. EDT. The webcast will be archived starting at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Thursday, Sept. 25, and can be accessed at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE:CAG) is one of North America's largest packaged food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: ''' and many others. For more information, please visit us at
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt
s, Marie Callender
s, Orville Redenbacher
s, PAM, Reddi-wip,
www.conagrafoods.com.
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment sales and operating profit exclusive of the pot pie business, the Lincoln Snacks business, recall costs and restructuring charges.
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
In millions
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
In millions, except per-share amounts
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
In millions
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Q1 FY09 Question & Answer
September 18, 2008
 
 
Sales for Healthy Choice, Kid Cuisine, and PAM were in line with last year's sales for the quarter.
 
- ACT II
- Parkay
- Swiss Miss
- Wolf
 
Consumer Foods volume was flat, as reported and excluding items impacting comparability.
 
Approximately $76 million (versus approximately $72 million in Q1 FY08)
 
Approximately $106 million (versus approximately $150 million in Q1 FY08)
 
Approximately $50 million (versus approximately $55 million in Q1 FY08)
 
Approximately $97 million for the quarter (versus approximately $71 million in Q1 FY08). The year-over-year increase is primarily due to a $33 million pretax mark-to-market hedge loss temporarily recorded in unallocated Corporate expense. This loss will later be transferred to segment operating profit when the underlying commodity being hedged is expensed in cost of goods sold for the applicable operating segment.
 
Approximately $92 million
 
Approximately 470 million shares for the quarter
 
Gross margin = gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $625/$3,066 = 20%
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $320/$3,066 = 10%
 
 
 
 
 
39% currently and 41% a year ago
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholder equity. See question #11 for the components of net debt.
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for the quarter was 38%. Going forward, the company expects an effective tax rate of approximately 35% for continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability.
 
Approximately $475 million
 
Approximately $260 million, excluding income from the notes payable to ConAgra Foods resulting from the Trading & Merchandising divestiture. When income from those notes is included, net interest expense is approximately $190 million.
 
During the fiscal first quarter of 2009, the company applied $900 million toward share repurchases in an accelerated stock repurchase program. Under the program, the company repurchased approximately 38.4 million shares during the quarter and will complete the program later in the fiscal year.
 
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
(In millions)
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings (loss), and net interest expense. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
The face value of the notes is $550 million; the current carrying value is $492 million.
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 


