FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20080411083029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 11, 2008, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") will make a presentation to investors at a luncheon hosted by Shields & Company. During the presentation, management is expected to reconfirm expectations for fiscal 2008 earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $1.80 to $1.85, excluding items impacting comparability. A reconciliation for Regulation G purposes is set forth below. Senior management is also expected to reconfirm previously issued guidance of fiscal 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability, of at least $1.55, as well as the following previously issued projections:
 
 
Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide a useful tool for investors in examining the Company's expected operational results for the year and facilitate year-to-year comparisons.
 
 
This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility to update these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, the Company's ability to timely compete the pending sale of its Trading & Merchandising segment, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


