FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20081217074736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 17, 2008, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on second quarter fiscal 2009 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment and earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such supplemental financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements. Management believes the presentation of supplemental financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability is relevant to an investor and facilitates investor understanding of continuing operations and segment performance and trends.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Second Quarter Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 17, 2008  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2009 second quarter ended Nov. 23, 2008 and confirmed that it expected total year diluted EPS from continuing operations to be slightly above $1.50, excluding items that impact comparability. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.38 for the quarter, an increase of 41% from prior-year levels of $0.27. Overall sales grew 11%, reflecting the company's pricing actions across all segments over the last few quarters. Excluding $0.05 per diluted share of net expense in the current quarter and $0.03 of expense in the prior-year quarter from items that impact comparability, diluted EPS from continuing operations in the
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
current quarter was $0.43, an increase of 43% from $0.30 in the year ago period. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "I am pleased to reconfirm our earnings outlook for fiscal 2009 given the dynamics of the current marketplace. Commercial Foods continued its outstanding top and bottom-line performance by managing volatile input costs through nimble pricing actions and operating excellence. We also substantially reduced operating costs through an over-delivery against cost savings targets in the Consumer Foods supply chain and successfully focused on SG&A expenses. While comparable Consumer Foods profits were down, we are confident that changes in our merchandising, slowing inflation, and other planned operating changes will reverse this trend in the back half of the year. Recent trends support our confidence for balance-of-year results."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,043 million and operating profit of $253 million in the current quarter, and $1,956 million of sales and $247 million of operating profit in the year-ago period.
The following segment commentary relates to comparable performance unless otherwise indicated (see page 8 for Regulation G reconciliation):
Consumer Foods' comparable sales growth was 4%, reflecting price increases necessitated by higher input costs as well as a 4% decline in unit volume. Brand details and subsegment performance can be found in the financial information and Q&A document accompanying this release.
Consumer Foods' comparable operating profit declined 8% to $253 million. Input cost inflation was approximately $170 million, significantly more than year-ago amounts. As expected, overall volume declines as well as previously discussed profit challenges for the and brands adversely impacted profits. Positive benefits occurred from strong sales performance in mass and club channels, lower SG&A expenses, and higher-than-planned cost savings.
Banquet
Wesson
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
The company expects comparable year-over-year profit growth for this segment in the back half of the fiscal year due to benefits from adjustments to merchandising programs, favorable cost savings trends and an expected moderation of input cost increases.
During the quarter, sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,222 million, 23% ahead of last year, primarily reflecting increased prices driven by input cost increases for flour milling and, to a lesser extent, the Lamb Weston specialty potato operations. Segment operating profit was $156 million for the quarter, 18% ahead of the year-ago amounts; the profit increase reflects the overall sales growth along with operating efficiencies in the flour milling operations, including the favorable impact of a very high-quality wheat crop. Acquisitions at Lamb Weston contributed to profit growth, as did more efficient operations and improved performance from Gilroy dehydrated products and specialty spices. As the company has previously stated, given the unusually strong profits for this segment in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 due to market opportunities in the flour milling operations, the company has not planned for Commercial Foods profits in the third quarter of fiscal 2009 to be above year-ago amounts.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company uses hedging activities to manage the risk in its plans for the cost of various commodity inputs and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange. To improve the transparency of segment operating results, the company began utilizing a new methodology for presenting derivative gains and losses in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. This methodology temporarily classifies mark-to-market gains and losses as unallocated Corporate expense. The company later transfers the gains or losses to segment operating profit when the underlying item being hedged is expensed in cost of goods sold for the applicable operating segment. Prior-year amounts utilized a different methodology, which classified the hedge gain or loss in the segment operating results regardless of when the underlying item was expensed. Prior year second-quarter results include $25 million of net derivative gains ($24 million for Consumer Foods, and $1 million for Commercial Foods other than the milling operations). This change in methodology was discussed in detail in the company's first-quarter fiscal 2009 earnings release dated Sept. 18, 2008. An example of the new methodology is presented in the written Q&A document accompanying that release.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
For the quarter, the company experienced a net increase of $48 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, in unallocated Corporate expense from net derivative losses (reflecting the net of gains, losses and reclassifications to operating segment results); this net amount is listed as an item impacting comparability in the applicable summary. Prior year net gains are not listed as an item impacting comparability.
Other Items
 
 
 
 
Capital Items
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
Outlook
The company expects improved Consumer Foods operating profit in the second half of fiscal 2009, particularly in the fiscal fourth quarter. Reflecting recent trends and the expected Consumer Foods operating profit improvement, the company reaffirms its expectations for fiscal 2009 diluted EPS from continuing operations of slightly above $1.50, excluding items impacting comparability.
Major Items Affecting Second-quarter Fiscal 2009 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.38 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2009:
 
 
Included in the $0.27 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EST to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-800-260-6066 and 1-913-312-0654, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EST. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 7570064. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at . To view recent company news, please visit .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
http://media.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, serving grocery retailers, as well as restaurants and other foodservice establishments. Popular ConAgra Foods consumer brands include: and many others. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of the pot pie recall costs.
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
(in millions)
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
(in millions)
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in millions)
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Q2 FY09 Question & Answer
December 17, 2008
 
 
Sales for Healthy Choice and Hunt's were in line with last year's sales for the quarter.
 
- ACT II
- Chef Boyardee
- Egg Beaters
- Manwich
- PAM
- Reddi-wip
 
Consumer Foods volume was down approximately 4%, as reported and excluding items impacting comparability.
Commercial Foods volume was up 2%, as reported and excluding items impacting comparability.
 
Net Sales
 
Profit Contribution Margin
(Net sales less cost of goods sold and advertising and promotion expense)
 
 
Approximately $79 million (versus approximately $74 million in Q2 FY08)
 
Approximately $115 million (versus approximately $104 million in Q2 FY08)
 
Approximately $43 million (versus approximately $62 million in Q2 FY08)
 
Approximately $111 million for the quarter (versus approximately $126 million in Q2 FY08). The current quarter includes $48 million related to net derivative losses temporarily recorded in unallocated Corporate expense. This loss will later be transferred to segment operating profit when the underlying item being hedged is expensed in segment operating results.
 
Approximately $86 million
 
Approximately 450 million shares for the quarter
 
Gross margin = segment gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $734/$3,264 = 22%
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $408/$3,264 = 13%
 
 
 
 
 
43% currently and 43% a year ago
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholder equity. See question #12 for the components of net debt.
 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations for the quarter was 33%. Going forward, the company expects an effective tax rate of approximately 34%-35% for continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability.
 
Approximately $475 million
 
Approximately $260 million, excluding income from the notes payable to ConAgra Foods resulting from the Trading & Merchandising divestiture. When income from those notes is included, net interest expense is approximately $190 million.
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans, competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 


