FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20080718170031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) The Corporate Governance Principles of ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") provide that no director may be nominated to a new term if he or she would be over age 72 at the time of election. Current directors John T. Chain, Jr. and Ronald W. Roskens are over age 72 and ineligible to be re-nominated in connection the Company's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders (the "Annual Meeting"), which is scheduled for September 25, 2008. On July 17, 2008, each of Messrs. Chain and Roskens notified the Company that he will retire from the Board upon conclusion of the Annual Meeting and the Board accepted the tender of resignation.
(e) On July 16, 2008, the Human Resources Committee of the Company's Board (the "Committee") took various actions related to executive compensation matters. The Committee established the annual incentive program for the 2009 fiscal year that began May 26, 2008 and the long-term incentive program for the three-year performance period of fiscal 2009 through 2011. Specific information is provided here for the incentive opportunities approved for Gary M. Rodkin, Chief Executive Officer, Andre J. Hawaux, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, John F. Gehring, Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Scott Messel, Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, and Robert F. Sharpe, Jr., Executive Vice President, External Affairs and President, Commercial Foods, who were named in the summary compensation table included in the Company's proxy statement for its 2007 annual stockholders' meeting (the "named executive officers").
. On July 16, 2008, the Committee established the fiscal 2009 annual incentive plan. The plan provides a cash bonus opportunity for participants based on the Company's achievement of pre-set financial objectives. For fiscal 2009, payouts under the plan require the achievement of a minimum level of Company-wide profit before tax ("PBT"). Failure to reach a minimum, pre-set level of PBT results in a zero payout under the plan. Achievement of higher levels of PBT increase the plan's funding level. The Committee retained the discretion to modify the funding level based on the methods in which actual financial results are achieved. The Committee also retained the discretion to allocate the funded dollars unevenly across business groups in the event profound performance differences are experienced during the year. Individual awards are then computed taking into consideration personal performance.
FY09 Annual Incentive Plan
The Committee established target incentives for each named executive officer under the annual incentive plan. These incentives are approved as a percentage of base salary. The approved targeted incentives are: Mr. Rodkin, 200%; Mr. Hawaux, 100%; Mr. Gehring, 80%; Mr. Messel, 70%; and Mr. Sharpe, 100%. Payouts may be more or less than target depending on actual financial and individual performance, but are capped at 200% of target for Mr. Rodkin, and 300% of target for all other named executive officers.
. On July 16, 2008, the Committee also established the fiscal 2009 to 2011 award opportunities under the Company's long-term incentive plan, which promotes long-term stockholder value creation through a focus on growing earnings and return on capital. There are two components of the awards for this cycle under the plan  a stock option grant and a performance share grant.
FY09-2011 Long-Term Plan
The stock options, granted July 16, 2008, have a seven-year term, an exercise price at the closing market price of the Company's common stock on July 16, 2008, and vest 40% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, and 30% on each of the second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The stock options granted to the named executive officers on July 16, 2008 were: Mr. Rodkin, 500,000 options; Mr. Hawaux, 160,000 options; Mr. Gehring, 80,000 options; Mr. Messel, 60,000 options; and Mr. Sharpe, 180,000 options.
The performance shares were granted under the ConAgra Foods, Inc. 2008 Performance Share Plan, adopted effective July 16, 2008 (the "2008 Plan"). A copy of the 2008 Plan is filed as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The 2008 Plan is consistent in all material respects with the plan applicable to previously outstanding performance shares, but clarifies certain terms and is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the 2008 Plan, the Committee awarded a targeted number of performance shares to each plan participant. The executive earns the performance shares only if pre-set, Company-wide financial objectives for the three-year period ending with fiscal 2011 are achieved. For the fiscal 2009 to 2011 plan cycle, the financial objectives are specified levels of three-year compounded growth in earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT") and three-year average return on average invested capital, after tax ("ROAIC"). Payouts on earned performance shares are made in shares of Company common stock and may be more or less than the target award, depending on actual performance. Dividend equivalents will be paid on the portion of performance shares actually earned at the regular dividend rate over the performance period. Dividend equivalents will be paid in shares of Company common stock. In determining performance, the Committee adjusts for extraordinary corporate events to avoid distorting results. In addition, the Committee has retained the discretion to reduce awards as appropriate in light of exceptional circumstances, to make payouts upon a change of control (as defined in the 2008 Plan) and to make pro rata payouts of the performance shares actually earned in the event of an executive's departure other than due to death, disability or retirement. In the event of a departure due to death, disability or retirement, a pro rata portion of the performance shares actually earned will be paid. All payouts are capped at three times target. A maximum payout would be achieved only with significant over-performance versus the plan objectives. The target number of performance shares awarded to the named executive officers on July 16, 2008 were: Mr. Rodkin, 100,000 performance shares; Mr. Hawaux, 32,000 performance shares; Mr. Gehring, 16,000 performance shares; Mr. Messel, 12,000 performance shares; and Mr. Sharpe, 32,000 performance shares. Any actual payout (including any above target payout) will depend on Company performance over the three-year performance period and be made, if at all, following the end of fiscal 2011.
Exhibit 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
*   Compensatory plan
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
Effective July 16, 2008, ConAgra Foods, Inc. ("Company") hereby adopts the ConAgra Foods, Inc. 2008 Performance Share Plan ("Plan"). Unless the context implies otherwise, capitalized terms used in this Plan have the meanings set forth in Section 16 below.
1. The purpose of the Plan is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of the Company and increase stockholder value by (a) motivating superior performance by means of Performance Shares, (b) encouraging and providing for the acquisition of an ownership interest in the Company by Participants and (c) enabling the Company to attract and retain the services of a management team responsible for the long-term financial success of the Company. The Plan supersedes the ConAgra Foods, Inc. Performance Share Plan that was adopted on May 29, 2006 (the "Prior Plan"). The terms of the Prior Plan shall continue to apply to all awards of Performance Shares made under and pursuant to the Prior Plan.
.
Purpose
2. The only persons eligible to participate in the Plan shall be those Participants selected by the Committee or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company ("CEO"); provided, however, the CEO may only select, and assign a targeted number of Performance Shares to, individuals who are not Covered Employees (and who are not expected to become Covered Employees by the time of payment of the Performance Shares).
.
Eligibility
3. Within 90 days of the commencement of each Performance Period, the Committee and/or CEO shall select the individuals, if any, who shall participate in the Plan for the applicable Performance Period. The Committee and/or CEO shall assign a targeted number of Performance Shares to each selected Participant for the Performance Period. Notwithstanding the preceding, the Committee or CEO may select additional Participants during the Performance Period and make an award to such Participants; provided, however, that no such additional Participant shall be a Covered Employee (or an employee who is expected to be a Covered Employee by the time of payment of the Performance Shares) unless such additional Participant's award does not begin until the next succeeding fiscal year, or such additional Participant's award is a General Award.
.
Participation
4.
.
Grant of Awards  Establishment of Performance Goals
 
 
5. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee by majority action thereof, is authorized to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interest of the Company, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan in order to carry out its provisions and purposes. The Committee has full authority to construe and interpret the Plan and any instruments evidencing an award under the Plan. Determinations, interpretations, or other actions made or taken by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, the Committee and, as applicable, the CEO shall determine the Participants to whom awards are granted and the terms and conditions of such awards. The Committee may require each individual earning an award under the Plan to enter into an agreement with the Company regarding the terms of the award and the employee's employment. Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of a stock exchange, the Committee may delegate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members.
.
Administration of the Plan
6.
.
Earning of Awards
 
 
 
7. Except as provided in Section 8, Performance Shares earned hereunder shall be paid (i) after the end of the Performance Period, (ii) after the Committee has certified in writing that the material terms of this Plan were satisfied and that awards were accurately computed according to the terms of the Plan, and (iii) on or before the later of (a) the fifteenth day of the third month that begins after the month containing the end of the Performance Period or (b) the fifteenth day of the third month that begins after the end of the Participant's tax year in which the end of the Performance Period occurs. All awards of Performance Shares hereunder, including dividend equivalent payments, shall be paid in shares of Stock, with any fractional share equal to or greater than one-half share rounded up to the next whole share and any fractional share less than one-half share rounded down to the next whole share.
.
Distribution of Performance Shares Earned
8.
Termination of Employment
 
 
 
9. Upon the payment of earned Performance Shares, the Participant shall receive additional shares of Stock representing dividend equivalents. The amount of dividend equivalents for each Performance Share earned shall equal the dividends
.
Dividends and Voting Rights
paid on one share of Stock during the period between the beginning of the Performance Period and the date of distribution. A Participant shall not have voting or any other rights with respect to any Performance Shares or with respect to the Stock until the Stock is delivered to the Participant.
10. Upon a Change of Control, the Company may, at the Board's, or the Human Resources Committee's, as the case may be, sole and absolute discretion, pay the Participant all or a portion of the Participant's award hereunder. The amounts paid may be based upon (a) a proration of the Participant's target Performance Shares, (b) a proration of the projected Performance Shares at the time of the Change of Control, or (c) a pro rata amount computed at the end of the fiscal year. Any proration shall be based upon the number of completed months elapsed in the Performance Period through the date of the Change of Control. Any payments made under this Section 10 shall be paid no later than the fifteenth day of the third month that begins after the later of (i) the end of the Participant's tax year in which the Change in Control occurs or (ii) the end of the Company's fiscal year in which the Change in Control occurs.
.
Payments Upon Change of Control
11. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, Qualified Performance-Based Awards shall be made pursuant to the ConAgra Foods, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan ("EIP") or any successor incentive plan approved by the Company's stockholders, and to the extent necessary for compliance with Code Section 162(m) for the tax deductibility of an award, the provisions of the EIP shall apply to the awards hereunder. Awards earned and Stock distributed hereunder shall be deemed granted and distributed under the ConAgra Foods 2006 Stock Plan ("Stock Plan") or any successor stock plan approved by the Company's stockholders. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan, the provisions of the Stock Plan shall apply to this Plan and the awards hereunder.
.
Related Plans
12. .
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. The Company intends that compensation under the Plan payable to Covered Employees will, to the extent practicable, constitute qualified "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m), unless otherwise determined by the Committee. Accordingly, the provisions of the Plan shall be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m). If any provision of the Plan or any award that is granted to a Covered Employee does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m), such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
Compliance with Code Section 162(m).
14. In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as directors or as members of the Committee or otherwise, the members of the Committee shall be indemnified by the Company against reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan or any award granted thereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof, provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company, or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment or settlement in any such action, suit or proceeding, except as to matters as to which the Committee member has been negligent or engaged in misconduct in the performance of his duties; provided, that within 60 days after institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, a Committee member shall in writing offer the Company the opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same.
.
Indemnification
15. The Board may, in its sole and absolute discretion and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate any or all of the provisions of the Plan without providing any prior notice to Participants; , , no amendment, modification or termination shall affect the rights of any Participant with respect to a previously granted award, without the written consent of the Participant. However, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and any award, without participant consent, to the extent necessary to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations or changes to applicable laws, rules or regulations (including but in no way limited to Code Sections 162(m) and 409A).
.
Amendment or Termination of Plan
provided
however
16. Whenever used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
.
Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Committee makes the opportunity to receive an award subject to a particular Performance Target, the Committee shall adopt or confirm a written definition of that Performance Target at the time the Performance Target is established, provided that the Committee retains the discretion to forgo such written definition in connection with a General Award. The Performance Target for an award may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to a specific division, subsidiary, business unit, department, region, or function. A Performance Target may be defined relative to the performance of other corporations. If more than one individual performance goal is specified by the Committee in defining a Performance Target, the Committee shall also specify, in writing, whether one, all or some other number of such goals must be attained in order for the Performance Target to be met.
 
 
 
 
 


