FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20090326075939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On March 26, 2009, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on third quarter fiscal 2009 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
          The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment and earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such supplemental financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements. Management believes the presentation of supplemental financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability is relevant to an investor and facilitates investor understanding of continuing operations and segment performance and trends.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued March 26, 2009
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Third Quarter Highlights
:
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
OMAHA, Neb., March 26, 2009  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2009 third quarter ended Feb. 22, 2009. Overall sales grew 6%. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.43 for the quarter, an increase of 26% from prior-year levels of $0.34. Excluding $0.03 per diluted share of net benefit in the current quarter from items impacting comparability, diluted EPS from continuing operations in the current quarter was $0.40, an increase of 18% from $0.34 in the year-ago period. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "I am pleased that Consumer Foods profits grew over prior-year amounts and that we are positioned for even more improvement from that segment in the fiscal fourth quarter. Given our recent new product introductions, moderating inflation and strong cost savings, the foundation for this segment is much stronger than in recent years."
He continued, "We expected the slight decline in Commercial Foods profits given the exceptionally high profits generated in the year-ago period by capitalizing on opportunities in the turbulent wheat markets. We are confident in the strength of our underlying Commercial Foods operations and the ability of our management to navigate the current challenging economic conditions. We expect both of our operating segments to perform well in the fourth quarter and for supply chain savings and SG&A efficiencies to continue to be strong, resulting in fiscal 2009 EPS of slightly above $1.50, excluding items impacting comparability."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,014 million and operating profit of $245 million in the fiscal third quarter, and $1,921 million of sales and $218 million of operating profit in the year-ago period.
The following segment commentary relates to comparable performance unless otherwise indicated (see page 10 for Regulation G reconciliation).
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
Consumer Foods' comparable sales growth was 5%, reflecting 10% contribution from pricing and mix, partially offset by a 4% decline in unit volume and a 1% negative impact from foreign exchange. A significant portion of the volume decline was attributable to two brands, popcorn and peanut butter, as well as mix improvement efforts in the foodservice operations. The drop in volume reflected the intentional elimination of some very low-margin business in favor of more focus behind higher-margin popcorn. The decrease in peanut butter reflected extremely high promotional activity as part of the brand's reintroduction in the year-ago period, as well as the negative impact on the category stemming from a recent recall by another company.
ACT II
Peter Pan
ACT II
Orville Redenbacher's
Peter Pan
Most of the segment's major brands posted year-over-year sales increases for the quarter. Brand details and sub-segment performance can be found in the financial information and Q&A document accompanying this release.
As part of transforming its frozen foods business and building on its strong snacks platform, the company recently introduced several new products, including:
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
The frozen products started shipping on Feb. 9, 2009, and the company expects to reach its targeted distribution for these items by the middle of the fiscal fourth quarter.
Consumer Foods' comparable operating profit increased 6% over prior year amounts to $245 million. Input cost inflation was approximately $140 million, which was significant, although less intense than in recent quarters. Inflation was partially offset by higher-than-planned supply chain savings as well as lower SG&A expense. Marketing expense increased, partly in connection with the new products introduced during the quarter.
The company expects stronger comparable year-over-year operating profit improvement for this segment in the fiscal fourth quarter primarily due to an expected moderation of inflation, favorable cost savings trends, new product traction in the marketplace, the ongoing transformation of the frozen foods operations, and the benefit of an extra week.
For the fiscal third quarter, sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,121 million, 8% ahead of year-ago amounts, primarily reflecting higher sales at Lamb Weston and, to a lesser extent, at ConAgra Mills. Segment operating profit was $140 million for the quarter, 3% below year-ago amounts. The modest operating profit decline reflects a difficult comparison with exceptionally high milling profits in the year-ago period generated by abnormal wheat market volatility. Overall operating profit performance during the quarter reflected continued strong performance by ConAgra Mills, although profits for those operations were below the exceptionally high amounts earned a year ago. The segment's operating profit performance also reflects a more modest rate of growth from Lamb Weston and a decline at Gilroy Food and Flavors, largely the result of challenging market conditions for foodservice and industrial customers.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
The company expects the segment to post strong operating profit results in the fiscal fourth quarter given momentum in the milling operations, expectations for continued solid top-line performance at Lamb Weston, and the benefit of an extra week.
Hedging Activities
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company uses hedging activities to manage the risk in its plans for the cost of various commodity inputs and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange. To improve the transparency of segment operating results, the company began utilizing a new methodology for presenting derivative gains and losses in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. This methodology temporarily classifies mark-to-market gains and losses as unallocated Corporate expense. The company later transfers the gains or losses to segment operating profit when the underlying item being hedged is expensed in cost of goods sold for the applicable operating segment. Prior-year amounts utilized a different methodology, which immediately classified the hedge gain or loss in the segment operating results regardless of when the underlying item was expensed. Prior-year fiscal third-quarter results include $21 million of net derivative gains ($14 million in Consumer Foods and $7 million in Commercial Foods other than the milling operations). This change in methodology was discussed in detail in the company's first-quarter fiscal 2009 earnings release dated Sept. 18, 2008. An example of the new methodology is presented in the written Q&A document accompanying that release.
For the fiscal third quarter, $46 million of previously reported mark-to-market losses held as unallocated Corporate expense was reclassified as operating segment expense: $29 million to the Consumer Foods segment and $17 million to the Commercial Foods segment. Separately, unallocated Corporate expense increased by $11 million due to additional mark-to-market losses during the quarter, temporarily classified as unallocated Corporate expense until reclassification to operating segments at a later date. This quarter's net $35 million benefit to unallocated Corporate expense ($46 million of benefit from reclassifying mark-to-market losses to other segments, partially offset by $11 million of additional mark-to-market losses) is listed as an item impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
Other Items
Capital Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
Outlook
The company reaffirms its expectations for fiscal 2009 diluted EPS from continuing operations to be slightly above $1.50, excluding items impacting comparability.
Major Items Affecting Third-quarter Fiscal 2009 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.43 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2009:
Included in the $0.34 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT to discuss these results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-206-4916 and 1-913-312-1468, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 7586348. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at http://investor.conagrafoods.com. To view recent company news, please visit http://media.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying potato, other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating plans, the competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
Regulation G Disclosure
Continuing Operations
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 15
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions)

Exhibit 99.2
Q3 FY09 Question & Answer
March 26, 2009
- Alexia - - Andy Capp's - - Banquet - - Blue Bonnet - - Chef Boyardee - - Crunch n Munch - - DAVID - - Healthy Choice - - Hebrew National - - Hunt's - - Kid Cuisine - - Manwich - - Marie Callender's - - Orville Redenbacher's - - Parkay - - Reddi-wip - - Ro*Tel - - Rosarita - - Slim Jim - - Snack Pack - - Wesson - - Wolf
- ACT II - - Egg Beaters - - PAM - - Peter Pan
 
Net Sales
Profit Contribution Margin
(Net sales less cost of goods sold and advertising and promotion expense)
 
 
 
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating plans, the competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.


