FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20090922074415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On September 22, 2009, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on the first quarter fiscal 2010 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
          The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess our operating performance. These measures are reconciled in the release to the measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, our diluted earnings per share and operating performance measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Teresa Paulsen           Vice President, Corporate Communication ConAgra Foods, Inc. tel: 402-240-5210
For more information, contact:
MEDIA
Chris Klinefelter           Vice President, Investor Relations ConAgra Foods, Inc. tel: 402-240-4154
ANALYSTS
www.conagrafoods.com
          
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
First Quarter Highlights:
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 22, 2009  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2010 first quarter ended Aug. 30, 2009. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.37, including $0.01 per diluted share of net expense from items impacting comparability. Excluding those items, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.38. For the same period a year ago, diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.23 included net $0.04 of expense from items impacting comparability. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "We are off to a strong start in fiscal 2010. The Consumer Foods segment posted significantly improved operating profits, along with good sales trends across the consumer branded portfolio, and we expect the balance of the year to show strong profits for this segment due to manageable inflation, good cost savings, sales growth, and favorable mix. Our Commercial Foods segment is poised for a solid profit performance in line with our expectations, and we are confident we will deliver our raised EPS guidance for this fiscal year."
: During the quarter, the company transferred the frozen operations from the Consumer Foods segment to the Commercial Foods segment, resulting in slightly changed historical amounts for segment sales and profits. The Q&A document related to this release gives the current presentation of historical segment amounts, reflecting this change.
Minor Segment Change
Alexia
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $1,860 million and operating profit of $250 million for the quarter. Sales increased 1% as reported, which includes an approximate 2% negative impact from lower sales of products resulting from the June 9, 2009, Garner, North Carolina, plant accident. Additionally, as part of ongoing initiatives, the company intentionally eliminated a number of low-margin SKUs and scaled back on some low-margin customer channels and geographic markets, which negatively impacted sales by approximately 1%, but which improved profit margins. Unfavorable foreign exchange rates negatively impacted sales growth by approximately 1%.
Slim Jim
Unit volumes declined 1% as reported, which includes an approximate 2% negative impact from lower sales of products. Additionally, the company's SKU rationalization actions and customer and market changes referenced above negatively impacted unit volumes by approximately 1%.
Slim Jim
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
Operating profit of $250 million was 34% ahead of last year's $186 million, as reported. Excluding $11 million of net benefit in the year-ago period from items impacting comparability, operating profit of $250 million in the current quarter was 43% above the comparable year-ago amount of $175 million. Despite lower profitability from the business, the segment posted year-over-year profit improvement due to strong cost savings, improved mix and pricing, as well as more manageable input cost inflation. The company notes that significantly higher commodity costs in the year-ago period created a favorable profit comparison in the current quarter. Advertising and promotion expense increased slightly versus the year-ago period.
Slim Jim
production volume and service levels are in the process of being restored following the Garner, North Carolina, accident. Aside from unusual costs and insurance reimbursement related to such, which are discussed in the section on Major Items Impacting First-quarter Fiscal 2010 EPS Comparability toward the end of this document, the company estimates that Consumer Foods profitability was negatively impacted by approximately $10 million due to lower volumes. A substantial portion of this amount, as well as any additional foregone operating profit in the remaining quarters this fiscal year, is expected to be reimbursed to the company later in the fiscal year as part of its business interruption insurance coverage. The company will comment on the timing of the expected reimbursement when details are finalized, and will consider such payments to be part of ongoing operating profitability for the segment.
Note:
Slim Jim
Slim Jim
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,101 million, 9% below last year's $1,207 million; more than $100 million of the sales decline was the result of lower flour prices resulting from lower underlying wheat costs. Segment operating profit was $141 million, 5% above last year's $134 million. While the difficult restaurant environment negatively impacted volumes for Lamb Weston specialty potato products, those operations posted a slight improvement in sales and profits due to the impact of an acquisition, improved mix, pricing necessitated by higher input costs, and operating efficiencies. Flour milling profitability increased, reflecting modest profits in the year-ago period and thus a favorable comparison; the current-quarter profit improvement also reflects milling efficiencies and favorable market conditions. Profits for the seasonings, blends, flavorings, and dehydrated products operations were below year-ago amounts which included a $5 million gain from a sale of property. The company expects full-year fiscal 2010 operating profit for this segment to be in line with that of fiscal 2009.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded $8 million of net hedging loss as unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, and $33 million of net hedging loss as unallocated Corporate expense in the year-ago period. The company identifies both of these amounts as items impacting comparability. Those amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity being hedged is expensed in segment cost of goods sold.
Other Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Capital Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Discontinued Operations
Year-ago amounts included $0.71 of diluted EPS from discontinued operations, reflecting the gain from the June 2008 divestiture of the Trading & Merchandising operations. There was no diluted EPS contribution from discontinued operations in the current quarter.
Outlook
The company expects fiscal 2010 full-year diluted EPS from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability, to approach $1.70, reflecting the strong performance of the Consumer Foods segment in the first quarter and expectations for continued progress for this segment throughout the balance of the fiscal year.
Major Items Impacting First-quarter Fiscal 2010 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.37 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
Included in the $0.23 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-791-4326 and 1-913-905-3164, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 2506640. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at . To view recent company news, please visit .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
http://media.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Annual Stockholders' Meeting Webcast
The company will webcast its 2009 Annual Stockholders' Meeting on Friday, Sept. 25, 2009. This event will be webcast live beginning at 2:30 p.m. EDT. The webcast will be archived starting at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Friday, Sept. 25, and can be accessed at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying potato, other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
www.conagrafoods.com
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
Regulation G Disclosure
Continuing Operations
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions)

Exhibit 99.2
Q1 FY10 Question & Answer September 22, 2009
     Sales for were in line with last year's sales for the quarter.
DAVID
 
 
 
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (In millions)
 


