FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20090217075420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Today, February 17, 2009, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference, which is scheduled to begin at 9:15 a.m. EST this morning. The presentation will be webcast. The press release also provides information on expected financial results for the Company's second half of fiscal 2009. The press release and slides used in the presentation by the Company are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
     The presentation reaffirms the Company's previously issued expectations for fiscal 2009 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability. Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure provides a useful tool for investors in examining the Company's expected operational results for the year and facilitates year-to-year comparisons.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONAGRA FOODS REAFFIRMS FISCAL 2009 EPS GUIDANCE AND LONG-TERM EPS GROWTH EXPECTATIONS AT CONSUMER CONFERENCE
OMAHA, Neb., Feb. 17, 2009 Today ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) will update the Consumer Analyst Group of New York on the company's progress and outlook at that group's annual conference in Boca Raton, Fla. ConAgra Foods CEO Gary Rodkin, Consumer Foods President Andr Hawaux, and Chief Financial Officer John Gehring will discuss key strategic priorities and share the company's current financial outlook.
Regarding the near-term outlook (EPS amounts refer to earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
inflation, anticipated benefits from its offering of brands and products that appeal to value-conscious consumers, and new product introductions.
Regarding the long-term outlook (EPS amounts refer to earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability):
In today's presentation, Rodkin and Hawaux will detail the company's strategic priorities, a significant rejuvenation of the company's frozen foods business, and new products that leverage the company's strengths in the convenient meals and snacking categories. The product innovations are based on in-depth research about consumer preferences and needs, and reflect the company's emphasis on nutrition, convenience, value, and taste. Progressive and innovative marketing campaigns will support these innovations.
"We continue to bring meaningful innovation and improve our marketing efforts in ways that we believe will strengthen our brand portfolio for the long term," Rodkin said. "While economic conditions are difficult right now, we are confident that our refined strategic focus, the new items we are bringing to market, the value orientation of our portfolio, and our cost-saving programs will allow us to generate strong profitability. We remain committed to sustainable profitable growth and look forward to discussing our future progress."
For more details please refer to the presentation itself, which will be Webcast live today at 9:15 a.m. EST at and archived for one year.
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandiser and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence,
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
supplying potato, other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials, product pricing, future economic circumstances, industry conditions, the company's ability to execute its operating plans, the competitive environment and related market conditions, operating efficiencies, the ultimate impact of the company's recalls, access to capital, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


