FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20091014110558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 14, 2009, members of management of ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") will meet with members of the investment community. The Company expects to confirm its previously announced guidance that fiscal 2010 full-year diluted EPS from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability, is expected to approach $1.70. This reflects the strong performance of the Companys Consumer Foods segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and expectations for continued progress for this segment throughout the balance of the fiscal year.
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on managements current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The Company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this Form 8-K should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the Companys actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the Companys ability to execute its operating plans; the suc cess of the Companys innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the Companys recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the Companys businesses and other risks described in the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this Form 8-K, which speak only as of the date made.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


