FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20090928141115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
e) On September 25, 2009, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company"), the Companys stockholders approved the ConAgra Foods 2009 Stock Plan (the "Stock Plan") and the amended and restated ConAgra Foods Executive Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan"). The Stock Plan is designed to foster and promote the long-term financial success of the Company and increase stockholder value by motivating superior performance through the grant of stock-based awards. Stock-based awards may be made under the Stock Plan to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and to the Companys consultants and non-employee directors. The Stock Plan authorizes the issuance of up to (i) 29,500,000 shares of the Companys common stock, plus (ii) any shares that have not been awarded or are not subject to awards under the ConAgra Foods 2006 Stock Plan as of the time of approval of the Stock Plan, plus (iii) any shares subject to awards that are cancel led, terminated or otherwise settled without the issuance of common stock under the Companys predecessor equity plans, except for shares used to pay the exercise price of or withholding taxes related to outstanding awards under the predecessor plans and common stock not actually issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding stock appreciation right. The shares authorized under the Stock Plan may be issued pursuant to grants of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights and similar equity-based awards. Grants under the Stock Plan are subject to certain individual, award-specific and other limitations provided for in the Stock Plan. The Stock Plan also allows for the grant of performance-based stock awards that qualify under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Awards under the Stock Plan may be subject to acceleration in the event of a change in control of the Company, as provided for in the Stock Plan. A description of the other terms and c onditions of the Stock Plan is provided under the heading "Proposal # 2: Approval of the ConAgra Foods 2009 Stock Plan" in the Companys definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 12, 2009 (the "Proxy Statement"). The description of the Stock Plan contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Stock Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The Incentive Plan is designed to provide performance-based incentives to eligible participants who have significant responsibility for the Companys success. Incentive awards may be made under the Incentive Plan to the Companys executive and senior officers and employees performing similar duties. The Incentive Plan is intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Awards under the Incentive Plan are subject to certain individual limitations provided for in the Incentive Pl an. A description of the other terms and conditions of the Incentive Plan is provided under the heading "Proposal #3: Approval of the ConAgra Foods Executive Incentive Plan" in the Proxy Statement. The description of the Incentive Plan contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Incentive Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 10.1 ConAgra Foods 2009 Stock Plan* 10.2 ConAgra Foods Executive Incentive Plan* * Compensatory Plans
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
1.1  . The name of the plan shall be the ConAgra Foods 2009 Stock Plan (the "Plan").
Name
1.2  . The purpose of the Plan is to foster and promote the long-term financial success of the Company and increase stockholder value by (a) motivating superior performance by means of stock incentives, (b) encouraging and providing for the acquisition of an ownership interest in the Company by Participants and (c) enabling the Company to attract and retain the services of a management team responsible for the long-term financial success of the Company. If approved by Company's stockholders, the Plan shall replace the ConAgra Foods 2006 Stock Plan (the "2006 Plan"), and no further awards shall be made under the 2006 Plan.
Purpose of Plan
2.1  . Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions
The only persons eligible to participate in the Plan shall be those Participants selected by (i) the Committee, or (ii) a designee to whom such authority has been delegated by the Committee pursuant to Section 4.4.
4.1  . Subject to Section 4.4., the Plan shall be administered by the Committee comprised of no fewer than two members of the Board. Each Committee member shall satisfy the requirements for (i) an "independent director" for purposes of the Company's Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) an "independent director" under any rules and regulations of the stock exchange or other recognized market or quotation system on which the Stock is principally traded or quoted at the relevant time, (iii) a "non-employee director" for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Act, and (iv) an "outside director" under Code Section 162(m). If the Committee does not exist, or for any other reason determined by the Board, the Board may take any action under the Plan (with such recusals as may be appropriate) that would otherwise be the responsibility of the Committee.
Committee Members
4.2  . The Committee shall determine the Participants to whom Awards shall be granted, the type or types of Awards to be granted, the number of shares of Stock subject to each Award, and the terms and conditions of any and all such Awards. The Committee may establish different terms and conditions for different types of Awards, for different Participants receiving the same type of Awards, and for the same Participant for each Award such Participant may receive, whether or not granted at different times.
Power to Grant
4.3  . The Committee shall be responsible for the administration of the Plan. The Committee, by majority action thereof, is authorized to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or advisable to protect the interests of the Company, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan in order to carry out its provisions and purposes. Determinations, interpretations, or other actions made or taken by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons.
Administration
4.4  . To the full extent permitted by law and the rules of any exchange on which the shares of Stock are traded, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, (a) delegate to one or more of its members any or all of its responsibilities and powers, including all responsibilities and authority described under Sections 4.2 and 4.3;(b) delegate to any individual officer of the Company the authority to designate recipients of Awards and the number and type of Awards granted, although such officer cannot use this authority to grant awards to executive officers, Eligible Directors or him or herself; and (c) grant authority to Employees or designate Employees of the Company to execute documents on behalf of the Committee or to otherwise assist the Committee in the administration and operation of the Plan. Nothing in this Section 4.4, however, shall permit the grant of an Award to any executive officer or other Employee who is reasonably expected to be covered by Code Section 162(m), except by two or more "outside directors."
Delegation by Committee
4.5  . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of the Plan or to comply with provisions of laws in other countries in which the Company operates or has employees, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to (i) determine which Participants (if any) employed by the Company outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan, (ii) modify the terms and conditions of any Awards made to such Participants, and (iii) establish subplans and modified Option exercise procedures and other Award terms and procedures to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements, however, shall include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the stockholders of the Company.
International Participants
5.1  . Subject to the provisions of Section 5.4, the number of shares of Stock subject to Awards under the Plan may not exceed (i) 29,500,000 shares of Stock, plus (ii) any shares of Stock that are authorized to be awarded under the 2006 Plan and that, as of the effective date of this Plan, have not been issued and are not subject to outstanding awards granted under the 2006 Plan, and (iii) any shares of Stock subject to an outstanding award under the Predecessor Plans that expires, is forfeited or becomes unexercisable for any reason, provided, the following shares of Stock subject to an award under the Predecessor Plans may not again be made available for issuance of Awards under the Plan: (x) shares used to pay the exercise price of an outstanding award, (y) shares used to pay withholding taxes related to an outstanding award, or (z) shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding SAR. The shares to be delivered under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of treasury Stock or authorized but unissued Stock, not reserved for any other purpose.
Number
5.2  . The maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted to any one Participant in any fiscal year under the Plan is 15% of the aggregate number of shares of Stock available for Awards under Section 5.1. A maximum of 50% of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be issued as Awards other than Options or SARs.
Limitations
5.3  . Any shares of Stock subject to an Award which for any reason is cancelled, is terminated, lapses or expires without the issuance of any Stock shall again be available for Awards under the Plan; provided, the following shares of Stock may not again be made available for issuance as Awards under the Plan: (i) shares used to pay the exercise price of an outstanding Award, (ii) shares used to pay withholding taxes related to an outstanding Award, or (iii) shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding SAR.
Cancelled, Terminated, Forfeited or Surrendered Awards
5.4  . If any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, reverse stock split, or stock dividend; or any corporate transaction such as a reorganization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, combination or separation, including a spin-off, of the Company or sale or other disposition by the Company of all or a portion of its assets, any other change in the Company's corporate structure, or any distribution to stockholders (other than a cash dividend that is not an extraordinary cash dividend) results in the outstanding shares of Stock, or any securities exchanged therefor or received in their place, being exchanged for a different number or class of shares or other securities of ConAgra Foods, Inc., or for shares of stock or other securities of any other corporation (or new, different or additional shares or other securities of ConAgra Foods, Inc. or of any other corporation being received by the holders of outstanding shares of Stock), or a material change in the market value of the outstanding shares of Stock as a result of the change, transaction or distribution, then equitable adjustments shall be made by the Committee, as it determines are necessary and appropriate, in: (a) the aggregate number and type of shares of Stock (or other property) available for the grant of Awards under Section 5.1, (b) the maximum number of shares of Stock (or other property) that can be granted to any individual in any fiscal year under Section 5.2, (c) the number and type of shares (or other property) and exercise price with respect to outstanding Options and SARs, and (d) the number, prices and dollar value of other outstanding Awards. However, in no event shall this Section 5.4 be construed to permit a modification (including a replacement) of an Option or SAR if such modification either: (i) would result in accelerated recognition of income or imposition of additional tax under Code Section 409A; or (ii) would cause the Option or SAR subject to the modification (or cause a replacement Option or SAR) to be subject to Code Section 409A, provided that the restriction of this clause (ii) shall not apply to any Option or SAR that, at the time it is granted or otherwise, is designated as being deferred compensation subject to Code Section 409A. Any adjustment by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan.
Adjustment in Capitalization
5.5  . No dividends or dividend equivalents shall be paid on Options or SARs. The Committee may at the time of the grant of a Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, or Other Stock-Based Award provide that any dividends declared on common stock or dividend equivalents be (i) paid to the Participant, (ii) accumulated for the benefit of the Participant and paid to the Participant only after the expiration of any restrictions, or (iii) not paid or accumulated.
Dividend Equivalent Rights
5.6  . In the event the Company assumes outstanding equity awards or the right or obligation to make such awards in connection with the acquisition of or merger with another corporation or business entity, the Committee shall make such adjustments in the terms of such assumed or substituted awards under the Plan, including the number of shares subject to such award and the exercise price, as it shall deem equitable and appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. Such assumed or substituted awards will generally not count against the aggregate number of shares available for issuance of Awards under the Plan, provided in each case that the requirements for the exemption for mergers and acquisitions under rules and regulations of the stock exchange or other recognized market or quotation system on which the Stock is principally traded or quoted at the relevant time.
Assumed Awards
6.1  . Options may be granted to Participants at such time or times as shall be determined by the Committee. Options granted under the Plan may be of two types: (i) Incentive Stock Options and (ii) Nonqualified Stock Options. Each Option shall be evidenced by an Option Agreement that shall specify the type of Option granted, the exercise price, the duration of the Option, the number of shares of Stock to which the Option pertains, the exercisability (if any) of the Option in the event of death, retirement, disability or termination of employment, and such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as the Committee shall determine. Only Participants who are Employees shall be eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options. Options may also be granted in replacement of or upon assumption of options previously issued by companies or entities acquired by the Company by merger or stock purchase, and any assumed or replacement options may have the same terms as the options so replaced or assumed, provided that the number of shares and exercise price shall be adjusted as provided in Section 5.6.
Grant of Options
6.2  . Subject to adjustments to an exercise price permitted pursuant to Section 5.4, Nonqualified Stock Options and Incentive Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall have an exercise price which is not less than the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is granted, unless the Option was granted in replacement of or upon assumption of options previously issued by companies or entities acquired by the Company by merger or stock purchase.
Option Price
6.3  . Options awarded to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable at such times and shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee may impose, subject to the Committee's right to accelerate the exercisability of such Option in its discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option shall be exercisable for more than ten years after the date on which it is granted.
Exercise of Options
6.4  . The Committee shall establish procedures governing the exercise of Options, which shall require that notice of exercise be given and that the Option price be paid in full in cash or cash equivalents, including by personal check, at the time of exercise or pursuant to any arrangement that the Committee shall approve. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to make payment (i) by tendering, by either actual delivery of shares or by attestation, shares of Stock already owned by the Participant valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of exercise or (ii) by electing to have the Company retain Stock which would otherwise be issued on exercise of the Option, valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of exercise. The Committee may permit a Participant to elect to pay the exercise price upon the exercise of an Option by irrevocably authorizing a third party to sell shares of Stock (or a sufficient portion of the shares) acquired upon the exercise of the Option and remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire exercise price and any withholding taxes resulting from such exercise. The Committee may approve other methods of payment. As soon as practicable after receipt of a notice of exercise and full payment of the exercise price, the Company shall deliver to the Participant, either by electronic means or by stock certificate or certificates, the acquired shares of Stock.
Payment
6.5  . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, except with respect to the Committee's discretion to terminate or adjust awards under Section 11.5, no term of this Plan relating to Incentive Stock Options shall be interpreted, amended or altered, nor shall any discretion or authority granted under the Plan be so exercised, so as to disqualify the Plan under Code Section 422, or, without the consent of any Participant affected thereby, to cause any Incentive Stock Option previously granted to fail to qualify for the Federal income tax treatment afforded under Code Section 421.
Incentive Stock Options
6.6  . Other than in connection with a change in capitalization (as described in Section 5.4 of the Plan) or an adjustment of assumed or substituted awards (as described in Section 5.6 of the Plan), the exercise price of an Option may not be reduced without stockholder approval.
No Repricing
6.7  . Options shall not be granted under the Plan in consideration for the delivery of Stock to the Company in payment of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation under any other Option or SAR.
No Reload Grants
7.1  . Any Award or formula for granting an Award under the Plan made to Eligible Directors shall be approved by the Board. With respect to Awards to such directors, all rights, powers and authorities vested in the Committee under the Plan shall instead be exercised by the Board. The maximum number of shares of Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted to Eligible Directors under the Plan in any fiscal year is 5% of the aggregate number of shares of Stock available for Awards under Section 5.1.
Director Awards
8.1  . SARs may be granted to Participants in tandem with any Option granted under the Plan, either at or after the time of the grant of such Option, subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine. Each SAR granted in tandem with an Option shall only be exercisable to the extent that the corresponding Option is exercisable, and shall terminate upon termination or exercise of the corresponding Option. Upon the exercise of any SAR granted in tandem with an Option, the corresponding Option shall terminate.
SARs In Tandem with Options
8.2  . SARs may also be granted to Participants separately from any Option, subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine.
Other SARs
8.3  . Subject to adjustments to an exercise price permitted pursuant to Section 5.4, SARs granted pursuant to the Plan shall have an exercise price which is not less than the Fair Market Value on the date the SAR is granted, unless the SAR was granted in replacement of or upon assumption of stock appreciation rights previously issued by companies or entities acquired by the Company by merger or stock purchase.
SAR Price
8.4  . SARs awarded to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable at such times and shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee may impose, subject to the Committee's right to accelerate the exercisability of such SAR in its discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no SAR shall be exercisable for more than ten years after the date on which it is granted.
Exercise of SARs
8.5  . The Committee shall establish procedures governing the exercise of SARs, which shall require that notice of exercise be given and that the Participant satisfy any tax withholding requirements resulting from such exercise as provided in Section 11.4. As soon as practicable after receipt of a notice of exercise and full payment of any withholding taxes, the Company shall deliver to the Participant either by electronic means or by stock certificate or certificates the acquired shares of Stock.
Payment
8.6  . Other than in connection with a change in capitalization (as described in Section 5.4 of the Plan) or an adjustment of assumed or substituted awards (as described in Section 5.6 of the Plan), the exercise price of a SAR may not be reduced without stockholder approval.
No Repricing
8.7  . SARs shall not be granted under the Plan in consideration for the delivery of Stock to the Company in payment of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation under any other SAR or Option.
No Reload Grants
9.1  . Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Other Stock-Based Awards, and Performance Shares may be granted to Participants at such times and in such amounts, and subject to such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as shall be determined by the Committee.
General
9.2  . Each grant of Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions, which may relate to continued employment with the Company, performance of the Company, or other restrictions, as the Committee may determine. The Committee may accelerate or waive restrictions associated with an Award of Restricted Stock in whole or in part at any time in its discretion.
Grant of Restricted Stock
9.3  . Other Stock-Based Awards shall be in such form, and dependent on such conditions, as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, the right to receive or vest with respect to, one or more shares of Stock (or the equivalent cash value of such Stock) upon the completion of a specified period of service, the occurrence of an event, and/or the attainment of performance objectives. Such Other Stock-Based Awards may include Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, and stock Awards permitted under Sections 7.1 and 9.5.
Other Stock-Based Awards, General
9.4  . The special rules of this Section 9.4 shall apply with respect to Qualified Performance-Based Awards. The performance goals selected by the Committee for any such Award shall be based on one or more of the performance goals described below in this Section 9.4.
Awards Subject to Code Section 162(m)
9.5  . A maximum of 5% of the aggregate number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be issued as stock Awards, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares having no minimum vesting period and no required attainment of performance criteria; subject to the foregoing, and except as specified by the Committee in an Award with respect to the occurrence of a Change of Control, death, disability or termination of employment, no Award (other than an Option or SAR) based on performance criteria shall be based on a performance period of less than one year, and no Award (other than an Option or SAR) that is conditioned on continued employment or the passage of time shall provide for vesting in less than three years from the grant date of the award, provided, however, that partial vesting pursuant to an Agreement may occur during each year of this 3-year period. The limitations of this Section 9.5 shall not apply to Awards that are assumed or issued in substitution for other awards pursuant to a merger, acquisition or other corporate transaction.
Certain Limitations on Awards
10.1.  . The Board may from time to time amend, modify or terminate any or all of the provisions of the Plan, subject to the provisions of this Section 10.1. No amendment or termination shall be adopted or effective if it would result in accelerated recognition of income or imposition of additional tax under Code Section 409A or, except as otherwise provided in the amendment, would cause amounts that were not otherwise subject to Code Section 409A to become subject to Section 409A. Furthermore, the Board may not make any amendment which would (i) materially modify the requirements for participation in the Plan, (ii) increase the number of shares of Stock subject to Awards under the Plan pursuant to Section 5.1, (iii) change the minimum exercise price for stock options as provided in Section 6.2, or (iv) extend the term of the Plan, in each case without the approval of a majority of the outstanding shares of Stock entitled to vote thereon. Except as specifically provided in the Plan or except to the minimum extent necessary to comply with applicable law, no amendment or modification of the Plan shall affect the rights of any Participant with respect to a previously granted Award, without the written consent of the Participant.
General
10.2.  . The Committee may, at any time, amend outstanding Agreements in a manner not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan; provided, however, except as provided in Section 11.5 or except to the minimum extent necessary to comply with applicable law, if such amendment is adverse to the Participant, as determined by the Committee, the amendment shall not be effective unless and until the Participant consents, in writing, to such amendment. To the extent not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the Committee may, at any time, amend an outstanding Agreement in a manner that is not unfavorable to the Participant without the consent of such Participant. Except for adjustments as provided in Sections 5.4 and 11.5 or in connection with the assumption or substitution of an award in a manner satisfying the provisions of Code Section 424(a), the Option exercise price of each Option and the exercise price of each SAR may not be changed or reduced after the date of grant nor may any outstanding Option or SAR granted under the Plan be surrendered to the Company as consideration for the grant of a new Option or SAR with a lower exercise price without approval of the Company's stockholders. In addition, Options or SARs under this Plan will not be cancelled in exchange for cash, other Awards or Options or SARS or payment when the exercise price of an Option or SAR is greater than the then current Fair Market Value of the Stock without stockholder approval.
Amendment of Agreement
10.3.  . All Awards shall be subject to the Committee's right to cancel such Awards and/or to impose forfeitures to the extent required under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the Committee determines that a present or former Employee has (i) used for profit or disclosed to unauthorized persons, confidential or trade secrets of the Company; (ii) breached any contract with or violated any fiduciary obligation to the Company; or (iii) engaged in any conduct which the Committee determines is injurious to the Company, the Committee may cause that Employee to forfeit his or her outstanding Awards under the Plan.
Termination of Award for Misconduct
10.4.  . No Award shall be granted under the Plan subsequent to September 25, 2019, or such earlier date as may be determined by the Board. No termination of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award previously granted.
Termination of Plan
11.1.  . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, no Awards granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability of Awards
11.2.  . Each Participant under the Plan may from time to time name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingent or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid or by whom any right under the Plan is to be exercised in case of his or her death. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant and will be effective only when filed in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, Awards outstanding at death may be exercised by the Participant's surviving spouse, if any, or otherwise by the Participant's estate.
Beneficiary Designation
11.3.  . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate any Participant's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company. No individual shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to receive any future Awards.
No Guarantee of Employment or Participation
11.4.  . The Company shall have the power to withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy all withholding tax requirements on any Award under the Plan, and the Company may defer issuance of Stock until such requirements are satisfied. Unless not permitted by the Committee at the time of the grant of an Award, a Participant may elect, subject to such conditions as the Committee shall impose, including conditions and restrictions intended to comply with securities laws and any Company policies regarding trading in securities, to satisfy any tax withholding requirements (i) by having shares of Stock otherwise issuable under the Plan withheld by the Company or by delivering to the Company previously acquired shares of Stock, in each case having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy all or part of the Participant's statutory minimum applicable withholding tax obligation associated with the transaction, or (ii) by remitting cash or check. Unless not permitted by the Committee at the time of grant of an Award and subject to any rules established by the Company, the Participant shall be able to satisfy additional tax withholding above the statutory minimum applicable withholding amounts by delivering to the Company previously acquired shares of Stock held by the Participant for at least six months, with a Fair Market Value equal to the additional withholding amounts, provided, however, the Participant shall not be entitled to deliver such additional shares if it would cause adverse accounting consequences for the Company.
Tax Withholding
11.5.  . Unless expressly provided otherwise in an Agreement, on the date of a Change of Control, all outstanding Options and SARs shall become immediately exercisable and all restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock and Other Stock-Based Awards shall lapse. "Change of Control" means:
Change of Control
The Committee, in its discretion, may terminate outstanding Options and SARs upon a Change in Control, provided that at least 30 days prior to the Change in Control (or such other reasonable period determined by the Committee if it is not feasible to provide 30 days notice), the Committee notifies the Participant that the Option and/or SAR will be terminated and, upon the consummation of the Change in Control, provides the Participant, at the election of the Committee, a payment of cash, property or a combination thereof that is determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and that is at least equal to the excess (if any) of the value of the consideration that would be received in such Change in Control by the stockholders of ConAgra Foods, Inc. relating to such Awards, over the exercise or purchase price (if any) for such Awards. Any Options or SARs with an exercise price greater than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock at the time of the Change in Control may be cancelled without payment.
11.6.  . The Company has established a securities trading policy (the "Policy") relative to disclosure and trading on inside information as described in the Policy. Under the Policy, certain Employees and Eligible Directors are prohibited from trading Stock or other securities of the Company except during certain "window periods" as described in the Policy. If, under the terms of the Agreement, the last day on which an Option or SAR can be exercised falls on a date that is not, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, within a window period permitted by the Policy, the applicable exercise period shall automatically be extended by this Section 11.6 until the second business day of, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, a window period under the Policy, but in no event beyond the expiration date of the Options or SARs. The Committee shall interpret and apply the extension automatically provided by the preceding sentence to ensure when possible without extending the exercise period beyond the expiration date that in no event shall the term of any Option or SAR expire except during a window period.
Special Rule Related to Securities Trading Policy
11.7.  . An Award under the Plan shall be subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, prescribe. Each grant of an Award to a Participant shall be evidenced by a written Agreement in such form as is determined by the Committee (or its designee pursuant to Section 4.4) setting forth the terms and conditions of such Award.
Agreements with Company
11.8.  . The Company intends that the Plan comply in all respects with Rule 16b-3 under the Act, and any ambiguities or inconsistencies in the construction of the Plan shall be interpreted to give effect to such intention. With respect to Participants covered by the Company's Executive Incentive Plan and to the extent (a) necessary for compliance with Code Section 162(m) for the tax deductibility of an Award that is intended to be exempt from Code Section 162(m), and (b) not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan, the provisions of the Company's Executive Incentive Plan shall apply to Awards under this Plan.
Company Intent
11.9.  . The plan shall be unfunded. Bookkeeping accounts may be established with respect to Participants who are granted Awards under the Plan, but any such accounts will be used merely as a bookkeeping convenience. The Company shall not be required to segregate any assets which may at any time be represented by Awards.
Unfunded Plan
11.10.  . Unless the Committee expressly determines otherwise, Awards are intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A as stock rights or short-term deferrals and, accordingly, the terms of any Awards shall be construed and administered to preserve such exemption (including with respect to the time of payment following a lapse of restrictions in accordance with Section 11.5). To the extent that Section 409A applies to a particular Award granted under the Plan (notwithstanding the preceding sentence), then the terms of the Award shall be construed and administered to permit the Award to comply with Section 409A, including, if necessary, by delaying the payment of any Award payable upon separation from service to a Participant who is a "specified employee" (as defined in Code Section 409A and determined consistently for all ConAgra Foods arrangements that are subject to Code Section 409A), for a period of six months and one day after such Participant's separation from service (as defined in Code Section 409A, but treating the Company as constituting a single service recipient unless the Committee timely provides otherwise). In the event anyone is subject to income inclusion, additional interest or taxes, or any other adverse consequences under Code Section 409A ("Non-compliance"), then neither the Company, the Committee, the Board nor its or their employees, designees, agents or contractors shall be liable to any Participant or other persons in connection with any Non-compliance, except to the extent the Non-compliance was the direct result of any Company action or failure to act that was undertaken in bad faith.
Code Section 409A
11.11.  . The granting of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or securities exchanges as may be required. Each Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee determines, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of shares of Stock issuable pursuant to the Plan is required by any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the grant of an Award or the issuance of Stock, no Awards shall be granted or payment made or shares of Stock issued, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been effected or obtained free of any conditions as acceptable to the Committee.
Requirements of Law
11.12.  . The Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on July 16, 2009 and shall be effective upon its approval by the Company's stockholders at the 2009 annual stockholders' meeting.
Effective Date
11.13.  . Upon stockholder approval of the Plan pursuant to Section 11.12, no new awards will be granted under the 2006 Plan.
2006 Plan
11.14.  . The Plan, and all Agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law

Exhibit 10.2
1.  . The principal purposes of the ConAgra Foods Executive Incentive Plan (the "Plan") are to provide incentives to participating eligible officers of ConAgra Foods, Inc. and its Subsidiaries ("ConAgra Foods") who have significant responsibility for the success and growth of ConAgra Foods, to assist ConAgra Foods in attracting, motivating and retaining such officers on a competitive basis and to preserve the tax deductibility of incentive awards paid to eligible officers under Section 162(m) of the Code (as defined below).
Purpose
2.  .
Definitions
a.  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now in effect or as hereafter amended from time to time. (All citations to Code Sections are to such Sections as they are currently designated and any reference to such Sections shall include the provisions thereof as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered as well as any successor provisions and any applicable regulations.)
b. "Committee" means the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors, or its successor, or such other committee of the Board of Directors to which the Board of Directors delegates power to act under or pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. Each member of the Committee shall qualify as (i) an "outside director" for purposes of Code Section 162(m), (ii) a "non-employee director" for purposes of Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (iii) "independent" for purposes of any rules and regulations of the stock exchange or other recognized market or quotation system on which the Common Stock of ConAgra Foods is principally traded or quoted at the relevant time, except that the Board of Directors may determine to have these qualification requirements satisfied by a subcommittee of the Committee (and, in this case, any reference to "Committee" in the Plan shall be deemed to be a reference to this subcommittee to the extent necessary to satisfy these requirements).
c. "ConAgra Foods" means ConAgra Foods, Inc., a Delaware corporation and its successor and assigns, and each of its Subsidiaries.
d. "Eligible Officer" means an employee of ConAgra Foods who is considered an executive officer of ConAgra Foods within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and senior officers, and other employees of ConAgra Foods performing similar duties for ConAgra Foods who are selected by the Committee for participation in the Plan.
e. "Fair Market Value" means, on any date, the closing price of the common stock of ConAgra Foods, Inc. as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized market or quotation system on which the trading prices of the common stock are traded or quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no stock transactions reported on such exchange (or such other system) on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which stock transactions were so reported.
f. "Market Capitalization" means the product of the Fair Market Value per share of the common stock of ConAgra Foods, Inc., multiplied by the total number of shares outstanding.
g. "Participant" means an Eligible Officer participating in the Plan for a performance period as provided in Sections 5 or 6.
h. "Plan" means this ConAgra Foods Executive Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, and as further amended from time to time.
i. "Qualified Performance-Based Award" means an award (or a specified portion of an award) to an Eligible Officer that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m).
j. "Subsidiary" means any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity in which ConAgra Foods, Inc. owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the voting power or of the capital interest or profits interest (within the meaning of Code Section 414(c)) of such entity.
3.  . The Committee shall have full power and authority to administer and interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules, regulations and guidelines for the administration of the Plan and for the conduct of its business as the Committee deems necessary or advisable. The Committee's interpretations of the Plan, and all actions taken and determinations made by the Committee pursuant to the powers vested in it hereunder, shall be conclusive and binding on all parties concerned, including ConAgra Foods, its stockholders and any person receiving an award under the Plan. The Committee may delegate its responsibilities under the Plan to such individuals, including members of management, as the Committee may appoint, provided that no delegation shall be made with respect to an opportunity to receive either a Qualified Performance-Based Award to the extent it would cause such award to fail to qualify under Code Section 162(m), or any award to the extent it would cause such award to fail to meet any other requirements referenced in the definition of "Committee" that are applicable to the award. No member or former member of the Committee or the Board shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any award granted under it.
Administration of the Plan
4.  . All Eligible Officers are eligible to participate in the Plan for any performance period. For each performance period, the Committee, in its discretion, shall select the Eligible Officers who shall participate in the Plan. No Eligible Officer is guaranteed to be eligible to participate for any performance period and an Eligible Officer who is selected by the Committee for participation in one performance period may be excluded from participation in any subsequent performance period.
Eligibility
5.  .
Awards
a.  Establishment of Awards.  For each award under the Plan, the Committee shall specify (i) incentive award performance goals for Participants, which may vary by Participant or by groups of Participants, and which shall be used to determine the compensation payable under the award; (ii) the performance period over which performance shall be determined in connection with the performance goals; and (iii) the maximum compensation that may be paid in connection with the award upon the achievement of a specified performance goal during the performance period. Subject to the maximum specified, the Committee may provide for a threshold level of performance below which no amount of compensation will be paid, and it may provide for the payment of differing amounts of compensation for different levels of performance. The performance period for an award may be a fiscal year, or it may be a period that is shorter or longer than a fiscal year. In the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award, the Committee shall establish in writing the terms described in this paragraph not later than required by Code Section 162(m).
b.  
Performance Goals.
i.  The performance goals may be described in terms of objectives that are company-wide and/or related to a Subsidiary, reporting segment or business unit of ConAgra Foods, Inc., and shall consist of one or more or any combination of the following: cash flow, free cash flow, operating cash flow, earnings, market share, economic value added, achievement of annual operating budgets, profits, profit contribution margins, profits before taxes, profits after taxes, operating profit, return on assets, return on investment, return on equity, return on invested capital, gross sales, net sales, sales volume, stock price, total stockholder return, dividend ratio, price-to-earnings ratio, expense targets, operating efficiency, customer satisfaction metrics, working capital targets, the achievement of certain target levels of innovation and/or development of products, goals related to acquisitions or divestitures, formation or dissolution of joint ventures, corporate bond rating by credit agencies, debt to equity or leverage ratios, or financial performance goals determined by the Committee that are sufficiently similar to the foregoing as to be permissible under Code Section 162(m).
ii.  If more than one individual performance objective is specified by the Committee in defining a performance goal, the Committee shall also specify, in writing, whether one, all or some other number of such objectives must be attained in order for the performance goal to be met. With respect to any award that is not intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award, the Committee may use performance goals that are different than those set forth above.
iii.  Each performance goal may be based upon growth, may be expressed on an absolute and/or relative basis, may be based on or otherwise employ comparisons based on the past performance of ConAgra Foods and/or the past or current performance of other companies, and in the case of earnings-based measures, may use or employ comparisons relating to capital, stockholders' equity and/or shares outstanding, investments or assets or net assets. The specific performance goal for each Participant shall be established in writing by the Committee within ninety days after the commencement of a performance period (or within such other time period as may be required by Code Section 162(m)) to which the performance goal relates. The performance goal shall be established in such a manner that a third party having knowledge of the relevant facts could determine whether the performance goal has been met.
c.   Awards shall be payable following the completion of each performance period (unless deferred consistent with Code Section 409A), and, for Qualified Performance-Based Awards, only after certification in writing by the Committee that the specified performance goals established under the Plan were achieved (and with any earnings on a deferred award limited as required to comply with Code Section 162(m)). Unless the Committee specifies otherwise in the terms of an award, payment shall be made on or before the later of (a) the fifteenth day of the third month that begins after the month containing the end of the applicable fiscal year (with the applicable fiscal year being the fiscal year containing the end of the performance period for which performance is certified), or (b) the fifteenth day of the third month that begins after the end of the Participant's tax year that contains the end of the performance period for which performance is certified. Awards may be paid in cash or securities. If an award is paid in securities, such payment shall be accomplished by a grant under a ConAgra Foods plan that expressly provides for making grants of securities, such as the ConAgra Foods 2009 Stock Plan. Grants or awards of stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be based on a stock price that is not less than the Fair Market Value on the date of grant. Notwithstanding the attainment of the specified performance goal, the Committee has the discretion, for each Participant, to reduce some or all of an award that would otherwise be paid.
Payment of Awards.
d.   In no event may a Participant receive an aggregate cash compensation award under the Plan in any fiscal year of more than 1% of ConAgra Foods' Market Capitalization as of the first day of the performance period (except that in the case of an amount paid based on a performance period other than a 12-month fiscal year, the maximum shall be an amount that bears the same ratio to 1% of ConAgra Foods' Market Capitalization, as of the first day of the performance period, as the length of the performance period bears to a 12-month fiscal year).
Maximum Awards.
e.   In determining whether any performance goal has been satisfied, the Committee may exclude the effect of (i) any or all extraordinary items (as determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), and (ii) any other unusual or nonrecurring items or events, including but not limited to, (a) charges, costs or benefits or gains associated with: restructurings of ConAgra Foods; litigation or claim adjudication, judgments or settlements; mergers, acquisitions, or divestitures; and material changes in business, operations, corporate or capital structure; (b) foreign exchange or hedge-related gains and losses; (c) asset write-downs; (d) discontinued operations; and (e) the cumulative effects of accounting changes. In the case of Qualified Performance-Based Awards, the exclusions and adjustments allowed by this Section may only apply to the extent the Committee specifies in writing (not later than the time performance goals are required to be established) which exclusions and adjustments the Committee will apply to determine whether a performance goal has been satisfied, as well as an objective manner for applying them, or to the extent that the Committee otherwise determines that they may apply without adversely affecting the award's status as a Qualified Performance-Based Award. To the extent that a performance goal is based on an increase in the stock price of ConAgra Food's common stock, then in the event of any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of ConAgra Foods, any merger, consolidation, spin-off, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets (other than a normal cash dividend), issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities or any other corporate transaction having an effect similar to any of the foregoing, the Committee shall make or provide for such adjustments in such performance goals as the Committee in its sole discretion may in good faith determine to be equitably required in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants. In the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award, this adjustment shall apply only to the extent the Committee determines it will not adversely affect the award's status as a Qualified Performance-Based Award.
Adjustments.
6.  . The Committee may establish rules and procedures for cases where employment or eligibility begins after the start of a performance period, or ends before payment of an award, to the extent they are consistent with the following:
Special Rules
a.   In the case of an Eligible Officer who is hired by ConAgra Foods after the beginning of a performance period, the Committee may in its discretion designate such newly hired Eligible Officer as a Participant for that performance period, provided that the newly hired Participant may only be granted a Qualified Performance-Based Award to the extent the Participant's period of service during the performance period would not cause the performance goal for such award to be established later than permitted under Code Section 162(m).
Newly Hired Officer.
b.   An Eligible Officer who is promoted, transferred or otherwise changes positions and who becomes a Participant during the performance period may, at the discretion of the Committee and under such rules as the Committee may from time to time prescribe, be eligible for an award provided that a promotion or job change cannot (i) increase the amount payable under a Qualified Performance-Based Award as a result of satisfying the performance goal that is intended to satisfy Code Section 162(m), or (ii) cause the performance goal for a Qualified Performance-Based Award to be established later than permitted under Code Section 162(m).
Newly Eligible Officer.
c.   If an Eligible Officer terminates employment with the Company prior to the end of a performance period, the terms of the award or the rules established by the Committee shall apply to determine whether such award is forfeited or paid in whole or in part; provided, however, no Qualified Performance-Based Award shall be paid in whole or in part prior to or without regard to certification of attainment of the performance goal.
Termination of Employment.
7. . ConAgra Foods shall have the right to deduct from the payment of all awards hereunder any federal, state, local or foreign taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such awards. Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Eligible Officer any right to be retained in the employ of ConAgra Foods or in any specific position with ConAgra Foods. The costs and expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by ConAgra Foods and shall not be charged to any award or to any Participant receiving an award. Neither an award nor any other right or benefit under this Plan shall be subject to alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber or charge the same shall be void and shall not be recognized or given effect by ConAgra Foods. The Plan shall be construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Miscellaneous Provisions
8. . The Plan originally became effective on September 23, 2004, upon approval of the ConAgra Foods stockholders. The Plan as amended and restated herein is hereby adopted and approved by the Board of Directors, subject to, and to be effective upon, approval by ConAgra Foods' stockholders at the 2009 annual meeting of ConAgra Foods' stockholders. If such stockholder approval is not obtained, the Plan shall terminate at such time and be of no further effect.
Effective Date, Amendments and Termination
The Committee may at any time terminate or from time to time amend the Plan in whole or in part, but no such action shall adversely affect any rights or obligations with respect to any awards theretofore made under the Plan, except with the consent of the Eligible Officer granted the award, and except to the minimum extent necessary to comply with applicable law. No such amendment or modification, however, may be effective without approval of the stockholders of ConAgra Foods if such approval is necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m), including (i) any change to the requirement as to eligibility for participation in the Plan, (ii) any change to the performance goals permissible under the Plan for payment of awards or (iii) any increase to the maximum amount that may be paid to a Participant for any period under Section 5(d). The Plan shall continue in effect until terminated by the Committee.
9.  . Unless the Committee expressly determines otherwise, awards are intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A as short-term deferrals and, accordingly, the terms of any awards shall be construed and administered to preserve such exemption. To the extent the Committee determines that Code Section 409A applies to a particular award granted under the Plan, then the terms of the award shall be construed and administered to permit the award to comply with Code Section 409A, including, if necessary, by delaying the payment of any award payable upon separation from service to a Participant who is a "specified employee" (as defined in Code Section 409A and determined consistently for all ConAgra Foods arrangements that are subject to Code Section 409A), for a period of six months and one day after such Participant's separation from service (as defined in Code Section 409A, but treating ConAgra Foods as constituting a single service recipient unless the Committee timely provides otherwise). In the event anyone is subject to income inclusion, additional interest or taxes, or any other adverse consequences under Code Section 409A ("Non-compliance"), then neither ConAgra Foods, the Committee, the Board of Directors nor its or their employees, designees, agents or contractors shall be liable to any Participant or other persons in connection with any Non-compliance, except to the extent the Non-compliance was the direct result of any ConAgra Foods action or failure to act that was undertaken in bad faith.
Code Section 409A


