FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20090625074342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
          Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On June 25, 2009, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on fourth quarter fiscal 2009 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
          The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted operating profit for the Commercial Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such supplemental financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements. Management believes the presentation of supplemental financial information exclusive of items impacting comparability is relevant to an investor and facilitates investor understanding of continuing operations and segment performance and trends.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
          Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued June 25, 2009
          Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued June 25, 2009
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Fourth Quarter Highlights
:
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
OMAHA, Neb., June 25, 2009  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2009 fourth quarter ended May 31, 2009. Overall sales grew 8%. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.39 for the quarter, an increase of 129% from prior-year levels of $0.17. Excluding $0.02 per diluted share of net expense in the current quarter and $0.01 of net expense in the year-ago period from items impacting comparability, diluted EPS from continuing operations in the current quarter was $0.41, an increase of 128% from $0.18 earned in the same period a year ago. Items impacting comparability are summarized toward the end of this release. The company estimates that the extra week this quarter provided approximately $0.03 of EPS, which enabled additional marketing and innovation investments; the company anticipated the benefit of an extra week as it developed its plans for increased marketing investment for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "We posted a very good fourth quarter and delivered full-year EPS in line with our recent guidance. Consumer Foods made significant progress in the second half of the year, and I am pleased with the momentum that is building. Commercial Foods continues to deliver good results and to navigate the challenges of its markets very well. The overall health of our business is very good."
He continued, "Given our strengthening execution, moderating inflation, and the benefit of innovation, we are in a good position to deliver healthy EPS growth in fiscal 2010 while increasing investment in our brands. Our estimate of fiscal 2010 diluted EPS from continuing operations is $1.63-$1.66 per share, excluding items impacting comparability. We will provide investors with the customary updates on our progress and expectations throughout the fiscal year."
Subsequent to quarter-end, there was a tragic accident at the company's Garner, N.C., manufacturing plant. Since the event, the company has relied on existing inventories of to service customer needs, although shipments have been at reduced levels. The company is in the process of reestablishing production capacity for the brand. Although service disruptions are likely during the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the company expects the business to achieve acceptable service levels during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and expects the accident to have no material impact on long-term brand dynamics.
Slim Jim
Slim Jim
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
The company maintains comprehensive property and general liability insurance policies with very significant loss limits that it believes will provide substantial and broad coverage for the currently foreseeable losses arising from this event. The company anticipates that it will incur modest costs related to deductibles and co-payment obligations under available insurance policies, as well as other one-time costs that are not currently expected to be material. The company currently plans to treat these amounts, as well as any net gain or loss from insured losses, asset write offs, and insurance recoveries under these policies, as items impacting comparability in earnings releases for fiscal 2010, which began on June 1, 2009.
The company also maintains business interruption insurance with significant limits that it anticipates will respond to this situation. For the purposes of providing annual earnings estimates for fiscal 2010, the company currently expects amounts received from business interruption insurance to substantially compensate for any foregone profits from the disruption, and thus will not treat any business interruption insurance proceeds as items impacting comparability.
Slim Jim
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,138 million and operating profit of $271 million in the fiscal 2009 fourth quarter, and $1,878 million of sales and $177 million of operating profit in the year-ago period.
Fourth-quarter fiscal 2009 Consumer Foods sales growth was 14%, reflecting 8% contribution from pricing and mix, 7% unit growth, and -1% impact from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates. The company estimates that an extra week this quarter added approximately 7 percentage points to sales and unit volume growth. Due to a combination of on-trend new products, significantly improved marketing, and a strong value-orientation in the company's branded portfolio, many brands posted strong sales growth, even without the benefit of an extra week in the current quarter.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Fourth-quarter fiscal 2009 Consumer Foods operating profit increased 53% to $271 million over the prior-year amount of $177 million. Excluding $17 million of net expense in prior-year amounts from items impacting comparability, current quarter comparable operating profit increased 40%. While still significant, input cost inflation was much less severe than in recent quarters. Inflation was more than offset by strong supply chain savings as well as successful selling, general, and administrative expense (SG&A) focus, resulting in dollar profit and margin percentage improvement. Marketing expense increased by approximately $16 million, supported by the benefit of the extra week. Changes in foreign exchange rates negatively impacted profitability by approximately $11 million.
The company is confident that its innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives, combined with more manageable input cost inflation, will result in strong year-over-year operating profit growth and operating margin expansion for this segment in fiscal 2010.
For the fiscal fourth quarter, sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,160 million, down 2% from year-ago amounts; the decline reflects lower flour prices due to lower underlying wheat costs at ConAgra Mills. Despite challenging foodservice industry conditions, Lamb Weston specialty potato operations posted good sales results due to favorable mix as well as pricing actions that followed raw product cost increases. Acquisitions also contributed to Lamb Weston's sales growth. The company estimates that the extra week added approximately 7 percentage points of growth to the overall segment's sales.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Segment operating profit was $155 million for the quarter, 35% above year-ago amounts, reflecting strong sales, efficiencies, and mix at Lamb Weston, as well as better flour milling margins due to plant efficiencies, mix, and effective risk management at ConAgra Mills. Profits for Gilroy Foods and Flavors were below year-ago amounts given the impact of the weak economy on some foodservice-related customers. The extra week also benefited current quarter profit growth for the overall segment.
The company expects this segment's operating profits in fiscal 2010 to be roughly in line with those of fiscal 2009, largely reflecting operating efficiencies, as well as challenges for some restaurant and industrial customers throughout fiscal 2010, along with a fiscal 2010 forecast for less favorable market conditions for flour milling.
-
Hedging Activities
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company uses hedging activities to manage the risk in its plans for the cost of various commodity inputs and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange. To improve the transparency of segment operating results, the company began utilizing a new methodology for presenting derivative gains and losses in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. This methodology temporarily classifies mark-to-market gains and losses as unallocated Corporate expense. The company later transfers the gains or losses to segment operating profit when the underlying item being hedged is recognized in cost of goods sold for the applicable operating segment (with a corresponding offset in the unallocated Corporate results). Prior-year amounts utilized a different methodology, which immediately classified the hedge gain or loss in the segment operating results regardless of when the underlying item was expensed. Prior-year fourth-quarter results include $41 million of net derivative gains ($25 million in Consumer Foods and $16 million in Commercial Foods other than the milling operations). This change in methodology was discussed in detail in the company's first-quarter fiscal 2009 earnings release dated Sept. 18, 2008. An example of the new methodology is presented in the written Q&A document accompanying that release.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
In the fiscal 2009 fourth quarter, $31 million of previously reported mark-to-market losses held as unallocated Corporate expense was reclassified as operating segment expense: $18 million to the Consumer Foods segment and $13 million to the Commercial Foods segment. Separately, unallocated Corporate expense decreased by $9 million due to additional mark-to-market gains during the quarter, temporarily classified as part of unallocated Corporate results until reclassification to operating segments at a later date. This quarter's $40 million benefit to unallocated Corporate expense ($31 million of benefit from reclassifying mark-to-market losses to other segments and $9 million of additional mark-to-market gains remaining as unallocated Corporate) is listed as an item impacting comparability.
Other Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
Capital Items
Discontinued Operations
During the quarter, the company reclassified the results of some small Consumer Foods foodservice brands as discontinued operations given the pending sale of the operations. Historical results now reflect this minor change.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Outlook
The company expects fiscal 2010 diluted EPS from continuing operations to be $1.63-$1.66, excluding items impacting comparability. In determining this range, the company anticipates that business interruption insurance proceeds will substantially compensate for foregone profits during the period of disruption following the recent Garner, N.C., plant accident. The company will provide customary updates to its fiscal 2010 outlook throughout the year.
Slim Jim
Major Items Affecting Fourth-quarter Fiscal 2009 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.39 diluted EPS* from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
Included in the $0.17 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT to discuss these results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-205-6439 and 1-913-312-1494, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 6243915. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at . To view recent company news, please visit .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
http://media.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying potato, other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
www.conagrafoods.com
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
Regulation G Disclosure
Continuing Operations
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 14
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 15
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 16
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions)

Exhibit 99.2
Q4 FY09 Question & Answer June 25, 2009
- Alexia - - Andy Capp's - - Banquet - - Blue Bonnet - - Chef Boyardee - - Crunch n Munch - - DAVID - - Healthy Choice - - Hebrew National - - Hunt's - - Kid Cuisine - - Libby's - - Marie Callender's - - Orville Redenbacher's - - PAM - - Parkay - - Peter Pan - - Reddi-wip - - Ro*Tel - - Rosarita - - Slim Jim - - Snack Pack
 
Net Sales
Profit Contribution Margin
(Net sales less cost of goods sold and advertising and promotion expense)
 
 
 
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (In millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Income Statement for Fiscal 2009 and 2008 (In millions)
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.


