FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20091221081606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On December 21, 2009, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on the second quarter fiscal 2010 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
     The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted unallocated corporate expense and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess our operating performance. These measures are reconciled in the release to the measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, our diluted earnings per share and operating performance measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
          Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued December 21, 2009
          Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Second Quarter Highlights:
OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 21, 2009  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2010 second quarter ended Nov. 29, 2009. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.55 compared with $0.38 a year ago. Current quarter results include $0.03 per diluted share of net benefit, and prior year amounts included $0.05 of net expense, from items impacting comparability. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was up 45% as reported and 21% on a comparable basis.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "Our strong performance this quarter reflects continued momentum in the Consumer Foods segment and gives us heightened confidence in our fiscal 2010 EPS outlook. Success with innovation and marketing drove significantly improved market shares and top-line progress in the Consumer Foods segment for the quarter, while a more favorable input cost environment and strong cost savings substantially contributed to profit growth. We are very pleased with our success this year and with the increased EPS outlook, and expect to continue demonstrating the earnings power of our company with consistent and sustainable growth."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,078 million and operating profit of $330 million for the quarter. Top-line progress was broad-based. Sales increased 3% as reported, which includes an approximate 1% negative impact from lower sales of products given that brand's ongoing recovery. SKU rationalization negatively impacted sales growth by approximately 1%.
Slim Jim
Unit volumes increased 2% as reported, which includes an approximate 1% negative impact from lower sales of products and 1% negative impact from SKU rationalization efforts.
Slim Jim
Operating profit of $330 million was 31% ahead of last year's $251 million; this significant growth occurred even with $24 million of increased marketing investment. The year-over-year profit improvement was due to a more favorable input cost environment, strong productivity savings, and good sales results. The company expects continued year-over-year operating profit growth for this
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
segment for the rest of the fiscal year. The company estimates that Consumer Foods profitability was negatively impacted by approximately $7 million due to lower volumes and higher production costs in the fiscal second quarter.
Slim Jim
Slim Jim
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,095 million, 11% below last year's $1,235 million; approximately $110 million of the sales decline was due to lower flour milling sales, which reflect the pass-through impact of lower underlying wheat costs. Segment operating profit was $160 million, 1% above last year's $158 million. Lamb Weston profits improved, reflecting the positive impacts of higher prices necessitated by increased input costs, as well as plant efficiencies and a refinement to its product cost allocation process; these were partially offset by the negative impact on sales and volume of difficult food service industry conditions. Flour milling profitability increased due to mill efficiencies and favorable wheat market conditions. Profits for the rest of the segment were below year-ago amounts, reflecting continued difficult market conditions for key vegetable items.
Although the segment posted profit growth for the first half of the fiscal year largely due to higher-than-planned flour milling profits, on a full-year basis the company continues to expect the Commercial Foods segment to deliver operating profits in line with year-ago amounts due, in part, to expectations for continued softness in the food service industry.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded $6 million of net hedging benefit as unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, versus $48 million of net hedging loss as unallocated Corporate expense in the year-ago period. The company identifies both of these amounts as items impacting comparability. Those amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity being hedged is recognized in segment cost of goods sold.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Other Items
Capital Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Raised EPS Outlook
The company now expects fiscal 2010 full-year diluted EPS from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability, to approach $1.73, reflecting the strong performance in the first half of the fiscal year. In a change from prior guidance, the company now expects the business interruption insurance recovery, estimated in the range of $0.05 per diluted share, to be recognized in fiscal 2011 instead of fiscal 2010.
Slim Jim
Major Items Impacting Second-quarter Fiscal 2010 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.55 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Included in the $0.38 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EST today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-806-6215 and 1-913-312-6677, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EST today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 9314857. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at . To view recent company news, please visit .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
http://media.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying potato, other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things, availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
Regulation G Disclosure
Continuing Operations
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
*Items impacting comparability are each rounded to the nearest penny
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions)

Exhibit 99.2
Q2 FY10 Question & Answer December 21, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.


