FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20101221074112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
          Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On December 21, 2010, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document ("Q&A") on its website containing information on the Company's second quarter fiscal 2011 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
          The press release and Q&A include the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense, adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and net debt. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. These measures are reconciled in the press release and Q&A to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
This report, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 furnished hereunder, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Readers of this report should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect our actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements, including those set forth in this report. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of our product pricing, including any price increases and promotions; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; our ability to execute our operating plans; the success of our innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of our product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting our businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report which speak only as of the date of this report.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued December 21, 2010
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     
Highlights:
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 21, 2010  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2011 second quarter ended November 28, 2010. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.45 as reported and on a comparable basis. For the same period a year ago, diluted EPS from continuing operations as reported was $0.53, which included $0.02 of net benefit from items impacting comparability. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "Several challenges impacted our results. Difficult market conditions, weaker-than-planned consumer response to promotions, and higher-than-planned inflation weighed on Consumer Foods' profits despite progress in overall unit market shares and volume. Profitability of our Commercial Foods segment was below expectations primarily due to selling and processing last year's high-cost, unusually low-quality potato crop. In aggregate, it was a challenging quarter."
He continued, "Several factors are expected to improve year-over-year operating results in the second half of the fiscal year, despite the challenging environment. Very importantly, we are increasing net pricing on a number of our products given the ongoing acceleration of cost inflation. Some price increases have recently been implemented, and more are under way. We are confident that the net effect of these pricing increases will be positive, despite some potential modest volume decline. Our products will continue to deliver outstanding value to consumers even after these pricing actions. Price increases, along with strong cost savings, lower SG&A, accelerating contribution from innovation and recently acquired businesses, and a good-quality potato crop currently being processed are expected to drive improved year-over-year earnings for the rest of the fiscal year. Although the challenging environment is expected to cause this fiscal year's anticipated EPS growth to be comparatively modest, the operating foundation of the company continues to be strong, and we are confident in our long-term EPS growth potential."
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,104 million and operating profit of $284 million for the second quarter. Sales increased 1% as reported, reflecting a 1% organic volume increase, 3% decline in overall price/mix, and 3% benefit from acquisitions (net of divestitures). The company's all-outlet unit market share increased for the quarter, while dollar share was largely unchanged in aggregate.
Sales results reflect difficult market conditions and a very competitive environment, which necessitated increased promotional spending. Consumer response to promotions was weaker-than-planned given the challenging economic conditions. The company noted strong sales results for the segment's frozen business and international markets. Sales for recently acquired and recently introduced products performed well.
Operating profit of $284 million was 14% below $330 million in the year-ago period, as reported. Adjusting for approximately $5 million of restructuring charges in current-quarter results, the comparable year-over-year decline was 13%. The lower profitability reflects the impact of unfavorable price/mix, largely due to promotional spending, as well as inflation that outpaced cost savings. Cost savings during the quarter were in line with expectations, at approximately $80 million, and the company expects to deliver in excess of $275 million of cost savings this fiscal year, with strong savings in the second half.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
The company expects the segment's year-over-year profit performance to improve in the second half of the fiscal year given the price increases under way, strong cost savings, lower SG&A, and accelerating contribution from innovation and recently acquired businesses.
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,057 million, 3% above $1,022 million in the year-ago period. The sales increase reflects improved volumes for Lamb Weston specialty potato products, as well as higher selling prices for the flour milling operations necessitated by higher wheat input costs.
Segment operating profit was $126 million, 16% below $151 million in the year-ago period. The operating profit decline reflects weaker margins at Lamb Weston, primarily due to selling and processing last year's high-cost, unusually poor-quality potato crop. The company also incurred start up costs at the new Delhi, La., sweet potato plant, which began operations during the quarter. The company finished its inventory of the old potato crop, and began processing this year's new, good-quality potato crop this quarter; fiscal second-half profits for the Lamb Weston specialty potato operations are on track for year-over-year improvement. Although still strong, flour milling profits were down from last year's high levels, as expected. Profits for the seasonings, blends, and flavors operations were in line with year-ago amounts, as planned.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded $9 million of net hedging benefit within unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, and $6 million of net hedging benefit within unallocated Corporate expense in the year-ago period. The company identifies both of these amounts as items impacting comparability. Those amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity or foreign currency being hedged is expensed in segment cost of goods sold.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Other Items
Capital Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Outlook for Fiscal 2011
The company expects fiscal 2011 full-year diluted EPS, adjusted for items impacting comparability, to show a low-single-digit rate of growth over the comparable $1.74 earned in fiscal 2010. This outlook reflects weaker-than-planned first-half EPS and the negative earnings impact related to the early payment of notes receivable. The company's expectations for improved operating results in the second half of the fiscal year are based on pricing actions under way, strong cost savings, lower SG&A, accelerating contribution from innovation and recently acquired businesses, as well as the benefit of a good-quality potato crop already being processed at Lamb Weston. The company expects year-over-year EPS improvement in the fiscal 2011 third and fourth quarters, with EPS amounts being higher in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter largely due to the timing of price increases. The company expects operating cash flow to be approximately $1.2 billion for the fiscal year.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
Major Items Impacting Second-quarter Fiscal 2011 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.45 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Included in the $0.53 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EST today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-800-967-7141 and 1-719-457-2707, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EST today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 8587409. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's website.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at To view recent company news, please visit
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
http://media.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing, including any price increases and promotions; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date of this release.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 14
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 15
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 16
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 17

Exhibit 99.2
Q2 FY11 Question & Answer Dec. 21, 2010
 
Gross margin = segment gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $751/$3,161 = 24%
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $410/$3,161 = 13%
 
 
 
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing, including any price increases and promotions; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date of this release.


