FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20100624074415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On June 24, 2010, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document ("Q&A") on its website containing information on the Company's fourth quarter fiscal 2010 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
          The press release and Q&A include the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted sales for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted diluted earnings per share and net debt. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. These measures are reconciled in the press release and Q&A to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
          Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued June 24, 2010
          Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued June 24, 2010
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
          
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Fourth Quarter Highlights (vs. year-ago amounts)
Note: Year-ago results include an extra week.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
OMAHA, Neb., June 24, 2010  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2010 fourth quarter ended May 30, 2010. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.27 compared with $0.38 a year ago. After adjusting for net $0.12 in the current quarter and net $0.03 in the year-ago period from items impacting comparability, current-quarter diluted EPS was $0.39, down from $0.41 for the same period a year ago. The decline was expected, principally due to the extra week in the year-ago period and challenges for the Lamb Weston operations. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "We are pleased with our fiscal year, posting comparable diluted EPS of $1.74 and generating very strong operating cash flow of $1.4 billion. We grew year-over-year unit and dollar market share in our Consumer Foods segment, reflecting successful sales, innovation, and marketing initiatives. This top-line progress, coupled with cost savings initiatives, allowed us to generate strong earnings, invest for the future, and more than offset challenges affecting our Commercial Foods segment. We are confident that fiscal 2011 will continue to demonstrate our company's earnings power and ability to generate strong cash flows."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,029 million and operating profit of $226 million for the quarter. Sales declined 4% as reported but increased 3% on a comparable 13-week basis. Unit volumes increased 3% on a comparable 13-week basis. Foreign exchange favorably impacted sales growth by 1%.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
Operating profit of $226 million was 15% below year-ago amounts as reported. Current-quarter amounts include $69 million of net expense from items impacting comparability; excluding those amounts, current-quarter operating profit was $295 million, up 10% from year-ago amounts. The comparable year-over-year profit improvement primarily reflects strong cost savings efficiencies that more than offset modest input cost inflation. See page 11 for a Regulation G reconciliation of Consumer Foods segment sales and operating profit amounts, which detail the items impacting comparability for those measurements.
Given progress with initiatives involving operating efficiencies, innovation, marketing, and customer service, the company is confident in the strength of the foundation of this segment as it plans for profitable future growth.
Fiscal fourth quarter sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,033 million, 6% below last year's $1,103 million, reflecting the impact of an extra week last year as well as lower flour milling sales in the current quarter due to the pass-through impact of lower underlying wheat costs. Segment operating profit was $111 million, 26% below last year's $151 million. The profit decline reflects the extra week last year and unfavorable product costs at Lamb Weston resulting from a poor-quality potato crop. Lamb Weston's weaker profit performance also reflects the impact of a cost allocation process change as previously communicated, which benefited earlier fiscal quarters this year but which negatively impacted the current quarter. Although below last year's outstanding results, flour milling profits remained very strong from a tight focus on product mix, operating efficiencies, and capitalizing on market opportunities.
As discussed in the company's press release dated June 7, 2010, the company has entered into an agreement to divest its Gilroy Foods & Flavors dehydrated vegetable operations. The results of those operations have been reclassified from the Commercial Foods segment to discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Hedging Activities 
Beginning in fiscal 2009, the company began to reflect realized and unrealized gains and losses from derivatives (except for those related to the milling operations) used to hedge anticipated commodity consumption in earnings immediately within general corporate expenses. The gains and losses are reclassified from Corporate expense to segment operating results in the period in which the underlying item being economically hedged is recognized in cost of goods sold.
The company recorded an immaterial net hedging benefit in unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, and $38 million of net hedging benefit in unallocated Corporate expense in the year-ago period. The company identifies the $38 million in prior-year amounts as an item impacting comparability. Hedge amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity being hedged is recognized in segment cost of goods sold.
Other Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Discontinued Operations
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations was a loss of $0.07 for the quarter. Included in discontinued operations for the quarter are results for the dehydrated vegetable operations, reclassified from the Commercial Foods segment due to their pending sale.
Capital Items
During the quarter, the company's transaction activities included:
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Fiscal 2011
Consistent with its long-term EPS goals, the company expects fiscal 2011 diluted EPS, adjusted for items impacting comparability, to reflect 8-10% growth from its fiscal 2010 diluted comparable EPS of $1.74. The company expects the EPS growth to be concentrated in the second half of the fiscal year. This timing largely reflects:
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
The company also expects cash flow from operations to be approximately $1.2 billion in fiscal 2011.
See page 11 for a Regulation G reconciliation of full year diluted EPS from continuing operations.
Comparable EPS Amounts
Diluted EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $0.27. The comparable EPS amount of $0.39 is determined by adjusting the $0.27 by the following items (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Diluted EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 was $0.38*. The comparable EPS amount of $0.41 is determined by adjusting the $0.38 by the following items (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
*
The company estimates a benefit of approximately $0.03 per diluted share due to the extra week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, which enabled additional marketing and innovation investments.
See Page 11 for a Regulation G reconciliation of diluted EPS from continuing operations.
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-668-1640 and 1-913-312-0971, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 4764133. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at To view recent company news, please visit
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
http://media.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 96 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the ability to successfully complete the sale of the Gilroy Foods & Flavors dehydrated and vegetable products business and the acquisition of American Pie, LLC; an increase or decrease in the expected impairment charge required in connection with the sale of the Gilroy Foods & Flavors dehydrated and vegetable products business; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
Our calculation of Consumer Foods fourth quarter sales, adjusted for the impact of the extra week in the prior year's fourth quarter, estimates a 7% benefit from the extra week of sales in the year-ago period.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 15
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 16
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 17
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 18
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions)

Exhibit 99.2
Q4 FY10 Question & Answer June 24, 2010
Note: Year-ago results include the benefit of an extra week.
 
 
 
 
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (In millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Income Statement for Fiscal 2010 and 2009 (In millions)
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the ability to successfully complete the sale of the Gilroy Foods & Flavors dehydrated and vegetable products business and the acquisition of American Pie, LLC; an increase or decrease in the expected impairment charge required in connection with the sale of the Gilroy Foods & Flavors dehydrated and vegetable products business; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.


