FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20101209083604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 9, 2010, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information on the Companys second quarter fiscal 2011 financial results. The press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1. The press release includes the non-GAAP financial measure of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Companys financial statements and believes this non-GAAP measure provides useful supplemental information to assess the Companys operating performance and financial position. Diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability is reconciled in the press release to the most directly comparable measure as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Companys diluted earnings per share and financial measures as calculat ed in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued December 9, 2010.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on managements current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Readers of this report should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect our actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements, including those set forth in this report. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, North Carolina manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of our product pricing and promotions; future economic circumstances; industr y conditions; our ability to execute our operating plans; the success of our innovation, marketing, and cost savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting our businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any; finalization of the company's financial statements for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2011; and other risks described in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report which speak only as of the date of this report.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
For more information, please contact:
Media Teresa Paulsen Vice President, Corporate Communication 402-240-5210
teresa.paulsen@conagrafoods.com
Analysts Chris Klinefelter Vice President, Investor Relations 402-240-4154
chris.klinefelter@conagrafoods.com
www.conagrafoods.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., Dec. 9, 2010  Today ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) announced that its fiscal 2011 second-quarter diluted EPS will be lower than planned, at approximately $0.45 as reported and on a comparable basis. The fiscal second-quarter results primarily reflect difficult category conditions, softer-than-planned response to promotions, and higher-than-planned inflation in the Consumer Foods segment. Weaker-than-expected profits from the Lamb Weston specialty potato operations in the Commercial Foods segment also negatively impacted results.
The company is revising its guidance for fiscal 2011 diluted EPS and now expects a low-single-digit rate of diluted EPS growth, adjusted for items impacting comparability, over the comparable $1.74 per share earned in fiscal 2010. Previously, the company expected fiscal 2011 diluted EPS to show 5-7% comparable growth. The downward revision reflects weaker-than-planned first-half EPS results, as well as earnings dilution resulting from early payment of payment-in-kind notes receivable by a debtor.
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
receivable owed to ConAgra Foods as a result of the divestiture of the Trading & Merchandising operations in June 2008. The two tranches of securities had been scheduled to mature in June 2011 and 2012.
The company expects a year-over-year increase in operating profit in the second half of fiscal 2011 based on:
The company will provide more details on the fiscal 2011 second-quarter performance and full-year outlook in its regularly scheduled earnings release on Dec. 21, 2010.
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
www.conagrafoods.com
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect our actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements, including those set forth in this release. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, North Carolina manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of our product pricing and promotions; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; our ability to execute our operating plans; the success of our innovation, marketing, and cost savings initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting our businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any; and other risks described in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release which speak only as of the date of this release.
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4


