FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20100216073656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Today, February 16, 2010, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference, which is scheduled to begin at 9:15 a.m. EST this morning. The presentation will be webcast. The press release also provides information on expected financial results for the Company's second half of fiscal 2010. The press release and slides used in the presentation by the Company are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
     The presentation includes the non-GAAP financial measures of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability; return on invested capital, excluding items impacting comparability; and Consumer Foods segment adjusted operating profit. The Company's non-GAAP measures exclude from reported results those items that management believes are not indicative of the Company's ongoing performance. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements, operating results and trends. The non-GAAP measures are reconciled in the presentation to the most comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of the GAAP financial measures.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     Today, February 16, 2010, the Company announced in a press release that its Board of Directors has approved a $500 million share repurchase program with no expiration date. Under the share repurchase authorization, the Company plans to repurchase its shares periodically, depending on market conditions and other factors, and may do so in open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions. The Company expects this to be a multi-year program. The authorization has no time limit, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
     Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued February 16, 2010
     Exhibit 99.2 CAGNY Slide Presentation
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONAGRA FOODS REAFFIRMS FISCAL 2010 EPS GUIDANCE AND LONG-TERM EPS GROWTH EXPECTATIONS AT CONSUMER CONFERENCE; ANNOUNCES $500 MILLION SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM
OMAHA, Neb., Feb. 16, 2010 Today ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) will update the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY) on the company's progress and outlook at the CAGNY annual conference in Boca Raton, Fla. ConAgra Foods CEO Gary Rodkin, Consumer Foods President Andr Hawaux, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer John Gehring will discuss key strategic priorities and share the company's current financial outlook.
"We are excited about the momentum under way at ConAgra Foods," Rodkin said. "We made great progress over the last four years building the foundation for sustainable, profitable growth. ConAgra Foods has significant ongoing potential, based on the improvements we have made in our supply chain, sales execution, marketing, and innovation capabilities. The share repurchase program being announced today demonstrates our confidence in our ability to generate strong amounts of cash and to continue successfully executing our initiatives. This is truly an exciting time for ConAgra Foods."
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
Financial Goals and Share Repurchase
Regarding the financial goals that will be shared at the conference, the company expects the following:
EPS amounts above refer to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability.
The company also announced that its Board of Directors has approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization with no expiration date; this reflects the company's strong cash position and positive cash flow outlook. The company plans to repurchase its shares periodically, depending on market conditions and other factors, and may do so in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. The company expects this to be a multi-year program.
Presentation Details
In today's presentation, Rodkin will detail the company's improvements in culture, portfolio, marketing, innovation, supply chain, and customer focus, contrasting today's ConAgra Foods with the company of four years ago. He'll also provide direction on the company's next phase, summarizing strategic priorities and plans to capitalize on the strong momentum. Hawaux will emphasize the significantly improved execution taking place in the Consumer Foods segment, focusing on customer programs and supply chain opportunities. The company expects to continue to generate substantial cost savings, primarily from supply chain efficiencies, and to use those savings to invest in marketing and innovation, and to drive earnings growth.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
For more details please refer to the presentation itself, which will be webcast live today at 9:15 a.m. EST at and archived for one year.
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise, and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying potato, other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
www.conagrafoods.com
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, North Carolina manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Regulation G Disclosure
Long-term EPS and ROIC guidance discussed in this release excludes items impacting comparability. The inability to predict the timing and amount of future items impacting comparability makes a detailed reconciliation of projections impracticable.
Continuing Operations
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


