FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20100921074404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On September 21, 2010, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document ("Q&A") on its website containing information on the Company's first quarter fiscal 2011 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
     The press release and Q&A include the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. These measures are reconciled in the press release and Q&A to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
          Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued September 21, 2010
          Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued September 21, 2010
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
Teresa Paulsen Vice President, Corporate Communication ConAgra Foods, Inc. tel: 402-240-5210
For more information, contact:
MEDIA
Chris Klinefelter Vice President, Investor Relations ConAgra Foods, Inc. tel: 402-240-4154
ANALYSTS
www.conagrafoods.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONAGRA FOODS REPORTS FISCAL 2011 FIRST-QUARTER RESULTS; REVISES FISCAL 2011 OUTLOOK TO 5-7% COMPARABLE EPS GROWTH; INCREASES DIVIDEND 15%.
First Quarter Fiscal 2011 Highlights:
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 21, 2010  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2011 first quarter ended Aug. 29, 2010. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.32, including $0.02 per diluted share of net expense from items impacting comparability. Adjusting for those items, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.34, which is below comparable year-ago amounts. For the same period a year ago, diluted EPS from continuing operations as reported was $0.37, which included $0.01 of expense from items impacting comparability. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "Our fiscal first-quarter margins and EPS were lower than planned because of an intense promotional environment and inflation that outpaced cost savings. There were, however, several signs of strength in terms of market share and brand sales, demonstrating progress and growth potential for important parts of our portfolio."
He continued, "Our plans are to improve the EPS performance in the back half of the year through increased contribution from recently introduced new products and recent acquisitions, productivity initiatives, and more effective promotional strategies. Our initiatives, as well as lower SG&A expense, are expected to provide meaningful financial offset to the challenges we face. Furthermore, the positive impacts from a higher-quality potato crop are expected to provide increased year-over-year profitability for the Commercial Foods segment, particularly in the back half of the year."
"Based on the first-quarter performance and overall business conditions, we have revised our yearly outlook to 5-7% comparable EPS growth for the full year. We are confident that the strong foundation we have built over the last few years through innovation, cost savings, marketing, and sales execution initiatives will allow us to deliver our revised full-year EPS results."
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
Lapping a strong quarter in the year-ago period, the Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $1,824 million and operating profit of $214 million for the first quarter. Sales decreased 2% as reported, reflecting a 3% organic volume decline, a 1% decline in overall price/mix, and a 2% benefit from acquisitions (net of divestitures).
Due to an intensely competitive environment, sales results reflect higher-than-planned promotional spending for some categories, particularly frozen foods, table spreads, and popcorn. In general, promotional programs did not drive increased consumer purchase to the extent expected, reflecting the prolonged economic challenges consumers have faced and the difficult retail environment. Despite the overall challenges, a number of brands posted sales gains and the company's overall unit market share improved. The company also notes good progress in sales to non-measured channels. Increased contributions from recently introduced and planned new products, as well as revised promotional strategies, are expected to improve year-over-year sales performance in the back half of the year.
Operating profit of $214 million was 14% below last year's $250 million, as reported. Excluding $8 million of restructuring costs in the current year, comparable current-quarter operating profit of $222 million was 11% below the comparable year-ago amount of $250 million. The lower profitability reflects the sales challenges discussed above, new product introduction costs, inflation that outpaced cost savings, and a difficult comparison given last year's strong performance. The company generated strong cost savings during the quarter; consistent with original expectations, cost savings are expected to accelerate and result in $275 million of benefit for the full fiscal year.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
The company expects the year-over-year profit performance for this segment to be much stronger in the back half of the year given the timing of cost savings as well as increased contribution from recent innovation and recently acquired businesses.
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $993 million, 3% below last year's $1,026 million. Segment operating profit was $112 million, 17% below last year's $134 million. Lamb Weston specialty potato operations posted increased sales and unit volume despite continued weak restaurant industry conditions; but as expected, the impact of last year's poor-quality potato crop resulted in a decline in operating profit for those operations. The company begins processing a new potato crop during the second fiscal quarter of fiscal 2011, which is expected to significantly improve results in the back half of the fiscal year. Flour milling sales declined due to the pass-through impact of lower wheat prices; operating profits for those operations were slightly below last year's very strong levels.
For the full fiscal year, profits for this segment are expected to increase year-over-year, with the progress occurring in the back half of the year. The company notes that its new sweet potato plant, which will support high growth in the sweet potato category, will be operational in the second fiscal quarter of the year as planned.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded $6 million of net hedging loss as unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, and $7 million of net hedging loss as unallocated Corporate expense in the year-ago period. The company identifies both of these amounts as items impacting comparability. Those amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity or foreign currency being hedged is expensed in segment cost of goods sold.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Other Items
Capital Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Revised Outlook for Fiscal 2011
The company now expects fiscal 2011 full-year diluted EPS, adjusted for items impacting comparability, to grow 5-7% over the base of $1.74 earned in fiscal 2010, although a modest year-over-year EPS decline is expected in the fiscal second quarter. Accordingly, the company expects the year's EPS growth versus year-ago amounts to occur entirely in the third and fourth fiscal quarters.
The company remains committed to its long-term financial goals, which include comparable EPS growth of 8-10% annually.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
Major Items Impacting First-quarter Fiscal 2011 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.32 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Included in the $0.37 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-312-3047 and 1-719-325-2199, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 1435903. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's website.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at http://investor.conagrafoods.com. To view recent company news, please visit http://media.conagrafoods.com.
Annual Stockholders' Meeting Webcast
The company will webcast its 2010 Annual Stockholders' Meeting on Friday, Sept. 24, 2010. This event will be webcast live beginning at 2:30 p.m. EDT. The webcast will be archived starting at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Friday, Sept. 24, and can be accessed at http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com.
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 14
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 15

Exhibit 99.2
Q1 FY11 Question & Answer
Sept. 21, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.


