FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20100325073758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On March 25, 2010, ConAgra Foods, Inc. issued a press release and posted a question and answer document on its website containing information on the third quarter fiscal 2010 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
     The release includes the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess our operating performance. These measures are reconciled in the release to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, our diluted earnings per share and operating performance measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Third Quarter Highlights (vs. year-ago amounts):
OMAHA, Neb., March 25, 2010  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2010 third quarter ended Feb. 28, 2010. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.50 compared with $0.43 a year ago. Current quarter results include $0.06 per diluted share of benefit, while prior-year amounts included $0.03 of net benefit, from items impacting comparability. Diluted EPS from continuing operations on a comparable basis was $0.44, up 10% from comparable amounts in the year-ago period.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, commented, "We are pleased to report another good quarter where comparable EPS growth was primarily driven by profit improvement for our Consumer Foods segment. The continued momentum in our sales, innovation, marketing, and cost-savings initiatives is generating the second-half results we expected. As we discussed in our recent presentation to the Consumer Analyst Group of New York, we are confident that our strong business foundation has positioned us for sustainable profitable growth."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,034 million and operating profit of $306 million for the quarter. Sales increased 2% and unit volumes increased 3%, reflecting the benefit of ongoing innovation, marketing, and customer service initiatives. Foreign exchange favorably impacted sales growth by 1%. Sales growth was slower than unit volume growth due to slotting and couponing connected with new product launches, as well as lower prices for cooking oil and related items due to the pass-through of lower cooking oil costs.
Operating profit of $306 million was 25% ahead of last year's $245 million; current-quarter amounts include a gain of approximately $14 million from the sale of the Luck's brand. Excluding this gain, current-quarter segment operating profit was $292 million, up 19%. The strong year-over-year profit improvement reflects a more favorable input cost environment, strong productivity savings, and good sales results. These factors enabled a $12 million increase in advertising and promotion investment during the quarter. Due to progress with the ongoing recovery of the business, the company notes that year-over-year differences in sales and profits for that product line did not significantly impact the segment's sales or operating profit
Slim Jim
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
comparisons for the third quarter. See page 8 for a Regulation G reconciliation of operating profit.
Fiscal third quarter sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,062 million, 6% below last year's $1,134 million; the decrease was driven by lower flour milling sales that reflect the pass-through impact of lower underlying wheat costs. Segment operating profit was $149 million, 6% above last year's $141 million. Lamb Weston profits improved on a modest increase in sales, reflecting the positive impacts of higher prices necessitated by increased input costs, as well as plant efficiencies and improved mix. Lamb Weston's sales and profit growth continued to be negatively impacted by difficult food service industry conditions. Flour milling profits remained strong, reflecting continued excellent operational efficiencies and favorable wheat market conditions; as expected, current-quarter milling profits were below the very strong amounts earned in the year-ago period. Profits for the rest of the segment were marginally above year-ago amounts.
As previously discussed, the company expects full-year fiscal 2010 Commercial Foods segment operating profit to be in line with fiscal 2009 amounts. Full-year operating profit estimates for the Commercial Foods segment reflect plans that fiscal fourth quarter operating profit will be below year-ago amounts; this is largely driven by the absence of a 53 week, the impact of a cost allocation process change at Lamb Weston discussed earlier in the year, and the expected continuation of a difficult foodservice environment.
rd
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded an immaterial net hedging benefit in unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, and $35 million of net hedging benefit in unallocated Corporate expense in the year-ago period. The company identifies the $35 million in prior-year amounts as an item impacting comparability. Hedge amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
segments when the underlying commodity being hedged is recognized in segment cost of goods sold.
Other Items
Capital Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Full Year EPS On Track
The company continues to expect fiscal 2010 full-year diluted EPS from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability, to approach $1.73. To date, the company has earned $1.42 in diluted EPS from continuing operations as reported, and $1.34 in diluted EPS from continuing operations, excluding items impacting comparability.
See page 8 for a Regulation G reconciliation of year-to-date EPS.
Major Items Impacting Third-quarter Fiscal 2010 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.50 per diluted share of EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Included in the $0.43 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-888-737-3713 and 1-913-312-0381, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 1894303. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's Web site.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at To view recent company news, please visit
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
http://media.conagrafoods.com.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 96 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip
www.conagrafoods.com
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Regulation G Disclosure
Continuing Operations
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share exclusive of items impacting comparability.
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results (in millions)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 15
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued) (in millions)

Exhibit 99.2
Q3 FY10 Question & Answer March 25, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.


