FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20110623073915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On June 23, 2011, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document ("Q&A") on its website containing information on the Company's fourth quarter fiscal 2011 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
     The press release and Q&A include the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. These measures are reconciled in the press release and Q&A to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release issued June 23, 2011
Exhibit 99.2    Questions and Answers
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
     
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Highlights (vs. year-ago period amounts where applicable):
OMAHA, Neb., June 23, 2011  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter, which ended May 29, 2011. As reported, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.62, 130% above the $0.27 earned in the year-ago period. Results include $0.15 of net benefit in the current quarter
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
and $0.11 of net expense in the year-ago period from items impacting comparability; adjusting for those items, comparable diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.47 in the current quarter was 24% above the $0.38 earned a year ago. Items impacting comparability, including those related to business segment performance, for the current fiscal year and prior fiscal year are summarized toward the end of this release and reconciled for Regulation G purposes on page 9.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "Overall marketplace and economic conditions remain challenging, as our Consumer Foods segment incurred 9% cost inflation this quarter. We are, however, demonstrating progress in some key areas of our business. Net pricing has begun to improve in Consumer Foods sales, cost savings are on track, and Lamb Weston and flour milling operations are delivering stronger results for our Commercial Foods segment. High input costs and difficult economic conditions are expected to continue to create challenges in fiscal 2012; additional pricing actions are under way, and productivity initiatives should continue to be strong. Despite the challenging circumstances, we expect our overall fiscal 2012 to show low- to mid-single digit EPS growth, adjusted for items impacting comparability; we remain committed to our long-term EPS growth goal of 6-8% annually."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,027 million and operating profit of $367 million for the fourth quarter. Sales increased slightly as reported, reflecting favorable price/mix of 2%, approximately 2% benefit from acquisitions (net of divestitures), and an organic volume decline of 3%. The volume decline reflects difficult market conditions, including soft demand and the impact of price increases necessitated by high input costs. Net prices have increased for key areas of the portfolio, including cooking oil-related products, frozen foods, and snacks. Additional net pricing increases have been implemented early in fiscal 2012, and the company will continue taking responsible pricing actions as market conditions require.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
Operating profit of $367 million was 63% above the $226 million in the year-ago period, as reported. Current-quarter operating profit includes $95 million of net benefit from items impacting comparability, the largest component of which is an insurance-related gain; prior-year amounts include $69 million of net expense from items impacting comparability. Adjusting for those amounts, comparable current-quarter operating profit of $273 million was 7% below prior-year comparable operating profit of $295 million. The comparable profit decline reflects very high input cost inflation, which approximated 9% of cost of goods sold; inflation was partially offset by pricing actions, as discussed above, as well as strong supply chain savings, lower advertising and promotion expense, and lower incentive compensation expense.
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,183 million, 15% above year-ago amounts. The sales increase reflects higher flour milling prices given higher wheat costs, as well as improved volumes for Lamb Weston specialty potato products and price increases necessitated by high input costs.
Segment operating profit was $127 million, 14% above year-ago amounts. Lamb Weston profitability improved significantly due to higher volumes and ongoing pricing initiatives, as well as operating efficiencies resulting from improved crop quality. Lamb Weston profitability also benefitted from good volume growth for sweet potato products and other favorable product mix. Flour milling profits increased from year-ago amounts due to favorable market conditions and effective commodity management in a very volatile wheat market.
Capital and Other Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Outlook
The company expects fiscal 2012 EPS, adjusted for items impacting comparability, to grow at a low- to mid-single-digit rate over the comparable fiscal 2011 diluted EPS base of $1.75. The outlook reflects pricing actions under way in both segments and the expected benefit of productivity programs, along with an estimated 7-8% inflation in the Consumer Foods segment and increased pension expense. Given the timing of inflation and pricing, the company expects the fiscal 2012 EPS growth to be concentrated in the second half of the fiscal year, and for the fiscal 2012 first quarter EPS to be below the comparable $0.34 earned in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
The company's long-term EPS growth target remains 6-8% annually, adjusted for items impacting comparability.
Major Items Impacting Fourth-quarter Fiscal 2011 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.62 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Included in the $0.27 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-877-627-6590 and 1-719-325-4756, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 1850452. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's website.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at http://investor.conagrafoods.com. To view recent company news, please visit http://media.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at www.conagrafoods.com.
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials, including the impact of inflation; the impact of the 2009 accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred versus the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing, including the ability of the company to timely increase prices; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating and network optimization plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date of this release.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
Q4 FY11 & Q4 FY10 Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations  Reconciliation for Regulation G Purposes
Consumer Foods Segment Operating Profit  Reconciliation for Regulation G Purposes
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit adjusted for items impacting comparability.
FY11 EPS  Reconciliation for Regulation G Purposes
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
Q1 FY11 Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations  Reconciliation for Regulation G Purposes
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 15
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions) (unaudited)

Exhibit 99.2
Q4 FY11 Question & Answer June 23, 2011
1
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
(in millions)
(unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
4
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Income Statement for Fiscal 2011 and 2010
(in millions)
(unaudited)
5
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials, including the impact of inflation; the impact of the 2009 accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred versus the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing, including the ability of the company to timely increase prices; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating and network optimization plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date of this document.
6


