FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20110920073530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On September 20, 2011, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document ("Q&A") on its website containing information on the Company's first quarter fiscal 2012 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
          The press release and Q&A include the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted operating profit for the Commercial Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and net debt. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. These measures are reconciled in the press release and Q&A to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
          Exhibit 99.1 Press Release issued September 20, 2011
          Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued September 20, 2011
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
First-quarter Fiscal 2012 Highlights:
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 20, 2011  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2012 first quarter ended Aug. 28, 2011. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.20, including $0.09 per diluted share of expense from items impacting comparability. Adjusting for those items, diluted EPS from
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
continuing operations was $0.29. For the same period a year ago, diluted EPS from continuing operations as reported was $0.32, and was $0.34 after adjusting for $0.02 of expense from items impacting comparability. The company planned for a year-over-year decline in fiscal first-quarter EPS due to the timing of inflation and pricing. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release and reconciled for Regulation G purposes starting on page 9.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "Despite a very challenging environment and high inflation, we delivered accelerating price/mix contribution and robust cost savings. The first-quarter EPS reflects the negative impact of short-term wheat market dynamics in our Commercial Foods segment and severe inflation in our Consumer Foods segment. We took pricing actions in the first quarter in both of our operating segments, and more pricing actions will soon be implemented in both segments. Our EPS goal for the full year remains unchanged."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $1,892 million and operating profit of $196 million for the first quarter. Sales increased 4%, reflecting flat volumes and 4% contribution from price/mix. Additional increases are planned for the second quarter.
Operating profit of $196 million was 6% below last year's $208 million as reported. Restructuring charges of $16 million in the current quarter and $8 million in the year-ago period are included in reported results; adjusting for these amounts, current quarter operating profit of $212 million was 1% below $216 million in the year-ago period. The slight comparable operating profit decline reflects very high input cost inflation (approximately 11%) in the current quarter, which, as expected, more than offset strong cost savings and the benefit of pricing.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
Because of pricing actions already taken, as well as additional pricing actions under way, the company expects this segment to post year-over-year operating profit growth, adjusted for items impacting comparability, in the second half of fiscal 2012.
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,180 million, 19% above year-ago amounts. Segment operating profit was $98 million, 14% below year-ago amounts; adjusting for $4 million of restructuring charges in the current quarter, the comparable year-over-year decline in operating profit was 10%.
The sales increase largely reflects the pass-through of higher year-over-year wheat costs in the form of higher flour prices for the milling operations. The sales performance also reflects Lamb Weston's price increases, which were necessitated by higher input costs, and volume gains. Lamb Weston's price/mix is expected to continue to improve throughout the balance of the year.
The segment's profit decline reflects the negative impact of wheat market dynamics related to the transition from the old crop to the new crop; this impact more than offset the benefits of mix and efficiencies throughout the segment. This segment is expected to post improved year-over-year profitability in the balance of this fiscal year, driven by improved performance at Lamb Weston.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded $34 million of net hedging loss as unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, and $6 million of net hedging loss as unallocated Corporate expense in the year-ago period. The company identifies these amounts as items impacting comparability. Those amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity or foreign currency being hedged is expensed in segment cost of goods sold.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Other Items
Capital Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Fiscal 2012 Guidance Reaffirmed
The company continues to expect fiscal 2012 full-year diluted EPS, adjusted for items impacting comparability, to grow at a low- to mid-single-digit rate over the comparable $1.75 earned last fiscal year. The company has revised its full-year inflation expectations for the Consumer Foods segment to 9-10% from its original estimate of 7-8%. As previously communicated, given the timing of pricing and inflation, the fiscal year's EPS growth is expected to occur in the second half of the fiscal year. The company expects fiscal 2012 second-quarter EPS to reflect high inflation as well as increased marketing investments, and therefore to be below comparable year-ago amounts.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Major Items Impacting First-quarter Fiscal 2012 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.20 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Included in the $0.32 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-877-741-4248 and 1-719-325-4901, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 2666729. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's website.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at . To view recent company news, please visit .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
http://media.conagrafoods.com
Annual Stockholders' Meeting Webcast
The company will webcast its 2011 Annual Stockholders' Meeting on Friday, Sept. 23, 2011. This event will be webcast live beginning at 2:30 p.m. EDT. The webcast will be archived starting at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Friday, Sept. 23, and can be accessed at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the effectiveness of its product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of Q1 FY12 and Q1 FY11 diluted earnings per share, Consumer Foods segment operating profit, Commercial Foods segment operating profit, and FY11 diluted earnings per share, adjusted for items impacting comparability. Amounts may be impacted by rounding.
Q1 FY12 & Q1 FY11 Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations  Reconciliation for Regulation G Purposes
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions) (unaudited)

Exhibit 99.2
Q1 FY12 Question & Answer Sept. 20, 2011
1 
 
 
 
2 
 
3 
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the effectiveness of its product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
4 


