FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20110222073518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Today, February 22, 2011, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference, which is scheduled to begin at 9:15 a.m. EST this morning. The presentation will be webcast. The press release and slides used in the presentation by the Company are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release and slides include the non-GAAP financial measures of diluted earnings per share, adjusted for items impacting comparability, and return on invested capital, adjusted for items impacting comparability. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. These measures are reconciled in the press release and slides to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
     Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued February 22, 2011
     Exhibit 99.2 CAGNY Slide Presentation
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Media Teresa Paulsen Vice President, Corporate Communication 402-240-5210
For more information, please contact:
teresa.paulsen@conagrafoods.com
Analysts Chris Klinefelter Vice President, Investor Relations 402-240-4154
chris.klinefelter@conagrafoods.com
www.conagrafoods.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., Feb. 22, 2011  Today ConAgra Foods (NYSE: CAG) will provide a company update to analysts and investors at the annual Consumer Analyst Group of New York Conference in Boca Raton, Fla. ConAgra Foods CEO Gary Rodkin and Chief Financial Officer John Gehring will present the company's accomplishments and outlook.
Rodkin will discuss the company's strong operating foundation, highlighting the progress in its Consumer Foods' frozen food operations and growth opportunities in other areas of the business. Rodkin will also emphasize that in today's inflationary environment, price increases are necessary; these increases are underway and should favorably impact the company's results over the next few quarters.
Gehring will confirm that the company is on track to meet its fiscal 2011 EPS expectations, previously communicated as a low single-digit rate of EPS growth over the comparable $1.74 earned in fiscal 2010. He will note that specific projections for fiscal 2012 are still being developed. With regard to the long-term financial outlook, he will state:
 
CONGRA FOODS page 2
As part of the company's efficiency initiatives, Gehring will note a recently approved restructuring plan that will result in an estimated $65 million of pre-tax charges over an 18-month period. Approximately $25 million of these charges represent a cash outlay.
The presentation that accompanies today's remarks will be archived on the company's website under the section for Investors.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONGRA FOODS page 3
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the 2009 accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating and network optimization plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date of this release.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


