FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20110324073536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On March 24, 2011, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document ("Q&A") on its website containing information on the Company's third quarter fiscal 2011 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
     The press release and Q&A include the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted operating profit for the Commercial Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense, adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and net debt. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. These measures are reconciled in the press release and Q&A to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
This report, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 furnished hereunder, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Readers of this report should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect our actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements, including those set forth in this report. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of our product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; our ability to execute our operating and network optimization plans; the success of our innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of our product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting our businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report which speak only as of the date of this report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued March 24, 2011
Exhibit 99.2 Questions and Answers

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Highlights (vs. year-ago amounts):
OMAHA, Neb., March 24, 2011  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2011 third quarter ended Feb. 27, 2011. As reported, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.50, a 2% increase over the $0.49 earned in the year-ago period. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 16% after adjusting for $0.06 per diluted share of net benefit in the year-ago period from items impacting comparability. Items impacting comparability, including those relating to business segment performance, for the current fiscal year (no net EPS impact) and prior fiscal year are summarized toward the end of this release and reconciled for Regulation G purposes on pages 9 and 10.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 2
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "We are pleased that fiscal third-quarter results demonstrate comparable EPS and segment operating profit growth, despite high input cost inflation and other challenging economic conditions. Sequential price/mix trends in our Consumer Foods segment are directionally improving as we expected. While inflationary pressures continue to build and difficult conditions persist, we expect our performance to continue to benefit from pricing actions under way, strong supply chain cost savings, and other profit-enhancing initiatives we have previously detailed. We are confident in our ability to post a low-single-digit rate of EPS growth over the comparable $1.74 earned last fiscal year."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,085 million and operating profit of $263 million for the third quarter. Sales increased 2% as reported, reflecting flat organic volume and price/mix compared with a year ago, and approximately 2% benefit from acquisitions (net of divestitures).
Operating profit of $263 million was below $306 million in the year-ago period, as reported. After adjusting for $39 million of restructuring and asset impairment costs in the current period, as well as $14 million of gain from divesting the brand in the year-ago period, comparable current-quarter operating profit increased 3%. The profit performance reflects strong supply chain savings, lower advertising and promotion expense, and lower incentive compensation expense, which collectively offset significant inflation. The company is on track to deliver in excess of $275 million of cost savings in the Consumer Foods segment this fiscal year.
Luck's
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 3
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,070 million, 7% above year-ago amounts. The sales increase reflects higher selling prices for the flour milling operations necessitated by higher wheat input costs, as well as volume growth for Lamb Weston specialty potato products.
Segment operating profit was $139 million, slightly below $143 million in the year-ago period as reported. After adjusting for $10 million of restructuring charges in the current quarter, comparable segment operating profit increased 5%. Lamb Weston benefited from improved potato crop quality, and has pricing and efficiency initiatives under way to address overall margin pressure. Flour milling profits increased from year-ago amounts due to favorable market conditions and effective margin management in a very volatile wheat market.
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded $24 million of net hedging benefit within unallocated Corporate expense in the current quarter, and an immaterial amount in the year-ago period. The company identifies the $24 million gain as an item impacting comparability. The net hedging amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity or foreign currency being economically hedged is expensed in segment cost of goods sold.
Capital and Other Items
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 4
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 5
Outlook
The company continues to expect fiscal 2011 full-year diluted EPS, adjusted for items impacting comparability, to show a low-single-digit rate of growth over the comparable $1.74 earned in fiscal 2010. This improvement primarily reflects the benefits of pricing actions, strong supply chain savings, improved potato crop quality, lower incentive compensation costs, share repurchases, and contributions from innovation and recently acquired businesses.
Regarding quarterly details:
The company notes that fiscal 2012 projections have not yet been finalized; consistent with past practice, the company plans to provide fiscal 2012 guidance in its fiscal fourth-quarter release.
Major Items Impacting Third-quarter Fiscal 2011 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.50 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 6
Included in the $0.49 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 7
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-877-718-5104 and 1-719-325-4747, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 4725396. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's website.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at . To view recent company news, please visit .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
http://media.conagrafoods.com
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 8
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the 2009 accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating and network optimization plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date of this release.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 9
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
Consumer Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
Commercial Foods Segment
Below is a reconciliation of segment operating profit exclusive of items impacting comparability.
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 10
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 11
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 12
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Segment Operating Results (in millions) (unaudited)
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 13
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 14
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 15
ConAgra Foods, Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions) (unaudited)
 
CONAGRA FOODS page 16

Exhibit 99.2
Q3 FY11 Question & Answer
March 24, 2011
 
 
 
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials; the impact of the accident at the Garner, N.C., manufacturing facility, including the ultimate costs incurred and the amounts received under insurance policies; the effectiveness of its product pricing; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date of this release.


