FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20120221073753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Today, February 21, 2012, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its presentation at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference, which is scheduled to begin at 9:15 a.m. EST this morning. The presentation will be webcast. The press release and slides used in the presentation by the Company are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release and slides include the non-GAAP financial measures of diluted earnings per share, adjusted for items impacting comparability, return on invested capital, adjusted for items impacting comparability and earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance, financial position, cash generating capacity and its ability to meet its future debt service. These measures are reconciled in the press release and slides to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued February 21, 2012
Exhibit 99.2 CAGNY Slide Presentation
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
OMAHA, Neb., Feb. 21, 2012 - Today ConAgra Foods (NYSE: CAG) will provide a company update to analysts and investors at the annual Consumer Analyst Group of New York Conference in Boca Raton, Fla. ConAgra Foods CEO Gary Rodkin, President of Consumer Foods Andre Hawaux, and Chief Financial Officer John Gehring will present the company's accomplishments and outlook.
Rodkin will discuss the company's , which focuses on expanding in adjacencies, international opportunities, and private label operations. Hawaux will comment on , a series of initiatives designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow revenues for the Consumer Foods segment, and he will also discuss Consumer Foods' productivity initiatives. Gehring will confirm that the company is on track to meet its fiscal 2012 EPS expectations, previously communicated as a low to mid-single-digit rate of EPS growth, adjusted for items impacting comparability, over the comparable $1.75 earned in fiscal 2011, and that the long term financial goals remain as follows:
Recipe For Growth
Customer Connect
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
 
 
Rodkin commented, "While current conditions are certainly challenging, we are confident in our strong foundation and our ability to successfully execute our initiatives over the long term. We plan to leverage our operating competencies and utilize our sizeable cash flow to create long-term shareholder value through organic growth and prudent capital allocation."
The presentation that accompanies today's remarks will be archived on the company's website under the section for Investors.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials, including any negative effects caused by inflation; the effectiveness of the company's product pricing, including any pricing actions and promotional changes; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of any product recalls; the company's success in efficiently and effectively integrating the company's acquisitions; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share adjusted for items impacting comparability.
 
 



