FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20120920073654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 20, 2012, ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release and posted a question and answer document ("Q&A") on its website containing information on the Company's first quarter fiscal 2013 financial results. The press release and Q&A are furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
The press release and Q&A include the non-GAAP financial measures of adjusted operating profit for the Consumer Foods segment, adjusted operating profit for the Commercial Foods segment, adjusted unallocated corporate expense, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, effective tax rate excluding items impacting comparability and net debt. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Company's financial statements and believes these non-GAAP measures provide useful supplemental information to assess the Company's operating performance and financial position. To the extent required, these measures are reconciled in the press release and Q&A to the most directly comparable measures as reported in accordance with GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Company's diluted earnings per share and operating performance and financial measures as calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Fiscal 2013 First-quarter Highlights (% cited vs. year-ago amounts, where applicable):
 
 
 
 
 
 
OMAHA, Neb., Sept. 20, 2012  ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) one of North America's leading packaged food companies, today reported results for the fiscal 2013 first quarter ended Aug. 26, 2012. Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.61 in the current quarter, up 177% over $0.22 earned in the year-ago period. Excluding $0.17 of net benefit in the current quarter and $0.09
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 2
 
of net expense in the year-ago period from items impacting comparability, current quarter comparable EPS of $0.44 was 42% above the comparable $0.31 earned in the year-ago period. Items impacting comparability in the current year and prior year are summarized toward the end of this release and reconciled for Regulation G purposes starting on page 10.
Gary Rodkin, ConAgra Foods' chief executive officer, said, "We are very pleased with our strong start to fiscal 2013. Based on continued momentum in our potato operations, effective margin management initiatives across the portfolio, and contribution from acquisitions, we are able to post a strong EPS performance in the midst of difficult marketplace conditions. It is clear that our operating capabilities, strategic initiatives, and prudent capital allocation are accelerating EPS performance. We have raised our EPS expectations for fiscal 2013 while continuing to make strong levels of marketing investment as part of long-term brand building initiatives."
The Consumer Foods segment posted sales of $2,043 million and operating profit of $235 million for the first quarter.Sales increased 8%, reflecting 8% contribution from acquisitions, 5% favorable price/mix, and a 4% organic volume decline. Foreign exchange rates negatively impacted sales by 1%.
 
 
Operating profit of $235 million grew 20% over $196 million in the year-ago period, as reported. After adjusting for $7 million of net expense in the current period, and $16 million of net expense a year ago, from items impacting comparability, current-quarter operating profit of $242 million increased 14% over the comparable $212 million a year ago. Marketing investment increased at a double-digit rate, as planned, reflecting the company's commitment to building long-term brand
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 3
 
strength. Operating profit growth reflects success with margin management initiatives (notably, price increases necessitated by inflation, and productivity programs that target in excess of $240 million of cost savings this fiscal year), as well as less severe inflation (approximately 3% of cost of goods sold this quarter), contribution from acquisitions, and favorable product mix.
Despite the recent increase in many commodities prices, net inflation for the Consumer Foods segment is expected to be slightly lower than originally planned; this reflects the company's effective procurement and hedging programs as well as the nature of the company's raw input needs. The segment's year-over-year volume performance is expected to improve throughout the fiscal year as the company laps the volume impact of price increases taken in fiscal 2012; the segment's innovation pipeline and increased marketing investment are expected to contribute to sequentially improved volume performance as the fiscal year progresses.
Sales for the Commercial Foods segment were $1,269 million, 5% above year-ago amounts. The sales increase was due to a strong top-line performance for the Lamb Weston potato operations, which posted good volume growth, particularly in international markets, as well as favorable price/mix. All of the segment's product lines posted volume growth.
Segment operating profit was $140 million, 43% above year-ago amounts as reported. After adjusting for $4 million of net expense from items impacting comparability in the year-ago period, current quarter profits increased 37% on a comparable basis. Lamb Weston's potato operations drove the segment's profit growth due to strong sales and a focus on operating efficiencies; international results for Lamb Weston were notably strong. Flour milling profits were in line with year-ago amounts.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 4
 
Hedging Activities 
This language primarily relates to operations other than the company's milling operations.
The company recorded $130 million of net hedge gains in the current quarter, and $34 million of net hedging loss in the year-ago period, as unallocated Corporate expense. The company identifies these amounts as items impacting comparability. Hedge gains and losses are aggregated, and net amounts are reclassified from unallocated Corporate expense to the operating segments when the underlying commodity or foreign currency being hedged is expensed in segment cost of goods sold.
Other Items
 
 
 
 
Capital Items
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 6
 
Fiscal 2013 EPS Outlook
Based on the strong start to the fiscal year, the company now expects fiscal 2013 diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.03  $2.06, adjusted for items impacting comparability.
The company expects its operating capabilities, strategic initiatives, and prudent capital allocation to continue to drive good underlying performance for the remainder of fiscal 2013. Relative to the strong comparable year-over-year EPS growth rate posted for the fiscal first quarter, the remaining fiscal quarters of fiscal 2013 are expected to show more modest rates of comparable year-over-year EPS growth, reflecting more difficult year-over-year comparisons as well as continued increases in marketing investment.
Major Items Impacting First-quarter Fiscal 2013 EPS Comparability
Included in the $0.61 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 7
 
Included in the $0.22 diluted EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 (EPS amounts rounded and after tax):
 
 
Discussion of Results
ConAgra Foods will host a conference call at 9:30 a.m. EDT today to discuss the results. Following the company's remarks, the call will include a question-and-answer session with the investment community. Domestic and international participants may access the conference call toll-free by dialing 1-877-675-4750 and 1-719-325-4747, respectively. No confirmation or pass code is needed. This conference call also can be accessed live on the Internet at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
A rebroadcast of the conference call will be available after 1 p.m. EDT today. To access the digital replay, a pass code number will be required. Domestic participants should dial 1-888-203-1112, and international participants should dial 1-719-457-0820 and enter pass code 2164760. A rebroadcast also will be available on the company's website.
In addition, the company has posted a question-and-answer supplement relating to this release at . To view recent company news, please visit .
http://investor.conagrafoods.com
http://media.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 8
 
Annual Stockholders' Meeting Webcast
The company will webcast its 2012 Annual Stockholders' Meeting on Friday, Sept. 21, 2012. This event will be webcast live beginning at 2:30 p.m. EDT. The webcast will be archived starting at 4:30 p.m. EDT on Friday, Sept. 21, and can be accessed at
http://investor.conagrafoods.com.
ConAgra Foods, Inc., (NYSE: CAG) is one of North America's leading food companies, with brands in 97 percent of America's households. Consumers find and many other ConAgra Foods brands in grocery, convenience, mass merchandise and club stores. ConAgra Foods also has a strong business-to-business presence, supplying frozen potato and sweet potato products as well as other vegetable, spice and grain products to a variety of well-known restaurants, foodservice operators and commercial customers. For more information, please visit us at .
Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Egg Beaters, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National, Hunt's, Marie Callender's, Orville Redenbacher's, PAM, Peter Pan, Reddi-wip, Slim Jim, Snack Pack
www.conagrafoods.com
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 9
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this release should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials, including any negative effects caused by inflation and adverse weather conditions; the effectiveness of its product pricing, including any pricing actions and promotional changes; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, including increased marketing investments, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; the company's success in effectively and efficiently integrating its acquisitions, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this release, which speak only as of the date made.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 10
 
Regulation G Disclosure
Below is a reconciliation of Q1 FY13 and Q1 FY12 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, Consumer Foods segment operating profit, and Commercial Foods segment operating profit, adjusted for items impacting comparability. Amounts may be impacted by rounding.
 
 
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 11
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Segment Operating Results
(in millions)
(unaudited)
 
Segment operating profit excludes general corporate expense, equity method investment earnings, and net interest expense. Management believes such amounts are not directly associated with segment performance results for the period. Management believes the presentation of total operating profit for segments facilitates period-to-period comparison of results of segment operations.
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 12
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
(in millions, except per share amounts)
(unaudited)
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 13
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in millions)
(unaudited)
 
 
CONAGRA FOODS
page 14
 
ConAgra Foods, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in millions)
(unaudited)
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Q1 FY13 Question & Answer
September 20, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
Consumer Foods organic volume decreased 4%.
Commercial Foods volume increased 4%.
 
There has been a change in methodology regarding the presentation of certain types of product sales. Previously, the margin from these sales was included as a reduction of cost of goods sold, and now it is reported on a gross basis as sales and cost of goods sold. This has no impact on profitability.
 
Approximately $91 million (versus approximately $91 million in Q1 FY12)
 
 
Approximately $99 million (versus approximately $96 million in Q1 FY12)
 
Approximately $49 million (versus approximately $53 million in Q1 FY12)
 
Unallocated Corporate amounts were a net gain of $43 million for the current quarter, and a net expense of $104 million in the year-ago period, as reported. Current-quarter amounts include $130 million of net benefit due to hedge gains and $12 million of expense related to other items impacting comparability, while year-ago amounts include $34 million of hedge losses and $3 million of restructuring charges. Excluding these amounts, unallocated Corporate expense was $75 million for the current quarter (rounded) and $67 million in the year-ago period.
 
Approximately $98 million (versus approximately $94 million in Q1 FY12), reflecting an increase in the dividend rate earlier this fiscal year, which was partially offset by the impact of fewer shares outstanding.
 
Approximately 412 million shares for the quarter
 
The company repurchased approximately 2.95 million of its shares of common stock during the quarter for approximately $75 million; the company has approximately $450 million remaining on its current share repurchase authorization.
 
Gross margin = segment gross profit* divided by net sales
Gross margin = $741/$3,312 = 22%
Operating margin = segment operating profit** divided by net sales
Operating margin = $375/$3,312 = 11%
 
 
 
 
 
40% currently and 31% a year ago
This ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt plus shareholders' equity. See question No. 13 for the components of net debt.
 
The company expects the tax rate to be in the range of 34%, excluding items impacting comparability. The company acknowledges that the quarterly rates may be different from this, given the timing of certain matters, but that the overall rate is expected to approximate 34%.
 
Total capital expenditures for fiscal 2013 are expected to modestly exceed $450 million.
 
Net interest expense for fiscal 2013 is expected to be approximately $215 million.
 
Note on Forward-looking Statements:
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this document should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the company's actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials, including any negative effects caused by inflation and adverse weather conditions; the effectiveness of its product pricing, including any pricing actions and promotional changes; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the company's ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans; the success of the company's innovation, marketing, including increased marketing investments, and cost-saving initiatives; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of the company's product recalls; access to capital; the company's success in effectively and efficiently integrating its acquisitions, actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the company's businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the amount and timing of repurchases of the company's common stock, if any; and other risks described in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this document, which speak only as of the date made.
 


