FILE:CAG/CAG-8K-20121015074339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Today, October 15, 2012, members of senior management of ConAgra Foods, Inc. (the "Company") will meet with members of the investment community. The Company expects to affirm its previously announced guidance of fiscal 2013 full-year diluted earnings per share ("EPS"), adjusted for items impacting comparability, to be in the range of $2.03 - $2.06. The Company also expects fiscal 2013 operating cash flow to exceed $1.2 billion and long-term annual EPS growth, adjusted for items impacting comparability, of 6 to 8%. This Current Report on Form 8-K includes the non-GAAP financial measure of diluted EPS, adjusted for items impacting comparability. Management considers GAAP financial measures as well as such non-GAAP financial information in its evaluation of the Companys financial statements and believes this non-GAAP measure provides useful supplemental information to assess the Companys operating performance and financial position. The inability to predict the timing and amount of future items impacting comparability makes a detailed reconciliation of earnings per share growth and return on invested capital impracticable.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on managements current views and assumptions of future events and financial performance and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. The Company undertakes no responsibility for updating these statements. Readers of this Report should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Many factors could affect the Companys actual financial results and cause them to vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: availability and prices of raw materials, including any negative effects caused by inflation or adverse weather conditions; the effectiveness of the Companys product pricing, including any pricing actions and promotional changes; future economic circumstances; industry conditions; the Companys ability to execute its operating and restructuring plans; the success of the Companys innovation, marketing, and cost-saving initiatives; the amount and timing of repurchases of the Companys common stock, if any; the competitive environment and related market conditions; operating efficiencies; the ultimate impact of any product recalls; the Companys success in efficiently and effectively integrating the Companys acquisitions; access to capital; actions of governments and regulatory factors affecting the Companys businesses, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; and other risks described in the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


