Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Years Ended September 30, 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands, except for percentages) Revenues Net revenues: Products $ 84,197 $ 82,566 $ 78,628 Services 31,698 25,700 28,739 Total $ 115,895 $ 108,266 $ 107,367 Percentage of net revenues Products 72.6 % 76.3 % 73.2 % Services 27.4 23.7 26.8 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Net Revenues. Total net revenues increased 7.0% in fiscal year 2003 from fiscal year ended September 30, 2002, or fiscal year 2002, compared to an increase of 0.8% in fiscal year 2002 from fiscal year 2001. International revenues represented 34.9%, 32.2% and 33.3% of net revenues in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We expect international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues, although we cannot provide assurance that international revenues as a percentage of net revenues will remain at current levels. Net product revenues were $84.2 million for fiscal year 2003 compared to $82.6 million for fiscal year 2002 and $78.6 million for fiscal year 2001. The 2.0% increase in fiscal year 2003 was primarily the result of sales in Asia Pacific and Europe. The 5.0% increase in fiscal year 2002 was primarily the result of strong sales in North America, partially offset by decreased sales in the Asia Pacific region. Sales of our BIG IP products represented 82.8%, 84.1% and 78.9% of total product revenues in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our BIG IP products consist of server appliances and IP application switches. Our IP application switch products, including BIG IP 1000, BIG IP 2400 and the BIG IP 5100 were introduced in the first quarter of fiscal year 2003 and represented 41.8% of product revenues in fiscal year 2003. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our product revenues from sales of BIG IP in 17 Table of Contents the future and expect the percentage of BIG IP revenues derived from IP application switches to continue to increase as a percentage of total product revenues. Net service revenues were $31.7 million for fiscal year 2003 compared to $25.7 million for fiscal year 2002 and $28.7 million for fiscal year 2001. Service revenues increased by 23.3% in fiscal year 2003 primarily due to an increase in the renewal of service and support contracts by existing customers, as our installed base increased. The 10.6% decrease in service revenues in fiscal year 2002 compared to fiscal year 2001 was primarily due to changes in pricing and a larger percentage of our resellers providing maintenance and installation to end users, partially offset by an increase in the renewal of service and support contracts by existing customers. Ingram Micro Inc., one of our domestic distributors, accounted for 12.6% of our total net revenues for fiscal year 2003. Ingram Micro accounted for 17.8% of our accounts receivable as of September 30, 2003. No individual customer or distributor represented more than 10% of our total net revenues or accounts receivable for fiscal years 2002 and 2001. Years Ended September 30, 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands, except for percentages) Gross margin Cost of net revenues: Products $ 17,837 $ 20,241 $ 33,240 Services 9,068 10,238 12,265 Total 26,905 30,479 45,505 Gross margin $ 88,990 $ 77,787 $ 61,862 Gross margin (as a percentage of related net revenue) Cost of net revenues: Products 21.2 % 24.5 % 42.3 % Services 28.6 39.8 42.7 Total 23.2 28.2 42.4 Gross margin 76.8 % 71.8 % 57.6 % Cost of Net Product Revenues. Cost of net product revenues decreased to $17.8 million in fiscal year 2003 from $20.2 million in fiscal year 2002 and $33.2 million in fiscal year 2001. Cost of net product revenues decreased as a percent of net product revenue to 21.2% in fiscal year 2003 from 24.5% in fiscal year 2002 and 42.3% in fiscal year 2001. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 was primarily the result of lower warranty, manufacturing and component costs. The decrease in fiscal year 2002 was primarily the result of lower excess inventory charges and manufacturing costs partially offset by increased warranty costs. Further, in fiscal year 2002, we unified our supply chain with a single contract manufacturer and, as result, have improved our manufacturing efficiencies, as well as realized lower component costs. Cost of Net Service Revenues. Cost of net service revenues decreased to $9.1 million in fiscal year 2003 from $10.2 million in fiscal year 2002 and $12.3 million in fiscal year 2001. Cost of net service revenues decreased as a percent of net service revenues to 28.6% in fiscal year 2003 from 39.8% in fiscal year 2002 and 42.7% in fiscal year 2001. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 was primarily due to a decrease in personnel related costs associated with a decline in service personnel headcount and related costs during the last quarter of fiscal year 2002. This decrease in fiscal year 2002 was primarily due to improved operational efficiencies and a decrease in headcount and related costs. 18 Table of Contents Years Ended September 30, 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands, except for percentages) Operating expenses Sales and marketing $ 53,458 $ 50,581 $ 50,767 Research and development 19,246 17,985 17,435 General and administrative 12,014 15,045 18,776 Restructuring charges 3,274 975 Amortization of unearned compensation 83 443 2,625 Total $ 84,801 $ 87,328 $ 90,578 Operating expenses (as a percentage of net revenue) Sales and marketing 46.1 % 46.7 % 47.3 % Research and development 16.6 16.6 16.2 General and administrative 10.4 13.9 17.5 Restructuring charges 3.0 0.9 Amortization of unearned compensation 0.1 0.5 2.5 Total 73.2 % 80.7 % 84.4 % Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of the salaries, commissions and related benefits of our sales and marketing staff, the costs of our marketing programs, including public relations, advertising and trade shows, and an allocation of our facilities and depreciation expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased 5.7% to $53.5 million in fiscal year 2003 from $50.6 million in fiscal year 2002. The increase in fiscal year 2003 related primarily to increased payroll and related personnel costs, and travel related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased to $50.6 million in fiscal year 2002 from $50.8 million in fiscal year 2001. The decrease in fiscal year 2002, compared to fiscal year 2001, was due to a decrease in trade show and promotional activities and decreased business travel expenses, partially offset by increased personnel costs as we continued to expand our international operations. We expect to continue to increase sales and marketing expenses in order to grow net revenues and expand our brand awareness. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of the salaries and related benefits for our product development personnel and an allocation of our facilities and depreciation expenses. Research and development expenses increased 7.0% to $19.2 million in fiscal year 2003, from $18.0 million in fiscal year 2002 and $17.4 million in fiscal year 2001. The increase in fiscal year 2003 was due to increased personnel related costs associated with an increase in headcount to 145 from 127 primarily as a result of the acquisition of substantially all the assets of uRoam and an increase in prototype expenses. The increase in fiscal year 2002 was due to increased personnel related costs and expenses related to the development of new products. We expect to continue to increase research and development expenses as our future success is dependent on the continued enhancement of our current products and our ability to develop new products that meet the changing needs of our customers. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of the salaries, benefits and related costs of our executive, finance, information technology, human resource and legal personnel, third party professional service fees, bad debt charges and an allocation of our facilities and depreciation expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased 20.1% to $12.0 million in fiscal year 2003 from $15.0 million in fiscal year 2002 and $18.8 million in fiscal year 2001. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 is primarily due to a decrease in professional services related to patent prosecution and other activities related to our intellectual property and lower bad debt charges. The decrease in fiscal year 2002 is primarily due to lower bad debt charges and lower facilities expenses resulting from the sublease of one of our buildings, partially offset by an increase in professional services related to patent prosecution and other activities related to our intellectual property. 19 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2002, we recorded a restructuring charge of $2.8 million in connection with managements decision to exit the cache appliance business. As a result of changes in the business, we wrote down certain assets, consolidated operations and terminated 47 employees throughout all divisions of F5 Networks. In July 2002, all identified employees had been notified and terminated resulting in an additional charge of $0.5 million related to employee separation costs. During the first fiscal quarter of 2001, we recorded a restructuring charge totaling $1.1 million in connection with our managements decision to bring operating expenses in line with the business revenue growth model. Accordingly, we terminated 96 employees throughout all divisions of F5 Networks. By the end of January 2001, all identified employees had been terminated. During the quarter ended March 31, 2001, we reversed $96,000 of previous estimates. As of September 30, 2001, substantially all of the restructuring charges accrued during the first quarter of 2001 had been paid. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10 K for a discussion of continuing restructuring liabilities. Amortization of Unearned Compensation. We have recorded a total of $8.3 million of stock compensation costs since our inception through September 30, 2003. These charges represent the difference, on the grant date, between the exercise price and the deemed fair value of certain stock options granted to our employees and outside directors. These options generally vest ratably over a four year period. We are amortizing these costs using an accelerated method as prescribed by Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, interpretation No. 28 (FIN No. 28) and recorded stock compensation charges of $0.1 million, $0.4 million, and $2.6 million for the fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Unamortized stock based compensation totaled $10,000 at September 30, 2003. Years Ended September 30, 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands, except for percentages) Other Income and Income Taxes Income (loss) from operations $ 4,189 $ (9,541 ) $ (28,716 ) Other income, net 751 1,420 2,021 Income (loss) before income taxes 4,940 (8,121 ) (26,695 ) Provision for income taxes 853 489 4,095 Net income (loss) $ 4,087 $ (8,610 ) $ (30,790 ) Other Income and Income Taxes (as percentage of revenue) Income (loss) from operations 3.6 % (8.8 )% (26.7 )% Other income, net 0.7 1.3 1.9 Income (loss) before income taxes 4.3 (7.5 ) (24.9 ) Provision for income taxes 0.8 0.5 3.8 Net income (loss) 3.5 % (8.0 )% (28.7 )% Other Income, Net. Other income, net, consists primarily of investment income and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income, net, decreased 47.1% to $0.8 million in fiscal year 2003 from $1.4 million in fiscal year 2002 and $2.0 million in fiscal year 2001. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 was primarily due to realized losses on sales of investments, declining interest rates and interest income, and an increase in foreign currency transaction losses. The decrease in fiscal year 2002 was related to declining interest rates and investment income. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $0.9 million, $0.5 million and $4.1 million for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The provision for income taxes represents foreign taxes related to our international operation, with the exception of fiscal year 2001, which includes a charge of $3.4 million to provide a full valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets. No federal or state income taxes were provided in fiscal years 2002 or 2003. 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations with our cash balances, cash generated from operations and proceeds from public offerings. Years Ended September 30, 2003 2002 2001 (in thousands) Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents $ 10,351 $ 20,801 $ 18,321 Cash provided by (used in) operating activities 14,610 9,505 (11,833 ) Cash used in investing activities (38,053 ) (12,663 ) (24,709 ) Cash provided by financing activities 12,833 5,483 36,343 We consider all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $10.4 million at the end of fiscal year 2003, compared to $20.8 million at the end of fiscal year 2002 and $18.3 million at the end of fiscal year 2001. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal year 2003 was $14.6 million compared to $9.5 million in fiscal year 2002 and cash used in operating activities was $11.8 million in fiscal year 2001. Cash provided by operating activities in fiscal years 2003 and 2002 resulted primarily from cash generated from net income, after adjusting for non cash charges, changes in operating assets and liabilities and an increase in deferred revenue due to an increase in the renewal of service and support contracts by existing customers. Cash used in operating activities in fiscal year 2001 resulted primarily from operating losses, partially offset by a decrease in net accounts receivable. Cash used in investing activities was $38.1 million for the fiscal year 2003, $12.7 million for fiscal year 2002 and $24.7 million for fiscal year 2001. The cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2003 was primarily the result of the $27.4 million used to acquire substantially all the assets of uRoam and purchase of investments and property and equipment partially offset by the sale of investments. Cash used in each of fiscal years 2002 and 2001 were due primarily to the purchase of investments and property and equipment, partially offset by the sale of investments. Cash provided by financing activities was $12.8 million for fiscal year 2003 compared to $5.5 million for fiscal year 2002 and $36.3 million for the fiscal year 2001. In fiscal years 2003 and 2002, our financing activities primarily related to cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and the purchase of common shares under our employee stock purchase plan. In fiscal year 2001, we also received $34.9 million related to the issuance of common stock and warrants to Nokia Finance International B.V. The warrants expired in January 2003 without being exercised. We expect that our existing cash balances and cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments As of September 30, 2003, our principal commitments consisted of obligations outstanding under operating leases. In April 2000, we amended and restated the lease agreement relating to two buildings for our corporate headquarters. The lease commenced in July 2000 on the first building; and the lease on the second building commenced in September 2000. The lease for both buildings expires in 2012 with an option for renewal. The lease for the second building has been fully subleased through 2012. We established a restricted escrow account in connection with this lease agreement. Under the term of the lease, a $6.0 million certificate of deposit is required through November 2012, unless the lease is terminated before then. This amount has 21 Table of Contents been included on our balance sheet as a component of restricted cash. Contractual obligations reflected in the following table are net of sublease income. Payments Due by Period Less than 1 3 4 5 After 5 Obligations Total 1 year Years Years Years (in thousands) Operating leases $ 18,474 $ 2,727 $ 4,306 $ 3,971 $ 7,470 Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue in accordance with the guidance provided under Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, and SOP No. 98 9 Modification of SOP No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists, and Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Staff Accounting Bulleting (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. We sell products through resellers, OEMs, and other channel partners, as well as directly to end users, under similar terms. We recognize product revenue upon shipment, net of estimated returns, provided that collection is determined to be probable and no significant obligations remain. Product revenues from OEM agreements are recognized based on reporting of sales from the OEM partner. Whenever a software license, hardware, installation and post contract customer support, or PCS, elements are combined into a package with a single bundled price, a portion of the sales price is allocated to each element of the bundled elements based on their respective fair values as determined when the individual elements are sold separately. Revenues from the license of software are recognized when the software has been shipped and the customer is obligated to pay for the software. When rights of return are present and we cannot estimate returns, we recognize revenue when such rights of return lapse. Revenues for PCS are recognized on a straight line basis over the service contract term. PCS includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, a limited period of telephone support, updates, and bug fixes. Installation revenue is recognized when the product has been installed at the customers site. Consulting services are customarily billed at fixed rates, plus out of pocket expenses, and revenues are recognized when the consulting has been completed. Training revenue is recognized when the training has been completed. Our ordinary payment terms to our domestic customers are net 30 days. Our ordinary payment terms to our international customers are net 30 to 90 days based on normal and customary trade practices in the individual markets. We have offered extended payment terms beyond ordinary terms to some customers. For these arrangements, revenue is recognized when payments become due. Reserve for Doubtful Accounts. Estimates are used in determining our allowance for doubtful accounts and are based on a percentage of our accounts receivable by aging category. In determining these percentages, we evaluate historical write offs, current trends in the credit quality of our customer base, as well as changes in the credit policies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require any collateral. If there is a deterioration of a major customers credit worthiness or actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be insufficient. 22 Table of Contents Reserve for Product Returns. Product returns are estimated based on historical experience by type of product and are recorded at the time revenues are recognized. In some instances, product revenue from distributors is subject to agreements allowing rights of return. Accordingly, we reduce recognized revenue for estimated future returns at the time revenue is recorded. When rights of return are present and we cannot estimate returns, revenue is recognized when such rights lapse. The estimates for returns are adjusted periodically based upon changes in historical rates of returns, inventory in the distribution channel, and other related factors. It is possible that these estimates will change in the future or that the actual amounts could vary from our estimates and result in reductions to recognized revenues. Reserve for Excess or Obsolete Inventory. We currently reserve for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory charges may be required. Reserve for Warranties. A warranty reserve is established based on our historical experience and an estimate of the amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of the balance sheet date. While we believe that our warranty reserve is adequate and that the judgment applied is appropriate, such amounts estimated to be due and payable could differ materially from what will actually transpire in the future. Income Tax Valuation Allowance. The Company has net deferred tax assets at September 30, 2003 totaling approximately $30.7 million, which are fully offset by a valuation allowance due to managements determination that the criteria for recognition have not been met. In the event management were to determine that the Company would be able to realize its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be made, increasing net income (or decreasing net loss) in the period in which such a determination was made. As of September 30, 2003, approximately $12.7 million of the valuation allowance related to the Companys net operating loss carry forwards is derived from the tax benefits of stock option deductions. At such time as the valuation allowance related to their deductions is released, the benefits will be credited to additional paid in capital. Purchase Price Allocation. During 2003, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of uRoam, Inc. for cash of $25 million. The Company also incurred $2.4 million of direct transaction costs for a total purchase price of $27.4 million. The total purchase price was allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value was recorded as goodwill. The fair value assigned to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed were based upon estimates and assumptions developed by management and other information compiled by management. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2003, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 150 Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liability and Equity (SFAS No. 150). SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for how companies classify and measure certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 150 is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2003, FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 149), which is generally effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003 and for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003. SFAS No. 149 clarifies under what circumstances a contract with an initial net 23 Table of Contents investment meets the characteristic of a derivative as discussed in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, when a derivative contains a financing component, amends the definition of an underlying to conform it to the language used in FASB interpretation No. 45, Guarantor Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others and amends certain other existing pronouncements. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN No. 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that either: (1) do not have sufficient equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support, or (2) the company will hold a significant variable interest in, or have significant involvement with, an existing variable interest entity. The adoption of this interpretation did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2002, FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN No. 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, which addresses the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under guarantees. FIN No. 45 also requires the recognition of a liability by a guarantor at the inception of certain guarantees that are entered into or modified after December 31, 2002. The additional disclosures required by FIN No. 45 have been included in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and its business. Our success depends on sales and continued innovation of our BIG IP product line For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003, we derived 82.8% of our product revenues from sales of our BIG IP product line. We expect to derive a significant portion of our net revenues from sales of our BIG IP products in the future. Implementation of our strategy depends upon BIG IP being able to solve critical network availability and performance problems of our customers. If BIG IP is unable to solve these problems for our customers, or if we are unable to sustain the high levels of innovation in BIG IPs product feature set needed to maintain leadership in what will continue to be a competitive market environment, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Our success depends on our timely development of new products and features and proper management of the timing of the life cycle of our products We expect the secure application traffic management market to be characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify and develop new products and new features for our existing products to meet the demands of these changes, and for those products and features to be accepted by our existing and target customers. If we are unable to identify, develop and deploy new products and new product features on a timely basis, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, our business and results of operations may be harmed. The current life cycle of our products is typically 12 to 24 months. The introduction of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales, increasing our inventory levels of older products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. We have also experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in developing and releasing new products and product enhancements. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, increased expenses and lower quarterly revenue than anticipated. Also, in the development of our products, we have experienced delays in the prototyping of our products, which in turn has led to delays in 24 Table of Contents product introductions. In addition, complexity and difficulties in managing product transitions at the end of life stage of a product can create excess inventory of components associated with the outgoing product that can lead to increased expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to compete effectively in the emerging secure application traffic management market The markets we serve are new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our principal competitors in the secure application traffic management market include Cisco Systems, Inc., Nortel Networks Corporation, Foundry Networks, Inc., NetScaler, Inc., Radware Ltd. and NetScreen Technologies, Inc. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter the traffic management market. In addition, larger companies with significant resources, brand recognition and sales channels may form alliances with or acquire competing traffic management solutions and emerge as significant competitors. Potential competitors may bundle their products or incorporate an Internet traffic management component into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Potential customers may also choose to purchase additional or larger servers instead of our products. Our quarterly and annual operating results are volatile and may cause our stock price to fluctuate Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and will vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. In particular, we anticipate that the size of customer orders may increase as we continue to focus on larger business accounts. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from just one account, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. In the past, a majority of our sales have been realized near the end of a quarter. Accordingly, a delay in an anticipated sale past the end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that year. Furthermore, we base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends and our expense levels are relatively fixed. Consequently, if revenue levels fall below our expectations, our net income will decrease because only a small portion of our operating expenses vary with our revenues. We believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in future quarters or years. Our failure to meet these expectations will likely harm the market price of our common stock. The average selling price of our products may decrease and our costs may increase, which may negatively impact gross profits We anticipate that the average selling prices of our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors. Therefore, in order to maintain our gross profits, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so will cause our net revenue and gross profits to decline, which will harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may experience substantial period to period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. It is difficult to predict our future operating results because we have an unpredictable sales cycle Our products have a lengthy sales cycle, which is difficult to predict. Historically, our sales cycle has ranged from approximately two to three months and has tended to lengthen as we have increasingly focused our sales efforts on the enterprise market. Also, as our distribution strategy has evolved into more of a channel model, utilizing value added resellers, distributors and systems integrators, the level of variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions has increased and made it more difficult to predict the timing of many of our sales transactions. Sales of our BIG IP and 3 DNS products require us to educate potential customers in their use and benefits. Sales of our products are subject to delays from the lengthy internal budgeting, approval and 25 Table of Contents competitive evaluation processes that large corporations and governmental entities may require. For example, customers frequently begin by evaluating our products on a limited basis and devote time and resources to testing our products before they decide whether or not to purchase. Customers may also defer orders as a result of anticipated releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or us. As a result, our products have an unpredictable sales cycle that contributes to the uncertainty of our future operating results. Our business may be harmed if our contract manufacturer is not able to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or if this single source of hardware assembly is lost or impaired We rely on a third party contract manufacturer to assemble our products. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware platforms to this contract manufacturer who assembles these hardware platforms to our specifications. We have experienced minor delays in shipments from contract manufacturers in the past. However, if we experience major delays in the future or other problems, such as inferior quality and insufficient quantity of product, any one or a combination of these factors may harm our business and results of operations. The inability of our contract manufacturer to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or the loss of our contract manufacturer may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders while we obtain a replacement manufacturer and may harm our business and results of operations. In particular, because we subcontract substantially all of our manufacturing to a single contract manufacturer, with whom we do not have a long term contract, any termination, loss or impairment in our arrangement with this single source of hardware assembly, or any impairment of their facilities or operations, would harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our raw material and component purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions. Any disruptions in product flow may limit our revenue, may harm our competitive position and may result in additional costs or cancellation of orders by our customers. Our business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware components from our third party sources We currently purchase several hardware components used in the assembly of our products from a number of single or limited sources. Lead times for these components vary significantly. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these hardware components, or the inability to procure a similar component from alternate sources at acceptable prices within a reasonable time, may delay assembly and sales of our products and, hence, our revenues, and may harm our business and results of operations. We may not adequately protect our intellectual property and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We are actively involved in disputes and licensing discussions with others regarding their claimed proprietary rights and cannot assure you that we will always successfully defend ourselves against such claims. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, or if we otherwise settle such claims, we could be compelled to pay damages or royalties and either obtain a license to those intellectual property rights or alter our products so that they no longer infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. In addition, we have initiated, and may in the future initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for 26 Table of Contents infringement of our proprietary rights, including infringement of a patent we hold on our cookie persistence technology, to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of our competitors. Any of these claims, whether claims that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others, or vice versa, with or without merit, may be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to cease using infringing technology, develop non infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Further, our license agreements typically require us to indemnify our customers and resellers for infringement actions related to our technology, which could cause us to become involved in infringement claims made against our customers or resellers. Any of the above described circumstances relating to intellectual property rights disputes could result in our business and results of operations being harmed. Future changes in financial accounting standards or our revenue recognition policies may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In particular, if we are required to record stock option grants as compensation expense on our income statement, our profitability may be reduced significantly. The current methodology for expensing such stock options is based on, among other things, the historical volatility of the underlying stock. Our stock price has been historically volatile. Therefore, the adoption of an accounting standard requiring companies to expense stock options would negatively impact our profitability and may adversely impact our stock price. In addition, the adoption of such a standard could limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Similarly, while we believe our current revenue recognition policies and practices are consistent with applicable accounting standards, current revenue recognition accounting standards, and accounting guidance with respect to such standards, are subject to change. Such changes could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices, and such changes could significantly reduce our future revenues and earnings, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may not be able to sustain or develop new distribution relationships and a reduction or delay in sales to a significant distribution partner could hurt our business Our sales strategy requires that we establish and maintain multiple distribution channels in the United States and internationally through leading industry resellers, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, systems integrators, Internet service providers and other channel partners. We have a limited number of agreements with companies in these channels, and we may not be able to increase our number of distribution relationships or maintain our existing relationships. If we are unable to establish and maintain our indirect sales channels, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In addition, one distributor of our products accounted for 12.6% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002, no single reseller or customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. A substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to this or any other key distribution partner could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Undetected software errors may harm our business and results of operations Software products frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced these errors in the past in connection with new products and product upgrades. We expect that these errors will be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant 27 Table of Contents customer relations problems. We may also be subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors. While we carry insurance policies covering this type of liability, these policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. A material product liability claim may harm our business and results of operations. Our products must successfully operate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of software errors, whether caused by our products or another vendors products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. The occurrence of any of these problems may harm our business and results of operations. Our expansion into international markets may not succeed We intend to continue expanding into international markets. International sales represented 34.9% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003, 32.2% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002 and 33.3% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2001. We have engaged sales personnel throughout Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Our continued growth will require further expansion of our international operations in the European, Asia Pacific and other markets. If we are unable to expand our international operations successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Such expansion may be more difficult or take longer than we anticipate, and we may not be able to successfully market, sell, deliver and support our products internationally. Our operating results are exposed to risks associated with international commerce As our international sales increase, our operating results become more exposed to international operating risks. These risks include risks related to potential recessions in economies outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates, managing foreign sales offices, regulatory, political, or economic conditions in specific countries, military conflict or terrorist activities, changes in laws and tariffs, inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in foreign countries, foreign regulatory requirements, and natural disasters. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, in fiscal year 2003, we derived 13.8% of our total revenue from the Japanese market and this revenue is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including the viability and success of our resellers and the strength of the Japanese economy, which has been weak in recent years. Acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of substantially all of the assets of uRoam, Inc., present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of the transaction With respect to our July 2003 acquisition of substantially all of the assets of uRoam, Inc., as well as any other future acquisitions we may undertake, we may find that the acquired assets do not further our business strategy as expected, or that we paid more than what the assets are later worth, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate future impairment charges. There may be difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and we may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business. In the case of the assets acquired from uRoam, Inc., because it was based in Northern California and because the employees we hired in connection with the acquisition were not relocated to Seattle, the above mentioned integration and personnel retention issues represent a particular risk to us. We may have difficulty in incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines. Our ongoing business and managements attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations. We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. We may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with the product quality, technology and other matters. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner, or to retain key personnel of uRoam, Inc. or any other acquired business, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for integrated traffic 28 Table of Contents management and security solutions and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. Our success depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified marketing and sales, professional services and customer support personnel Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, product development, sales, marketing and finance personnel, many of which may be difficult to replace. The complexity of our secure application traffic management products and their integration into existing networks and ongoing support, as well as the sophistication of our sales and marketing effort, requires us to retain highly trained professional services, customer support and sales personnel. In spite of the economic downturn, competition for qualified professional services, customer support and sales personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products. Our ability to retain and hire these personnel may be adversely affected by volatility or reductions in the price of our common stock, since these employees are generally granted stock options. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel, may harm our business and results of operations. We face litigation risks We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We believe that we have defenses in the lawsuits pending against us and we are vigorously contesting these allegations. Responding to the allegations has been, and probably will be, expensive and time consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution of the lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Anti takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company without further action by our stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Further, certain provisions of our bylaws, including a provision limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. Similarly, state anti takeover laws in the State of Washington related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a change of control of our company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. Our cash equivalents consist of high quality securities, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. The policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issue or issuer to a maximum of 20% of the total portfolio with the exception of treasury securities, commercial paper and money market funds, which are exempt from size limitation. The policy requires investments in securities that mature in two years or less, with the average maturity being one year or less. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if interest rates increase. A decrease of one percent in the average interest would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $0.7 million in our interest income. 29 Table of Contents Maturing in Three months Three months Greater than or less to one year one year Total Fair value (in thousands, except for percentages) September 30, 2003 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,972 $ $ $ 3,972 $ 3,972 Weighted average interest rate 1.1 % Included in short term investments $ 29,409 $ 5,118 $ $ 34,527 $ 34,527 Weighted average interest rates 1.6 % 2.1 % Included in long term investments $ $ $ 34,132 $ 34,132 $ 34,132 Weighted average interest rates 2.0 % September 30, 2002 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,582 $ $ $ 3,582 $ 3,582 Weighted average interest rate 1.9 % Included in short term investments $ $ 41,591 $ 17,941 $ 59,532 $ 59,532 Weighted average interest rates 2.2 % 3.3 % September 30, 2001 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 8,169 $ $ $ 8,169 $ 8,169 Weighted average interest rate 4.1 % Included in short term investments $ $ 33,500 $ 17,294 $ 50,794 $ 51,462 Weighted average interest rates 4.6 % 3.4 % Foreign Currency Risk. The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and as a result, we have not experienced significant foreign currency transaction gains and losses to date. While we have conducted some transactions in foreign currencies during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003 and expect to continue to do so, we do not anticipate that foreign currency transaction gains or losses will be significant at our current level of operations. However, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, they may become significant in the future. We have not engaged in foreign currency hedging to date. However, we may do so in the future. 30 Table of Contents 
 
