Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview We are a global provider of software and hardware products and services that help companies efficiently and securely manage their Internet traffic. Our products enhance the delivery, optimization and security of application traffic on Internet based networks. We market and sell our products primarily through indirect sales channels in North America, Europe, Japan and the Asia Pacific region. Enterprise customers (Fortune 1000 or Business Week Global 1000 companies) in financial services, manufacturing, transportation and mobile telecommunications industries continue to make up the largest percentage of our customer base. Our management monitors and analyzes a number of key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. Those indicators include: Revenues. The majority of our revenues are derived from sales of our core products; BIG IP Local Traffic Manager; BIG IP Global Traffic Manager; BIG IP ISP Traffic Manager; and FirePass SSL VPN servers. We also derive revenues from the sales of services including annual maintenance contracts, installation, training and consulting services. We carefully monitor the sales mix of our revenues within each reporting period. We believe customer acceptance rates of our new products and feature enhancements are key indicators of future trends. We also consider overall revenue concentration by customer and by geographic region as additional indicators of current and future trends. Cost of revenues and gross margins. We strive to control our cost of revenues and thereby maintain our gross margins. Significant items impacting cost of revenues are hardware costs paid to our contract manufacturers, third party software license fees, amortization of developed technology, personnel and overhead expenses. Our margins have remained relatively stable over the past two years, however factors such as sales price, product mix, inventory obsolescence, returns, component price increases, and warranty costs could significantly impact our gross margins from quarter to quarter and represent the significant indicators we monitor on a regular basis. Operating expenses. Operating expenses are substantially driven by personnel and related overhead expenses. Existing headcount and future hiring plans are the predominant factors in analyzing and forecasting future operating expense trends. Other significant operating expenses that we monitor include marketing and promotions, travel, professional fees, computer costs related to the development of new products, facilities and depreciation expenses. Liquidity and cash flows. Our financial condition remains strong with significant cash and investments and no long term debt. The significant increase in cash and investments was primarily due to the net proceeds of $113.6 million, from the sale of 5,175,000 shares of common stock in a public offering during the first quarter of fiscal 2004. Going forward, we believe the primary driver of our cash flows will be net income from operations. Capital expenditures during the fiscal year 2004 were comprised primarily of tenant improvements to our facilities, computer hardware and software for our information technology infrastructure and equipment related to new product introductions. During the fiscal year 2004, we acquired MagniFire for cash of $30.5 million of 18 Table of Contents which we have paid $29.2 million as of September 30, 2004 with the remainder expected to be paid in the upcoming fiscal year. We will continue to evaluate possible acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe are strategic, which may require the use of cash. Balance sheet. We view cash, short term and long term investments, deferred revenue, accounts receivable balances and days sales outstanding as important indicators of our financial health. Deferred revenues increased 47.1% to $28.1 million at the end of fiscal 2004, up from $19.1 million in the prior year. The increase was due to continued growth in the amount of annual maintenance contracts purchased on new products and maintenance renewal contracts related to our existing product installation base. Our days sales outstanding were 41 and 55 as of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decrease was due to improved collections and changes in the linearity of invoicing during the respective period. Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Years Ended September 30, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except for percentages) Net Revenues Products $ 126,169 $ 84,197 $ 82,566 Services 45,021 31,698 25,700 Total $ 171,190 $ 115,895 $ 108,266 Percentage of net revenues Products 73.7 % 72.6 % 76.3 % Services 26.3 27.4 23.7 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Net Revenues. Total net revenues increased 47.7% in fiscal year 2004 from fiscal year 2003, compared to an increase of 7.0% in fiscal year 2003 from fiscal year 2002. The improvement was due to increased demand for our application traffic management products and higher services revenues resulting from our increased installed base of products. During fiscal year 2004, each of our primary geographic regions reported higher revenues compared to the prior year period. International revenues represented 39.4%, 34.9% and 32.2% of net revenues in fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We expect international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues, although we cannot provide assurance that international revenues as a percentage of net revenues will remain at current levels. Net product revenues increased 49.8% in fiscal year 2004 and 2.0% in fiscal year 2003 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2004 was primarily due to absolute growth in the volume of product sales of our BIG IP product line as well as incremental revenues derived from sales of our recently introduced FirePass product line. Sales of our BIG IP Local Traffic Manager products represented 73.1%, 82.8%, and 84.1% of total product revenues in fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The decrease as a percentage of total sales was due to an improvement in sales of our other products, such as our FirePass products which represented 9.6% of product revenues in fiscal year 2004. We reported no revenue from sales of TrafficShield, our application security product recently acquired as part of our purchase of MagniFire. Net service revenues increased 42.0% in fiscal year 2004 compared to a 23.3% increase for fiscal year 2003 from the prior year, respectively. The continued increases in services revenue were due to an increase 19 Table of Contents in the renewal of service and support contracts by existing customers, as well as an increase in service and support contracts sold with sales of new products. Ingram Micro Inc., one of our domestic distributors, accounted for 19.1% and 12.6% of our total net revenues in fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. Ingram Micro accounted for 26.9% and 17.8% of our accounts receivable as of September 30, 2004, and 2003, respectively. During fiscal year 2002, no individual customer or distributor represented more than 10% of our total net revenues or accounts receivable for fiscal year 2002. Years Ended September 30, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except for percentages) Gross margin Cost of net revenues Products $ 28,404 $ 17,837 $ 20,241 Services 10,975 9,068 10,238 Total 39,379 26,905 30,479 Gross margin $ 131,811 $ 88,990 $ 77,787 Gross margin (as a percentage of related net revenue) Cost of net revenues Products 22.5 % 21.2 % 24.5 % Services 24.4 28.6 39.8 Total 23.0 23.2 28.2 Gross margin 77.0 % 76.8 % 71.8 % Cost of Net Product Revenues. Cost of net product revenues consist of finished products purchased from our contract manufacturers, manufacturing overhead, freight, warranty, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, and amortization expenses in connection with developed technology from recent acquisitions. Cost of net product revenues as a percentage of net product revenues increased to 22.5% in fiscal year 2004 as compared to 21.2% in fiscal year 2003. The increase was due to higher indirect product costs including amortization charges of our acquired technology and warranty costs associated with the growth in overall product installation base. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 was primarily the result of lower warranty, manufacturing and component costs as compared to fiscal year 2002. Cost of Net Service Revenues. Cost of net service revenues consist of the salaries and related benefits of our professional services staff, travel, facilities, and depreciation expenses. Cost of net service revenues as a percentage of net service revenues decreased to 24.4% in fiscal year 2004 as compared to 28.6% and 39.8% in fiscal years 2003 and 2002, respectively. The continued decrease is the result of leveraging our existing services operating infrastructure to support the increased net service revenue. The increase in absolute dollars in fiscal year 2004 is primarily due to increased salary and benefits attributed to growth in headcount. Professional services headcount at the end of fiscal year 2004 increased to 124 from 84 at the end of fiscal year 2003. Going forward, we expect to increase our cost of service revenues to support our expanded product lines and growing customer base. 20 Table of Contents Years Ended September 30, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except for percentages) Operating expenses Sales and marketing $ 65,378 $ 53,458 $ 50,581 Research and development 24,361 19,246 17,985 General and administrative 15,734 12,014 15,045 Restructuring charges 3,274 Amortization of unearned compensation 10 83 443 Total $ 105,483 $ 84,801 $ 87,328 Operating expenses (as a percentage of net revenue) Sales and marketing 38.2 % 46.1 % 46.7 % Research and development 14.2 16.6 16.6 General and administrative 9.2 10.4 13.9 Restructuring charges 3.0 Amortization of unearned compensation 0.1 0.1 0.5 Total 61.7 % 73.2 % 80.7 % Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of salaries, commissions and related benefits of our sales and marketing staff, the costs of our marketing programs, including public relations, advertising and trade shows, travel, facilities and depreciation expenses. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total net revenues is the result of leveraging our existing sales and distribution infrastructure to support the increased net revenues. In absolute dollars, sales and marketing expenses increased 22.3% in fiscal year 2004 and 5.7% in fiscal year 2003 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2004 was primarily due to higher commission, salary, and employee benefit related expenses. The increase in commission expenses is consistent with the increased revenue for the corresponding period. The increased salary and benefits were the result of growth in our employee headcount in fiscal year 2004. Sales and marketing headcount at the end of fiscal 2004 increased to 229 from 211 at the end of fiscal 2003. The increase in fiscal year 2003, compared to fiscal year 2002, related primarily to increased payroll and related personnel costs, and to a lesser extent higher travel costs associated with increased travel activities. We will strive to further leverage our sales costs as a percentage of net revenues, but expect to continue to increase sales and marketing expenses in absolute dollars in order to grow revenues and increase our market share. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist of the salaries and related benefits for our product development personnel, prototype materials and expenses related to the development of new and improved products, facilities and depreciation expenses. In absolute dollars, research and development expenses increased 26.6% in fiscal year 2004 and 7.0% in fiscal year 2003 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increases in fiscal years 2004 and 2003 were primarily due to higher salary and benefits costs attributed to an increase in headcount to 185 from 145 in fiscal year 2003 and 127 in fiscal 2002. The growth in employee headcount was primarily related to our acquisition of uRoam, Inc. in July of 2003 and the acquisition of MagniFire in May of 2004. We expect to continue to increase research and development expenses as our future success is dependent on the continued enhancement of our current products and our ability to develop new, technologically advanced products that meet the changing needs of our customers. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of the salaries, benefits and related costs of our executive, finance, information technology, human resource and legal personnel, third party professional service fees, bad debt charges, facilities, and depreciation expenses. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total net revenues is the result of leveraging our existing corporate infrastructure to support the increased net revenues. In absolute dollars, general and administrative expenses increased 31.0% in fiscal year 2004 and decreased 20.1% in fiscal year 2003 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2004 is due to increased 21 Table of Contents salary and benefit expenses, higher legal expenses related to a patent suit filed by us against a competitor that has since been settled, and increased professional services fees. General and administrative headcount at the end of fiscal 2004 increased to 75 from 67 at the end of fiscal 2003. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 is primarily due to lower bad debt charges and a decrease in professional services related to patent prosecution and other activities related to our intellectual property. Restructuring Charges. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2002, we recorded a restructuring charge of $2.8 million in connection with managements decision to exit the cache appliance business. As a result of changes in the business, we wrote down certain assets, consolidated operations and terminated 47 employees throughout all divisions of the Company. In July 2002, all identified employees had been notified and terminated resulting in an additional charge of $0.5 million related to employee separation costs. Amortization of Unearned Compensation. We have recorded $8.3 million of stock compensation costs since our inception through September 30, 2004. These compensation costs represented the difference between the exercise price and the deemed fair value of certain stock options granted to our employees and outside directors. These stock options generally vested ratably over a four year period. We amortized these compensation costs using an accelerated method as prescribed by FASB interpretation No. 28 (FIN No. 28). As of December 31, 2003, the balance of unearned compensation was fully amortized. Years Ended September 30, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands, except for percentages) Other Income and Income Taxes Income (loss) from operations $ 26,328 $ 4,189 $ (9,541 ) Other income, net 2,731 751 1,420 Income (loss) before income taxes 29,059 4,940 (8,121 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (3,894 ) 853 489 Net income (loss) $ 32,953 $ 4,087 $ (8,610 ) Other Income and Income Taxes (as percentage of revenue) Income (loss) from operations 15.4 % 3.6 % (8.8 )% Other income, net 1.6 0.7 1.3 Income (loss) before income taxes 17.0 4.3 (7.5 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (2.3 ) 0.8 0.5 Net income (loss) 19.2 % 3.5 % (8.0 )% Other Income, Net. Other income, net, consists primarily of income, realized gains and losses of sales of investments, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income, net, increased 263.6% in fiscal year 2004 and decreased 47.1% in fiscal year 2003 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2004 was due to interest income earned on proceeds from our public offering completed in November of 2003. The decrease in fiscal year 2003 was due to realized losses on sales of investments, declining interest rates and interest income, and an increase in foreign currency transaction losses. Provision for Income Taxes. The primary difference between the statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate was due to previous unrecognized deferred tax assets. SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109, provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization is more likely than not. Based on available evidence, which includes our historical operating performance and the reported cumulative net losses in all prior years, we had provided for a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets during fiscal years 2003 and 2002. Based upon our operating performance in fiscal year 2004 and expected future taxable income, we determined that our U.S. deferred tax assets were more likely than not to be realizable. Therefore, the valuation allowance was reversed and as a result we realized an income tax benefit of $7.3 million. The credit from the release of the valuation allowance was partially offset by actual U.S. and international tax expenses resulting in a net benefit for income taxes of $3.9 million in fiscal year 22 Table of Contents 2004. The provision for income taxes in fiscal years 2003 and 2002 consisted primarily of taxes payable in foreign jurisdictions. We currently expect our effective tax rate for fiscal 2005 to be approximately 37%, however our effective tax rate may fluctuate based on a number of factors including variations in estimated taxable income in our geographic locations, changes in the valuation of our net deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations with our cash balances, cash generated from operations and proceeds from public offerings. Years Ended September 30, 2004 2003 2002 (In thousands) Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents and investments $ 222,293 $ 79,010 $ 81,679 Cash provided by operating activities 40,590 14,610 9,505 Cash used in investing activities (164,713 ) (38,053 ) (12,663 ) Cash provided by financing activities 138,468 12,833 5,483 Cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and long term investments totaled $222.3 million as of September 30, 2004 compared to $79.0 million as of September 30, 2003, representing an increase of $143.3 million. The increase was due to the net proceeds of $113.6 million from the sale of 5,175,000 shares of common stock in a public offering in November 2003. In addition, cash flow from operations and cash from employee stock option exercises contributed significantly to the overall increase since the beginning of our fiscal year. The overall increase in cash for the year was partially offset by net cash used for the acquisition of MagniFire of $29.2 million as of September 30, 2004. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal year 2004 was $40.6 million compared to $14.6 million in fiscal year 2003 and cash provided in operating activities was $9.5 million in fiscal year 2002. Cash provided by operating activities in fiscal years 2004 and 2003 resulted primarily from cash generated from net income, after adjusting for non cash charges, changes in operating assets and liabilities and an increase in advance payments from customers. Advanced payments from customers increased due to higher sales of service maintenance contracts, which are typically billed at the beginning of the contract term and recognized as revenue over the service period. In fiscal year 2002, cash provided by operating activities, after adjusting for non cash charges, resulted primarily from changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by net losses for the period. Cash used in investing activities was $164.7 million for the fiscal year 2004, $38.1 million for fiscal year 2003 and $12.7 million for fiscal year 2002. The cash used in fiscal year 2004 was due to the purchase of investments, primarily made possible by the proceeds of our public offering, and the purchase of property and equipment and the acquisition of MagniFire, partially offset by the sale of investments. The cash used in fiscal year 2003 was primarily the result of the cash used to acquire substantially all the assets of uRoam and the purchase of investments and property and equipment partially offset by the sale of investments. The cash used in the fiscal year 2002 was primarily due to the purchase of investments and property and equipment partially offset by the sale of investments. Cash provided by financing activities was $138.5 million for fiscal year 2004 compared to $12.8 million for fiscal year 2003 and $5.5 million for the fiscal year 2002. During the fiscal year 2004, our financing activities consisted of $113.6 million net proceeds received from a public stock offering as well as cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. In fiscal years 2003 and 2002, our financing activities primarily related to cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and the purchase of common shares under our employee stock purchase plan. 23 Table of Contents We expect that our existing cash and investment balances and cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments as of September 30, 2004: Payment Obligations by Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 6,740 $ 6,908 $ 6,730 $ 6,225 $ 6,065 $ 16,892 $ 49,560 Purchase obligations 6,376 6,376 Total $ 13,116 $ 6,908 $ 6,730 $ 6,225 $ 6,065 $ 16,892 $ 55,936 We lease our facilities under operating leases that expire at various dates through 2012. Purchase obligations are comprised of purchase commitments with our contract manufacturers. The agreement with our primary contract manufacturer allows them to procure component inventory on our behalf based on our production forecast. We are obligated to purchase component inventory that the contract manufacturer procures in accordance with the forecast, unless cancellation is given within applicable lead times. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue in accordance with the guidance provided under Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, and SOP No. 98 9 Modification of SOP No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists, and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, and SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We sell products through distributors, resellers, and directly to end users. We recognize product revenue upon shipment, net of estimated returns, provided that collection is determined to be probable and no significant obligations remain. In certain regions where we do not have the ability to reasonably estimate returns, revenue is recognized upon sale to the end user. In this situation, we receive a sales report from the channel partner to determine when the sales transaction to the end user has occurred. Payment terms to domestic customers are generally net 30 days. Payment terms to international customers range from net 30 to 90 days based on normal and customary trade practices in the individual markets. We have offered extended payment terms ranging from three to six months to certain customers, in which case, revenue is recognized when payments are made. Whenever a software license, hardware, installation and post contract customer support (PCS) elements are combined into a package with a single bundled price, a portion of the sales price is allocated to each element of the bundled package based on their respective fair values as determined when the individual elements are sold separately. Revenues from the license of software are recognized when the software has been shipped and the customer is obligated to pay for the software. When rights of return are 24 Table of Contents present and we cannot estimate returns, we recognize revenue when such rights of return lapse. Revenues for PCS are recognized on a straight line basis over the service contract term. PCS includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, a limited period of telephone support, updates, and bug fixes. Installation revenue is recognized when the product has been installed at the customers site. Consulting services are customarily billed at fixed rates, plus out of pocket expenses, and revenues are recognized when the consulting has been completed. Training revenue is recognized when the training has been completed. Reserve for Doubtful Accounts. Estimates are used in determining our allowance for doubtful accounts and are based upon an assessment of selected accounts and as a percentage of our remaining accounts receivable by aging category. In determining these percentages, we evaluate historical write offs, current trends in the credit quality of our customer base, as well as changes in the credit policies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally do not require any collateral. If there is deterioration of a major customers credit worthiness or actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient. Reserve for Product Returns. In some instances, product revenue from distributors is subject to agreements allowing rights of return. Product returns are estimated based on historical experience and are recorded at the time revenues are recognized. Accordingly, we reduce recognized revenue for estimated future returns at the time revenue is recorded. When rights of return are present and we cannot estimate returns, revenue is recognized when such rights lapse. The estimates for returns are adjusted periodically based upon changes in historical rates of returns, inventory in the distribution channel and other related factors. It is possible that these estimates will change in the future or that the actual amounts could vary from our estimates. Reserve for Warranties. A warranty reserve is established based on our historical experience and an estimate of the amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of the balance sheet date. While we believe that our warranty reserve is adequate and that the judgment applied is appropriate, such amounts estimated to be due and payable could differ materially from what will actually transpire in the future. Accounting for Income Taxes. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes pursuant to SFAS 109. Accordingly, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, including assessing the risks associated with tax audits, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. SFAS 109 provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that those deferred tax assets will be realized. Management reviews deferred tax assets periodically for recoverability and makes estimates and judgments regarding the expected geographic sources of taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to their estimated realizable value. We determined that the valuation allowance relating to net operating loss carryovers in the United Kingdom was still necessary and maintained a valuation allowance of approximately $2.6 million as of September 30, 2004. However, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we reversed the valuation allowance on our U.S deferred tax assets and as a result realized a benefit of $7.3 million. This credit was partially offset by actual tax expenses of $3.4 million resulting in a net benefit for income taxes of $3.9 million for the fiscal year 2004. Factors such as our cumulative profitably in the U.S. and our projected future taxable income were the key criteria in deciding to release the valuation allowance. If the estimates and assumptions used in our determination change in the future, we could be required to revise our estimates of the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and adjust our provisions for additional income taxes. 25 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. EITF 03 1 provides guidance on other than temporary impairment models for marketable debt and equity securities accounted for under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and SFAS No. 124, Accounting for Certain Investments Held by Not for Profit Organizations, and non marketable equity securities accounted for under the cost method. The EITF developed a basic three step model to evaluate whether an investment is other than temporarily impaired. On September 30, 2004, the FASB approved the issuance of FASB Staff Position (FSP) EITF 03 1 1, which delays the effective date until additional guidance is issued for the application of the recognition and measurement provisions of EITF 03 1 to investments in securities that are impaired. We do not expect the adoption of EITF 03 1 to have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. On March 31, 2004, the FASB issued an Exposure Draft, Share Based Payment An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 and 95. The proposed Statement addresses the accounting for transactions in which an enterprise receives employee services in exchange for (a) equity instruments of the enterprise or (b) liabilities that are based on the fair value of the enterprises equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of such equity instruments. The proposed Statement would eliminate the ability to account for share based compensation transactions using APB No. 25, and generally would require instead that such transactions be accounted for using a fair value based method. As proposed, companies would be required to recognize an expense for compensation cost related to share based payment arrangements including stock options and employee stock purchase plans. As proposed, the new rules would be applied on a modified prospective basis as defined in the Exposure Draft, and would be effective for public companies for periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating option valuation methodologies and assumptions in light of the evolving accounting standards related to employee stock options. Current estimates of option values using the Black Scholes method may not be indicative of results from valuation methodologies ultimately adopted in the final rules. In September 2004, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 04 8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share. EITF 04 8 requires that all issued securities that have embedded conversion features that are contingently exercisable upon the occurrence of a market price condition should be in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, regardless of whether the market price trigger has been met. EITF 04 8 will become effective in the period when the proposed amendment to SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share, becomes effective. We currently have no contingently convertible debt and the adoption of EITF 04 8 is not expected to materially impact our diluted earnings per share. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and its business. Our success depends on sales and continued innovation of our BIG IP product line For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, we derived 73.1% of our product revenues from sales of our BIG IP Local Traffic Manager product line. We expect to derive a significant portion of our net revenues from sales of our BIG IP products in the future. Implementation of our strategy depends upon BIG IP being able to solve critical network availability and performance problems of our customers. If BIG IP is unable to solve these problems for our customers, or if we are unable to sustain the high levels of innovation in BIG IPs product feature set needed to maintain leadership in what will continue to be a competitive market environment, our business and results of operations will be harmed. 26 Table of Contents Our success depends on our timely development of new products and features, market acceptance of new product offerings and proper management of the timing of the life cycle of our products We expect the secure application traffic management market to be characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify and develop new products and new features for our existing products to meet the demands of these changes, and for those products and features to be accepted by our existing and target customers. If we are unable to identify, develop and deploy new products and new product features on a timely basis, our business and results of operations may be harmed. In September 2004, we announced the release of our next generation BIG IP product featuring the Traffic Management Operating System, or TM/ OS. This major new version of BIG IP represents the culmination of over two years of research and development efforts and our continued success depends significantly on the acceptance of the new hardware and software platforms associated with this release by our existing and target customers. The current life cycle of our products is typically 12 to 24 months. The introduction of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales, increasing our inventory levels of older products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. We have also experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in developing and releasing new products and product enhancements. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, increased expenses and lower quarterly revenue than anticipated. Also, in the development of our products, we have experienced delays in the prototyping of our products, which in turn has led to delays in product introductions. In addition, complexity and difficulties in managing product transitions at the end of life stage of a product can create excess inventory of components associated with the outgoing product that can lead to increased expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to compete effectively in the emerging secure application traffic management market The markets we serve are new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our principal competitors in the secure application traffic management market include Cisco Systems, Inc., Nortel Networks Corporation, Foundry Networks, Inc., NetScaler, Inc., Redline Networks, Inc., Radware Ltd. and Juniper Networks, Inc. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter the secure application traffic management market. In addition, larger companies with significant resources, brand recognition and sales channels may form alliances with or acquire competing traffic management or security solutions and emerge as significant competitors. Potential competitors may bundle their products or incorporate an Internet traffic management or security component into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Our quarterly and annual operating results are volatile and may cause our stock price to fluctuate Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and will vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. In particular, we anticipate that the size of customer orders may increase as we continue to focus on larger business accounts. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from just one account, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. In the past, a majority of our sales have been realized near the end of a quarter. Accordingly, a delay in an anticipated sale past the end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that year. Additionally, we have exposure to the credit risks of some of our customers and sub tenants. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there 27 Table of Contents can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks adequately. We monitor individual payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit the total credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for potential losses. If there is a deterioration of a sub tenants or major customers creditworthiness or actual defaults are higher than expected, future resulting losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Further, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in future quarters or years. Our failure to meet these expectations will likely harm the market price of our common stock. The average selling price of our products may decrease and our costs may increase, which may negatively impact gross profits We anticipate that the average selling prices of our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors. Therefore, in order to maintain our gross profits, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so will cause our net revenue and gross profits to decline, which will harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may experience substantial period to period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. It is difficult to predict our future operating results because we have an unpredictable sales cycle Our products have a lengthy sales cycle, which is difficult to predict. Historically, our sales cycle has ranged from approximately two to three months and has tended to lengthen as we have increasingly focused our sales efforts on the enterprise market. Also, as our distribution strategy has evolved into more of a channel model, utilizing value added resellers, distributors and systems integrators, the level of variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions has increased and made it more difficult to predict the timing of many of our sales transactions. Sales of our BIG IP, FirePass and TrafficShield products require us to educate potential customers in their use and benefits. Sales of our products are subject to delays from the lengthy internal budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that large corporations and governmental entities may require. For example, customers frequently begin by evaluating our products on a limited basis and devote time and resources to testing our products before they decide whether or not to purchase. Customers may also defer orders as a result of anticipated releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or us. As a result, our products have an unpredictable sales cycle that contributes to the uncertainty of our future operating results. Our business may be harmed if our contract manufacturer is not able to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or if this single source of hardware assembly is lost or impaired We rely on a third party contract manufacturers to assemble our products. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware platforms to contract manufacturers who assemble these hardware platforms to our specifications. We have experienced minor delays in shipments from contract manufacturers in the past. However, if we experience major delays in the future or other problems, such as inferior quality and insufficient quantity of product, any one or a combination of these factors may harm our business and results of operations. The inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or the loss of our contract manufacturer may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders while we obtain a replacement manufacturer and may harm our business and results of operations. In particular, because we subcontract substantially all of our manufacturing to a single contract manufacturer, with whom we do not have a long term contract, any termination, loss or impairment in our arrangement with this single source of hardware assembly, or any impairment of their facilities or operations, would harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. 28 Table of Contents If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our raw material and component purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions. Any disruptions in product flow may limit our revenue, may harm our competitive position and may result in additional costs or cancellation of orders by our customers. Our business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware components from our third party sources We currently purchase several hardware components used in the assembly of our products from a number of single or limited sources. Lead times for these components vary significantly. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these hardware components, or the inability to procure a similar component from alternate sources at acceptable prices within a reasonable time, may delay assembly and sales of our products and, hence, our revenues, and may harm our business and results of operations. We may not adequately protect our intellectual property and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in disputes and licensing discussions with others regarding their claimed proprietary rights and cannot assure you that we will always successfully defend ourselves against such claims. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, or if we otherwise settle such claims, we could be compelled to pay damages or royalties and either obtain a license to those intellectual property rights or alter our products so that they no longer infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. In addition, we have initiated, and may in the future initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights, including infringement of a patent we hold on our cookie persistence technology, to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of our competitors. Any of these claims, whether claims that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others, or vice versa, with or without merit, may be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to cease using infringing technology, develop non infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Further, our license agreements typically require us to indemnify our customers and resellers for infringement actions related to our technology, which could cause us to become involved in infringement claims made against our customers or resellers. Any of the above described circumstances relating to intellectual property rights disputes could result in our business and results of operations being harmed. Future changes in financial accounting standards or our revenue recognition policies may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 29 Table of Contents In particular, if we are required to record stock option grants as compensation expense on our income statement, our profitability may be reduced significantly. The current methodology for expensing such stock options is based on, among other things, the historical volatility of the underlying stock. Our stock price has been historically volatile. Therefore, the adoption of an accounting standard requiring companies to expense stock options would negatively impact our profitability and may adversely impact our stock price. In addition, the adoption of such a standard could limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Similarly, while we believe our current revenue recognition policies and practices are consistent with applicable accounting standards, current revenue recognition accounting standards, and accounting guidance with respect to such standards, are subject to change. Such changes could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices, and such changes could significantly reduce our future revenues and earnings, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 regarding internal control attestation and any inability to do so may negatively impact the report on our financial statements to be provided by our independent auditors We are in the process of implementing the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 which requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include an assertion in our annual report as to the effectiveness of our controls. Subsequently, our independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, will be required to attest to whether our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects and separately report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting as of September 30, 2005. We are in the process of performing the system and process documentation, evaluation and testing required for management to make this assessment and for the auditors to provide its attestation report. We have not completed this process or its assessment, and this process will require significant amounts of management time and resources. We expect to comply with the reporting disclosure requirements of Section 404 by our year ending September 30, 2005, including remediation of any deficiencies identified in our existing internal controls. However, if we are not able to remediate any identified deficiencies in a timely fashion or to otherwise comply with the Section 404 requirements for the year ending September 30, 2005, we will not be able to give assurance regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls and the attestation report on our evaluation of our internal controls provided by our independent auditors may be negatively affected. We may not be able to sustain or develop new distribution relationships and a reduction or delay in sales to a significant distribution partner could hurt our business Our sales strategy requires that we establish and maintain multiple distribution channels in the United States and internationally through leading industry resellers, systems integrators, Internet service providers and other channel partners. We have a limited number of agreements with companies in these channels, and we may not be able to increase our number of distribution relationships or maintain our existing relationships. If we are unable to establish and maintain our indirect sales channels, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In addition, one domestic distributor of our products accounted for 19.1% and 12.6% of our total net revenue for the fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. A substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to this or any other key distribution partner could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Undetected software errors may harm our business and results of operations Software products frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced these errors in the past in connection with new products and product upgrades. We expect that these errors will be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. We may also be subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors. While we carry insurance policies covering this type of liability, these policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. A material product liability claim may harm our business and results of operations. Our products must successfully operate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of software errors, whether caused by our products or another vendors products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. The occurrence of any of these problems may harm our business and results of operations. Our expansion into international markets may not succeed We intend to continue expanding into international markets. International sales represented 39.4% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, 34.9% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003 and 32.2% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002. We have engaged sales personnel throughout Japan, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Our continued growth will require further expansion of our international operations in the Japanese, European, Asia Pacific and other markets. If we are unable to expand our international operations successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Such expansion may be more difficult or take longer than we anticipate, and we may not be able to successfully market, sell, deliver and support our products internationally. Our operating results are exposed to risks associated with international commerce As our international sales increase, our operating results become more exposed to international operating risks. These risks include risks related to potential recessions in economies outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates, managing foreign sales offices, regulatory, political, or economic conditions in specific countries, military conflict or terrorist activities, changes in laws and tariffs, inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in foreign countries, foreign regulatory requirements, and natural disasters. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, in fiscal year 2004, we derived 15.7% of our total revenue from the Japanese market. This revenue is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including the viability and success of our resellers and the strength of the Japanese, which has been weak in recent years. Acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of MagniFire, present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of the transaction With respect to our May 2004 acquisition of all of the capital stock of MagniFire, as well as any other future acquisitions we may undertake, we may find that the acquired assets do not further our business strategy as expected, or that we paid more than what the assets are later worth, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate future impairment charges. There may be difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and we may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business. In the case of the acquisition of MagniFire, because it was based in Israel and because the employees we hired in connection with the acquisition were not relocated to Seattle, the above mentioned integration and personnel retention issues represent a particular risk to us. We may have difficulty in incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines. Our ongoing business and managements attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or 31 Table of Contents integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations. We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. We may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with the product quality, technology and other matters. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner, or to retain key personnel of MagniFire or any other acquired business, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for integrated traffic management and security solutions and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. In particular, in connection with our acquisition of MagniFire, we initiated a significant change in our organizational structure, forming a new security business unit headed by one of our most senior executives. The aim of this new division, which includes our FirePass and TrafficShield products, is to provide focus and expertise across research and development, marketing, sales and services to position our business for success and leadership in application security; however, we may find that this organizational realignment does not achieve our desired goals with respect to the application security market and that the shift in resources away from our core application traffic management market may result in a weakening of our competitive position in the latter market and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our overall business results. Our success depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified marketing and sales, professional services and customer support personnel Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, product development, sales, marketing and finance personnel, many of which may be difficult to replace. The complexity of our secure application traffic management products and their integration into existing networks and ongoing support, as well as the sophistication of our sales and marketing effort, requires us to retain highly trained professional services, customer support and sales personnel. In spite of the economic downturn, competition for qualified professional services, customer support and sales personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products. Our ability to retain and hire these personnel may be adversely affected by volatility or reductions in the price of our common stock, since these employees are generally granted stock options. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel, may harm our business and results of operations. We face litigation risks We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We believe that we have defenses in the lawsuits pending against us and we are vigorously contesting these allegations. Responding to the allegations has been, and will likely continue to be, expensive and time consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution of the lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Anti takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company without further action by our stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Further, certain provisions of our bylaws, including a provision limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of 32 Table of Contents stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. Similarly, state anti takeover laws in the State of Washington related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a change of control of our company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. Our cash equivalents consist of high quality securities, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. The policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issue or issuer to a maximum of 5% of the total portfolio with the exception of U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper and money market funds, which are exempt from size limitation. The policy requires investments in securities that mature in three years or less, with the average maturity being no greater than one and a half years. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if interest rates increase. A decrease of one percent in the average interest rate would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $1.8 million in our interest income. Maturing in Three Months Three Months Greater Than or Less to One Year One Year Total Fair Value (In thousands, except for percentages) September 30, 2004 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 16,363 $ $ $ 16,363 $ 16,363 Weighted average interest rate 1.1 % Included in short term investments $ 64,410 $ 51,190 $ $ 115,600 $ 115,600 Weighted average interest rates 1.3 % 1.8 % Included in long term investments $ $ $ 81,792 $ 81,792 $ 81,792 Weighted average interest rates 2.0 % September 30, 2003 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,972 $ $ $ 3,972 $ 3,972 Weighted average interest rate 1.1 % Included in short term investments $ 29,409 $ 5,118 $ 34,527 $ 34,527 Weighted average interest rates 1.6 % 2.1 % Included in long term investments $ $ $ 34,132 $ 34,132 $ 34,132 Weighted average interest rates 2.0 % September 30, 2002 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,582 $ $ $ 3,582 $ 3,582 Weighted average interest rate 1.9 % Included in short term investments $ $ 41,591 $ 17,941 $ 59,532 $ 59,532 Weighted average interest rates 2.2 % 3.3 % Foreign Currency Risk. The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and as a result, we have not experienced significant foreign currency transaction gains and losses to date. While we have conducted some transactions in foreign currencies during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004 and expect to continue to do so, we do not anticipate that foreign currency transaction gains or losses will be significant at our current level of operations. However, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, transaction gains or losses may become significant in the future. We have not engaged in foreign currency hedging to date. However, we may do so in the future. 33 
 
