Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview We are a global provider of software and hardware products and services that help companies efficiently and securely manage their Internet traffic. Our products enhance the delivery, optimization and security of application traffic on Internet based networks. We market and sell our products primarily through indirect sales channels in the Americas (primarily the United States); Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Japan and the Asia Pacific region. Enterprise customers (Fortune 1000 or Business Week Global 1000 companies) in financial services, transportation, government and telecommunications industries continue to make up the largest percentage of our customer base. During the fiscal year 2005, we announced plans to acquire all of the common stock of Swan Labs, Inc. for cash of $43.0 million. The merger closed on October 4, 2005, subsequent to our year end. As a result of the transaction, we acquired all the assets of Swan Labs, including its principal products, WANJet and WebAccelerator. WANJet devices are deployed in data centers and branch offices to speed up file transfers, email, and the performance of any IP based application that runs over a Wide Area Network, or WAN. WebAccelerator works in concert with WANJet to speed up the performance of IP based enterprise applications running over WANs. The acquisition of Swan Labs expands our product line and gives us broader access to the WAN optimization and web acceleration markets. Our management monitors and analyzes a number of key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance. Those indicators include: Revenues. The majority of our revenues are derived from sales of our core products; BIG IP Local Traffic Manager; BIG IP Global Traffic Manager; BIG IP ISP Traffic Manager; TrafficShield Application Firewall, and FirePass SSL VPN servers. We also derive revenues from the sales of services including annual maintenance contracts, installation, training and consulting services. We carefully monitor the sales mix of our revenues within each reporting period. We believe customer acceptance rates of our new products and feature enhancements are key indicators 19 Table of Contents of future trends. We also consider overall revenue concentration by customer and by geographic region as additional indicators of current and future trends. Cost of revenues and gross margins. We strive to control our cost of revenues and thereby maintain our gross margins. Significant items impacting cost of revenues are hardware costs paid to our contract manufacturers, third party software license fees, and amortization of developed technology, personnel and overhead expenses. Our margins have remained relatively stable over the past two years; however factors such as sales price, product mix, inventory obsolescence, returns, component price increases, and warranty costs could significantly impact our gross margins from quarter to quarter and represent the significant indicators we monitor on a regular basis. Operating expenses. Operating expenses are substantially driven by personnel and related overhead expenses. Existing headcount and future hiring plans are the predominant factors in analyzing and forecasting future operating expense trends. Other significant operating expenses that we monitor include marketing and promotions, travel, professional fees, computer costs related to the development of new products, facilities and depreciation expenses. Liquidity and cash flows. Our financial condition remains strong with significant cash and investments and no long term debt. The increase in cash and investments during the fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to net income from operations, with operating activities providing cash of $85.0 million. Capital expenditures during the fiscal year 2005 were comprised primarily of tenant improvements and information technology infrastructure and equipment to support the growth of our core business activities. On October 4, 2005, subsequent to our year end, we acquired all of the common stock of Swan Labs, Inc. for cash of $43.0 million. We will continue to evaluate possible acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe are strategic, which may require the use of cash. Balance sheet. We view cash, short term and long term investments, deferred revenue, accounts receivable balances and days sales outstanding as important indicators of our financial health. Deferred revenues continued to increase due to the growth in the amount of annual maintenance contracts purchased on new products and maintenance renewal contracts related to our existing product installation base. Our days sales outstanding for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was 47. We expect to maintain this metric in the mid to high 40s range going forward. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue in accordance with the guidance provided under Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, and SOP No. 98 9 Modification of SOP No. 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists, and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, and SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We sell products through distributors, resellers, and directly to end users. We recognize product revenue upon shipment, net of estimated returns, provided that collection is determined to be probable and no significant obligations remain. In certain regions where we do not have the ability to reasonably estimate returns, revenue is recognized upon sale to the end user. In this situation, we receive a sales 20 Table of Contents report from the channel partner to determine when the sales transaction to the end user has occurred. Payment terms to domestic customers are generally net 30 days. Payment terms to international customers range from net 30 to 90 days based on normal and customary trade practices in the individual markets. We have offered extended payment terms ranging from three to six months to certain customers, in which case, revenue is recognized when payments are made. Whenever a software license, hardware, installation and post contract customer support (PCS) elements are combined into a package with a single bundled price, a portion of the sales price is allocated to each element of the bundled package based on their respective fair values as determined when the individual elements are sold separately. Revenues from the license of software are recognized when the software has been shipped and the customer is obligated to pay for the software. When rights of return are present and we cannot estimate returns, we recognize revenue when such rights of return lapse. Revenues for PCS are recognized on a straight line basis over the service contract term. PCS includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, a limited period of telephone support, updates, and bug fixes. Installation revenue is recognized when the product has been installed at the customers site. Consulting services are customarily billed at fixed rates, plus out of pocket expenses, and revenues are recognized when the consulting has been completed. Training revenue is recognized when the training has been completed. Reserve for Doubtful Accounts. Estimates are used in determining our allowance for doubtful accounts and are based upon an assessment of selected accounts and as a percentage of our remaining accounts receivable by aging category. In determining these percentages, we evaluate historical write offs, current trends in the credit quality of our customer base, as well as changes in the credit policies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and do not require any collateral. If there is deterioration of a major customers credit worthiness or actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient. Reserve for Product Returns. In some instances, product revenue from distributors is subject to agreements allowing rights of return. Product returns are estimated based on historical experience and are recorded at the time revenues are recognized. Accordingly, we reduce recognized revenue for estimated future returns at the time revenue is recorded. When rights of return are present and we cannot estimate returns, revenue is recognized when such rights lapse. The estimates for returns are adjusted periodically based upon changes in historical rates of returns, inventory in the distribution channel and other related factors. It is possible that these estimates will change in the future or that the actual amounts could vary from our estimates. Reserve for Warranties. A warranty reserve is established based on our historical experience and an estimate of the amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of the balance sheet date. While we believe that our warranty reserve is adequate and that the judgment applied is appropriate, such amounts estimated to be due and payable could differ materially from what will actually transpire in the future. Accounting for Income Taxes. We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes as set forth by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, or SFAS 109. Accordingly, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, including assessing the risks associated with tax audits, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Due to the evolving nature and complexity of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Stock based compensation. We adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) on July 1, 2005, and as a result recognized $4.6 million of expense related to stock based compensation charges included in operating expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Prior to July 1, 2005, we accounted for 21 Table of Contents share based payments under the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25), and related Interpretations, as permitted by FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (FAS 123). In accordance with APB 25 no compensation cost was required to be recognized for options granted that had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. We adopted FAS 123R using the modified prospective transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost recognized in the fiscal year 2005 includes: a) compensation cost for all share based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of July 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of FAS 123, and b) compensation cost for all share based payments granted subsequent to July 1, 2005, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of FAS 123R. The results for the prior periods have not been restated. Effective July 1, 2005 we adopted the straight line attribution method for recognizing compensation expense. Previously under the disclosure only provisions of SFAS 123, the Company used the accelerated method of expense recognition pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 28, Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans (FIN 28). For all unvested options outstanding as of July 1, 2005, the previously measured but unrecognized compensation expense, based on the fair value at the original grant date, will be recognized on an accelerated basis over the remaining vesting period. For share based payments granted subsequent to July 1, 2005, compensation expense, based on the fair value on the date of grant, will be recognized on a straight line basis over the vesting period. As of September 30, 2005, there was $32.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, the majority of which will be recognized ratably over the next two years. Going forward, stock compensation expenses may increase as we issue additional equity based awards to continue to attract and retain key employees. In addition, the Company recently modified the method in which it issues incentive awards to its employees through stock based compensation. In prior years, stock based compensation consisted only of stock options. Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company began to grant restricted stock unit awards instead of stock options. The value of restricted stock units is determined using the intrinsic value method, which in this case, is based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant. Alternatively, in determining the fair value of stock options, we use the Black Scholes option pricing model that employs the following key assumptions. Expected volatility is based on the annualized daily historical volatility of our stock price, over the expected life of the option. Expected term of the option is based on historical employee stock option exercise behavior, the vesting terms of the respective option and a contractual life of ten years. Our stock price volatility and option lives involve managements best estimates at that time, both of which impact the fair value of the option calculated under the Black Scholes methodology and, ultimately, the expense that will be recognized over the life of the option. SFAS 123R also requires that we recognize compensation expense for only the portion of options or stock units that are expected to vest. Therefore, we apply estimated forfeiture rates that are derived from historical employee termination behavior. Our estimated forfeiture rate in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 is 5%. If the actual number of forfeitures differs from those estimated by management, additional adjustments to compensation expense may be required in future periods. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Years Ended September 30, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands, except for percentages) Net Revenues Products $ 219,603 $ 126,169 $ 84,197 Services 61,807 45,021 31,698 Total $ 281,410 $ 171,190 $ 115,895 Percentage of net revenues Products 78.0 % 73.7 % 72.6 % Services 22.0 26.3 27.4 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Net Revenues. Total net revenues increased 64.4% in fiscal year 2005 from fiscal year 2004, compared to an increase of 47.7% in fiscal year 2004 from fiscal year 2003. The improvement was due to increased demand for our application delivery networking products and higher services revenues resulting from our increased installed base of products. During fiscal year 2005, each of our primary geographic regions reported higher revenues compared to the prior year period. International revenues represented 40.5%, 39.4% and 34.9% of net revenues in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We expect international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues, although we cannot provide assurance that international revenues as a percentage of net revenues will remain at current levels. Net product revenues increased 74.1% in fiscal year 2005 and 49.8% in fiscal year 2004 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2005 was primarily due to absolute growth in the volume of product sales of our BIG IP product line as well as incremental revenues derived from sales of our FirePass and TrafficShield product lines. Sales of our BIG IP family of application delivery networking products represented 89.1%, 90.3%, and 99.3% of total product revenues in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decrease as a percentage of total sales was due to an improvement in sales of our other products, such as our FirePass products which represented 9.7% of product revenues in fiscal year 2005. Net service revenues increased 37.3% in fiscal year 2005 compared to a 42.0% increase for fiscal year 2004 from the prior year, respectively. The decrease in the growth rate was due to an increase in the amount of support services provided by our channel partners. The increase of services revenues in absolute dollars was the result of a growing customer base and continued growth in service renewals from existing customers. 23 Table of Contents Ingram Micro Inc., one of our domestic distributors, accounted for 18.6%, 19.1%, and 12.6% of our total net revenues in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Ingram Micro accounted for 26.2%, 26.9% and 17.8% of our accounts receivable as of September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Years Ended September 30, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands, except for percentages) Cost of net revenues and Gross margin Products $ 48,985 $ 28,404 $ 17,837 Services 16,172 10,975 9,068 Total 65,157 39,379 26,905 Gross margin $ 216,253 $ 131,811 $ 88,990 Cost of net revenues and Gross margin (as a percentage of related net revenue) Products 22.3 % 22.5 % 21.2 % Services 26.2 24.4 28.6 Total 23.2 23.0 23.2 Gross margin 76.8 % 77.0 % 76.8 % Cost of Net Product Revenues. Cost of net product revenues consist of finished products purchased from our contract manufacturers, manufacturing overhead, freight, warranty, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, and amortization expenses in connection with developed technology from acquisitions. Cost of net product revenues as a percentage of net product revenues remained relatively consistent at 22.3% in fiscal year 2005 as compared to 22.5% and 21.2% in fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars is consistent with the increase in product revenues for the corresponding period. Higher indirect product costs including amortization charges of our acquired technology and warranty costs associated with the growth in overall product installation base contributed to the percentage increase as compared to fiscal year 2003. Cost of Net Service Revenues. Cost of net service revenues consist of the salaries and related benefits of our professional services staff, travel, facilities, and depreciation expenses. Cost of net service revenues as a percentage of net service revenues increased to 26.2% in fiscal year 2005 as compared to 24.4% and 28.6% in fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2005 is primarily due to increased salary and benefits attributed to growth in headcount. Professional services headcount at the end of fiscal year 2005 increased to 147 from 124 at the end of fiscal year 2004. Going forward, we expect to continue to increase our cost of service revenues to support our expanded product lines and growing customer base. Years Ended September 30, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands, except for percentages) Operating expenses Sales and marketing $ 89,253 $ 65,378 $ 53,504 Research and development 31,349 24,361 19,260 General and administrative 23,760 15,744 12,037 Total $ 144,362 $ 105,483 $ 84,801 Operating expenses (as a percentage of net revenue) Sales and marketing 31.7 % 38.2 % 46.1 % Research and development 11.1 14.2 16.6 General and administrative 8.4 9.2 10.4 Total 51.3 % 61.7 % 73.2 % 24 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of salaries, commissions and related benefits of our sales and marketing staff, the costs of our marketing programs, including public relations, advertising and trade shows, travel, facilities and depreciation expenses. Stock based compensation charges for awards to our sales and marketing personnel are included beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total net revenues is the result of leveraging our existing sales and distribution infrastructure to support the increased net revenues. In absolute dollars, sales and marketing expenses increased 36.5% in fiscal year 2005 and 22.3% in fiscal year 2004 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increases were primarily due to higher commission and personnel costs, consistent with the increased revenue and headcount for the corresponding period. Sales and marketing headcount at the end of fiscal 2005 increased to 331 from 229 at the end of fiscal 2004 and 211 at the end of fiscal 2003. Stock based compensation charges of $1.8 million contributed to the overall increase in fiscal year 2005. We expect to continue to increase sales and marketing expenses in absolute dollars in order to grow revenues and increase our market share. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist of the salaries and related benefits for our product development personnel, prototype materials and expenses related to the development of new and improved products, facilities and depreciation expenses. In absolute dollars, research and development expenses increased 28.7% in fiscal year 2005 and 26.6% in fiscal year 2004 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increases in fiscal years 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to higher salary and benefits costs attributed to an increase in headcount to 217 in fiscal year 2005 from 185 in fiscal year 2004 and 145 in fiscal 2003. The growth in employee headcount was primarily related to enhancement of our current products and our ability to develop new, technologically advanced products that meet the changing needs of our customers. Stock based compensation charges of $1.3 million contributed to the overall increase in fiscal year 2005. We expect to continue to increase research and development expenses as our future success is dependent on the continued development of our products. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of the salaries, benefits and related costs of our executive, finance, information technology, human resource and legal personnel, third party professional service fees, bad debt charges, facilities, and depreciation expenses. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total net revenues is the result of leveraging our existing corporate infrastructure to support the increased net revenues. In absolute dollars, general and administrative expenses increased 51.0% in fiscal year 2005 and increased 31.0% in fiscal year 2004 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2005 is due to increased salary and benefit expenses of $2.6 million and higher professional service fees of $1.9 million. The increase in personnel costs is consistent with the growth in headcount. General and administrative headcount at the end of fiscal 2005 increased to 97 from 75 at the end of fiscal 2004. Stock based compensation charges of $1.1 million contributed to the overall increase in fiscal year 2005. The increase 25 Table of Contents in general and administrative expenses is expected to remain at these increased levels as the Company continues to build its infrastructure to support the worldwide growth of our business. Years Ended September 30, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands, except for percentages) Other Income and Income Taxes Income from operations $ 71,891 $ 26,328 $ 4,189 Other income, net 8,076 2,731 751 Income before income taxes 79,967 29,059 4,940 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 28,234 (3,894 ) 853 Net income $ 51,733 $ 32,953 $ 4,087 Other Income and Income Taxes (as percentage of revenue) Income from operations 25.5 % 15.4 % 3.6 % Other income, net 2.9 1.6 0.7 Income before income taxes 28.4 17.0 4.3 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 10.0 (2.3 ) 0.8 Net income 18.4 % 19.2 % 3.5 % Other Income, Net. Other income, net, consists of interest income and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income, net, increased 195.7% in fiscal year 2005 and increased 263.6% in fiscal year 2004 as compared to the previous fiscal year, respectively. The significant increase was due to a combination of higher yields and increased investment balances. The increased investment balances are the result of cash provided from operating and financing activities during the fiscal years 2005 and fiscal year 2004. Net proceeds of $113.6 million received from the sale of common stock in a public offering completed in November of 2003 was the most significant addition to our investment balances. Provision for Income Taxes. We recorded a 35% provision for income taxes for the fiscal year 2005. As of fiscal year end 2005 we do not have a valuation allowance on any of our deferred tax assets in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate because we believe that the assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making this determination we have considered projected future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the appropriateness of a valuation allowance. Our net deferred tax assets as of fiscal year end 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $40.1 million, $31.4 million and $0 million, respectively. Our world wide effective tax rate may fluctuate based on a number of factors including variations in projected taxable income in our geographic locations, changes in the valuation of our net deferred tax assets, resolution of potential exposures, introduction of new accounting standards or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. We have recorded liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and income tax positions we have taken that could be challenged by taxing authorities. The ultimate resolution of these potential exposures may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded which could result in an adjustment to our future tax expense. In fiscal year 2004, the primary difference between the statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate was due to previously unrecognized deferred tax assets which were recognized. SFAS 109, provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization is more likely than not. Based on available evidence, which includes our historical operating performance and the reported cumulative net losses in all prior years, we had provided for a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets at the end of fiscal year 2003. Based upon our operating performance in fiscal year 2004 and projected future taxable income, we determined that our U.S. deferred tax assets were more likely than not to be realizable. Therefore, the valuation allowance was reversed and as a result we realized an income tax benefit of $7.3 million. The credit from the release of the valuation allowance was partially offset by actual U.S. and international tax 26 Table of Contents expenses resulting in a net benefit for income taxes of $3.9 million in fiscal year 2004. The provision for income taxes in fiscal year 2003 consisted primarily of taxes payable in foreign jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations with our cash balances, cash generated from operations and proceeds from public offerings. Years Ended September 30, 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents and investments $ 365,015 $ 222,293 $ 79,010 Cash provided by operating activities 84,987 40,590 14,610 Cash used in investing activities (126,760 ) (164,713 ) (38,053 ) Cash provided by financing activities 68,867 138,468 12,833 Cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and long term investments totaled $365.0 million as of September 30, 2005 compared to $222.3 million as of September 30, 2004, representing an increase of $142.7 million. The increase was due to the cash flow from operations and cash from employee stock option exercises. In fiscal year 2004, overall cash and investments increased $143.3 million compared to the fiscal year 2003. The increase was primarily due to the net proceeds of $113.6 million from the sale of 5,175,000 shares of common stock in a public offering completed in November 2003. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal year 2005 was $85.0 million compared to $40.6 million in fiscal year 2004 and $14.6 million in fiscal year 2003. Cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from cash generated from net income, after adjusting for non cash charges, changes in operating assets and liabilities and an increase in advance payments from customers. Cash used in investing activities was $126.8 million for the fiscal year 2005, $164.7 million for fiscal year 2004 and $38.1 million for fiscal year 2003. The cash used in the fiscal year 2005 was primarily due to the purchase of investments and property and equipment partially offset by the sale of investments. The cash used in fiscal year 2004 was due to the purchase of investments, primarily made possible by the proceeds of our public offering, and the purchase of property and equipment and the acquisition of MagniFire, partially offset by the sale of investments. The cash used in fiscal year 2003 was primarily the result of the cash used to acquire substantially all the assets of uRoam and the purchase of investments and property and equipment partially offset by the sale of investments. Cash provided by financing activities was $68.9 million for fiscal year 2005 compared to $138.5 million for fiscal year 2004 and $12.8 million for the fiscal year 2003. In fiscal years 2005 and 2003, our financing activities consisted of cash proceeds received from the exercise of stock options and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. During the fiscal year 2004, our financing activities included $113.6 million of net proceeds received from a public stock offering as well as cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. We expect that our existing cash and investment balances and cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. 27 Table of Contents Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual payment obligations and commitments as of September 30, 2005: Payment Obligations by Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total (In thousands) Operating leases $ 7,647 $ 7,341 $ 6,700 $ 6,853 $ 6,831 $ 11,915 $ 47,287 Purchase obligations 8,322 8,322 Total $ 15,969 $ 7,341 $ 6,700 $ 6,853 $ 6,831 $ 11,915 $ 55,609 We lease our facilities under operating leases that expire at various dates through 2014. Purchase obligations are comprised of purchase commitments with our contract manufacturers. The agreement with our primary contract manufacturer allows them to procure component inventory on our behalf based on our production forecast. We are obligated to purchase component inventory that the contract manufacturer procures in accordance with the forecast, unless cancellation is given within applicable lead times. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. EITF 03 1 provides guidance on other than temporary impairment models for marketable debt and equity securities accounted for under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and SFAS No. 124, Accounting for Certain Investments Held by Not for Profit Organizations, and non marketable equity securities accounted for under the cost method. The EITF developed a basic three step model to evaluate whether an investment is other than temporarily impaired. On September 30, 2004, the FASB approved the issuance of FASB Staff Position (FSP) EITF 03 1 1, which delays the effective date until additional guidance is issued for the application of the recognition and measurement provisions of EITF 03 1 to investments in securities that are impaired. In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments. This FSP addresses the determination as to when an investment is considered impaired, whether the impairment is other than temporary and the measurement of an impairment loss. This statement specifically nullifies the requirements of paragraph 10 18 of EITF 03 1 and references existing other than temporary impairment guidance. The guidance under this FSP is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005 and the Company continued to apply relevant other than temporary guidance as provided for in FSP EITF 03 1 1 during fiscal 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1 to have a material effect on the Companys results of operations or financial condition. In May of 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections A Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. The Statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. This Statement requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and its business. Our success depends on our timely development of new products and features, market acceptance of new product offerings and proper management of the timing of the life cycle of our products We expect the application delivery networking market to be characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify and develop new products and new features for our existing products to meet the demands of these changes, and for those products and features to be accepted by our existing and target customers. If we are unable to identify, develop and deploy new products and new product features on a timely basis, our business and results of operations may be harmed. In September 2004, we announced the release of our next generation BIG IP product featuring the Traffic Management Operating System, or TMOS. This major new version of BIG IP represented the culmination of over two years of research and development efforts. TMOS is specifically designed to facilitate the development and integration of application delivery functions as modules that can be added to BIG IPs core functionality to keep pace with rapidly evolving customer needs. We currently offer software modules as add ons for this product and our continued success depends significantly on our ability to integrate new modules and functionality onto this platform and the acceptance of the new hardware and software platforms associated with this release by our existing and target customers. The current life cycle of our products is typically 12 to 24 months. The introduction of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales, increasing our inventory levels of older products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. We have also experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in developing and releasing new products and product enhancements. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, increased expenses and lower quarterly revenue than anticipated. Also, in the development of our products, we have experienced delays in the prototyping of our products, which in turn has led to delays in product introductions. In addition, complexity and difficulties in managing product transitions at the end of life stage of a product can create excess inventory of components associated with the outgoing product that can lead to increased expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm our business and operating results. Our success depends on sales and continued innovation of our BIG IP product lines For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, we derived 89.1% of our product revenues from sales of our BIG IP family of application delivery networking product lines. We expect to derive a significant portion of our net revenues from sales of our BIG IP products in the future. Implementation of our strategy depends upon BIG IP being able to solve critical network availability and performance problems of our customers. If BIG IP is unable to solve these problems for our customers or if we are unable to sustain the high levels of innovation in BIG IPs product feature set needed to maintain leadership in what will continue to be a competitive market environment, our business and results of operations will be harmed. We may not be able to compete effectively in the emerging application delivery networking market The markets we serve are new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our principal competitors in the application delivery networking market include Cisco Systems, Inc., Nortel Networks Corporation, Foundry Networks, Inc., Citrix Systems, Inc., Radware Ltd. and Juniper Networks, Inc. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new 29 Table of Contents participants enter our market. In addition, larger companies with significant resources, brand recognition and sales channels may form alliances with or acquire competing application delivery networking solutions and emerge as significant competitors. Potential competitors may bundle their products or incorporate an Internet traffic management or security component into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Our quarterly and annual operating results are volatile and may cause our stock price to fluctuate Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and will vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. In particular, we anticipate that the size of customer orders may increase as we continue to focus on larger business accounts. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from just one account, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. In the past, a majority of our sales have been realized near the end of a quarter. Accordingly, a delay in an anticipated sale past the end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that year. Additionally, we have exposure to the credit risks of some of our customers and sub tenants. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks adequately. We monitor individual payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit the total credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for potential losses. If there is a deterioration of a sub tenants or major customers creditworthiness or actual defaults are higher than expected future resulting losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Further, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in future quarters or years. Our failure to meet these expectations will likely harm the market price of our common stock. The average selling price of our products may decrease and our costs may increase, which may negatively impact gross profits It is possible that the average selling prices of our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors. Therefore, in order to maintain our gross profits, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so will cause our net revenue and gross profits to decline, which will harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may experience substantial period to period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. It is difficult to predict our future operating results because we have an unpredictable sales cycle Our products have a lengthy sales cycle, which is difficult to predict. Historically, our sales cycle has ranged from approximately two to three months and has tended to lengthen as we have increasingly focused our sales efforts on the enterprise market. Also, as our distribution strategy has evolved into more of a channel model, utilizing value added resellers, distributors and systems integrators, the level of variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions has increased and made it more difficult to predict the timing of many of our sales transactions. Sales of our products require us to educate potential customers in their use and benefits. Sales of our products are subject to delays from the lengthy internal budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that large corporations and governmental entities may require. For example, customers frequently begin by evaluating our products on a limited basis and devote time and resources to testing our products before they decide whether or not to purchase. Customers may also defer orders as a result of anticipated releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or us. As a result, our products have an unpredictable sales cycle that contributes to the uncertainty of our future operating results. 30 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed if our contract manufacturers are not able to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or if a single source of hardware assembly is lost or impaired We rely on third party contract manufacturers to assemble our products. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware platforms to contract manufacturers who assemble these hardware platforms to our specifications. We have experienced minor delays in shipments from contract manufacturers in the past. However, if we experience major delays in the future or other problems, such as inferior quality and insufficient quantity of product, any one or a combination of these factors may harm our business and results of operations. The inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or the loss of our contract manufacturer may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders while we obtain a replacement manufacturer and may harm our business and results of operations. In particular, because we subcontract substantially all of our manufacturing to a single contract manufacturer, with whom we do not have a long term contract, any termination, loss or impairment in our arrangement with this single source of hardware assembly, or any impairment of their facilities or operations, would harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our raw material and component purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality control functions. Any disruptions in product flow may limit our revenue, may harm our competitive position and may result in additional costs or cancellation of orders by our customers. Our business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware components from our third party sources We currently purchase several hardware components used in the assembly of our products from a number of single or limited sources. Lead times for these components vary significantly. The unavailability of suitable components, any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these hardware components, or the inability to procure a similar component from alternate sources at acceptable prices within a reasonable time, may delay assembly and sales of our products and, hence, our revenues, and may harm our business and results of operations. We may not adequately protect our intellectual property and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in disputes and licensing discussions with others regarding their claimed proprietary rights and cannot assure you that we will always successfully defend ourselves against such claims. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, or if we otherwise settle such claims, we could be compelled to pay damages or royalties and either obtain a license to those intellectual property rights or alter our products so that they no longer infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. In addition, we have initiated, and may in the future initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights, to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of our competitors. Any of these claims, whether claims that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others, or vice versa, with or without merit, may be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to cease using infringing technology, develop non infringing 31 Table of Contents technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Further, our license agreements typically require us to indemnify our customers, distributors and resellers for infringement actions related to our technology, which could cause us to become involved in infringement claims made against our customers, distributors or resellers. Any of the above described circumstances relating to intellectual property rights disputes could result in our business and results of operations being harmed. Many of our products include intellectual property licensed from third parties. In the future, it may be necessary to renew licenses for third party intellectual property or obtain new licenses for other technology. These third party licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses, or litigation regarding the interpretation or enforcement of license rights and related intellectual property issues, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we license some third party intellectual property on a non exclusive basis and this may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in our products. We may not be able to sustain or develop new distribution relationships and a reduction or delay in sales to a significant distribution partner could hurt our business Our sales strategy requires that we establish and maintain multiple distribution channels in the United States and internationally through leading industry resellers, systems integrators, Internet service providers and other channel partners. We have a limited number of agreements with companies in these channels, and we may not be able to increase our number of distribution relationships or maintain our existing relationships. If we are unable to establish or maintain our indirect sales channels, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In addition, one domestic distributor of our products accounted for 18.6% and 19.1% of our total net revenue for the fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. A substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to this or any other key distribution partner could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Undetected software errors may harm our business and results of operations Software products frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced these errors in the past in connection with new products and product upgrades. We expect that these errors will be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. We may also be subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors. While we carry insurance policies covering this type of liability, these policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. A material product liability claim may harm our business and results of operations. Our products must successfully operate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of software errors, whether caused by our products or another vendors products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. The occurrence of any of these problems may harm our business and results of operations. Our operating results are exposed to risks associated with international commerce As our international sales increase, our operating results become more exposed to international operating risks. These risks include risks related to potential recessions in economies outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates, managing foreign sales offices, regulatory, political, or economic conditions in specific countries, military conflict or terrorist activities, changes in laws and tariffs, inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in foreign countries, foreign regulatory requirements, and natural disasters. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to continue expanding into international markets. International sales represented 40.5% and 39.4% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In particular, in fiscal 32 Table of Contents year 2005, we derived 13.7% of our total revenue from the Japanese market. This revenue is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including the viability and success of our resellers and the strength of the Japanese economy. Changes in governmental regulations could negatively affect our revenues Our products are subject to various regulations promulgated by the United States and various foreign governments including, but not limited to, environmental regulations and regulations implementing export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. Changes in governmental regulation and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals, permits or registrations could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues, business and operations. Acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Swan Labs, present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of the transaction With respect to our acquisitions, as well as any other future acquisitions we may undertake, we may find that the acquired assets do not further our business strategy as expected, or that we paid more than what the assets are later worth, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate future impairment charges. There may be difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and we may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business. We may have difficulty in incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines. Our ongoing business and managements attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations. We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. We may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with the product quality, technology and other matters. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner, or to retain key personnel of any acquired business, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for integrated traffic management and security solutions and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. Our success depends on our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified sales and marketing, operations, product development and professional services personnel Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, product development, sales, marketing and finance personnel, many of whom may be difficult to replace. The complexity of our application delivery networking products and their integration into existing networks and ongoing support, as well as the sophistication of our sales and marketing effort, requires us to retain highly trained professional services, customer support and sales personnel. Competition for qualified professional services, customer support and sales personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products. Our ability to retain and hire these personnel may be adversely affected by volatility or reductions in the price of our common stock, since these employees are generally granted stock options. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel, may harm our business and results of operations. We face litigation risks We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to the 33 Table of Contents allegations has been, and will likely continue to be, expensive and time consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution of the lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Anti takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company without further action by our stockholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Further, certain provisions of our bylaws, including a provision limiting the ability of stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide for a staggered board, which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors. Similarly, state anti takeover laws in the State of Washington related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a change of control of our company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk. Our cash equivalents consist of high quality securities, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. The policy limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issue or issuer to a maximum of 5% of the total portfolio with the exception of U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper and money market funds, which are exempt from size limitation. The policy requires investments in securities that mature in three years or less, with the average maturity being no greater than one and a half years. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if interest rates increase. A decrease of one percent in the average interest rate would have resulted in a decrease of approximately $2.6 million in our interest income for the fiscal year 2005. Maturing in Three Months Three Months Greater Than or Less to One Year One Year Total Fair Value (In thousands, except for percentages) September 30, 2005 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 298 $ $ $ 298 $ 298 Weighted average interest rate 2.5 % Included in short term investments $ 89,015 $ 95,299 $ $ 184,314 $ 184,314 Weighted average interest rates 2.6 % 2.3 % Included in long term investments $ $ $ 128,834 $ 128,834 $ 128,834 Weighted average interest rates 3.1 % September 30, 2004 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 16,363 $ $ $ 16,363 $ 16,363 Weighted average interest rate 1.1 % Included in short term investments $ 64,410 $ 51,190 $ $ 115,600 $ 115,600 Weighted average interest rates 1.3 % 1.8 % Included in long term investments $ $ $ 81,792 $ 81,792 $ 81,792 Weighted average interest rates 2.0 % 34 Table of Contents Maturing in Three Months Three Months Greater Than or Less to One Year One Year Total Fair Value (In thousands, except for percentages) September 30, 2003 Included in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,972 $ $ $ 3,972 $ 3,972 Weighted average interest rate 1.1 % Included in short term investments $ 29,409 $ 5,118 $ 34,527 $ 34,527 Weighted average interest rates 1.6 % 2.1 % Included in long term investments $ $ $ 34,132 $ 34,132 $ 34,132 Weighted average interest rates 2.0 % Foreign Currency Risk. The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and as a result, we have not experienced significant foreign currency transaction gains and losses to date. While we have conducted some transactions in foreign currencies during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and expect to continue to do so, we do not anticipate that foreign currency transaction gains or losses will be significant at our current level of operations. However, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, transaction gains or losses may become significant in the future. We have not engaged in foreign currency hedging to date. However, we may do so in the future. 35 Table of Contents 
 
