FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20030723162354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. (Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.)
     This Current Report on Form 8-K of Citrix Systems, Inc. (the "Company") is intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" but is instead furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure" in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216. The following information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     On July 23, 2003, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Joe Horine, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 267-3042 or joseph.horine@citrix.com Eric Armstrong, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 267-2977 or eric.armstrong@citrix.com
For media inquiries, contact:
Jeff Lilly, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 267-2886 or jeff.lilly@citrix.com
For investor inquiries, contact:
  Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS), the global leader in access infrastructure solutions, today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.
July 23, 2003
FINANCIAL RESULTS
     Revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2003 were $143.0 million compared to $117.5 million in the same period of the prior year. Net income was $29.3 million for the second quarter of 2003, or $0.17 per share, as compared to $10.8 million or $0.06 per share in the comparable period of the prior year. Net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, was $31.1 million for the second quarter of 2003, or $0.18 per share, as compared to $13.5 million, or $0.07 per share in the comparable period of the prior year.
     "We're pleased with the solid Q2 performance we are reporting today," said Mark Templeton, president and chief executive officer for Citrix. "Customer demand was very strong, especially with growth in larger projects and Subscription Advantage. These factors contributed to the strength in our top-line and a sharp increase in deferred revenue. With the four new products we shipped this quarter, Citrix now offers a full integrated suite of access infrastructure for the on-demand enterprises."
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
CITRIX METAFRAME ACCESS SUITE: FOUR NEW PRODUCTS SHIPPED
     During the second quarter, Citrix shipped four new products in the Citrix MetaFrame Access Suite. A fifth product, Citrix MetaFrame Password Manager, is currently expected to ship around the end of Q3. The product strategy that Citrix unveiled in March is designed to drive growth by leveraging the company's market-leading position in access infrastructure and expanding into adjacent access-related markets.
 
CUSTOMER HIGHLIGHTS
     Citrix closed several key deals in the second quarter including Banque Populaire BRED, Beverly Enterprises, Kaiser Permanente, and others.
     Banque Populaire BRED, the largest of 30 regional retail and commercial banks within the Banque Populaire Group, recently expanded its implementation of Citrix MetaFrame XP Presentation Server to nearly 3,000 users in order to deliver critical applications to its 300 branch locations throughout France. With Citrix access infrastructure, Banque Populaire BRED connects its employees to the on-demand enterprise to ensure consistent customer service throughout the organization.
     Beverly Enterprises is one of the leading providers of healthcare services to the elderly in the United States, with more than 428 skilled nursing facilities, 26 assisted living centers, and 30 home care and hospice centers in 32 states and the District of Columbia. The company will be using Citrix MetaFrame Secure Access Manager and Citrix MetaFrame XP Presentation Server to provide 7,000 employees with access to clinical applications and information, helping to ensure the highest level of service and care for patients and their families.
     Citrix signed an agreement with Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest not-for-profit healthcare organization, to extend its use of Citrix MetaFrame XP Presentation Server. Citrix access infrastructure will work with EPIC, the company's automated medical records (AMR) database to help caregivers access and update patient information.
ALLIANCE HIGHLIGHTS
 
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
     Citrix management offers the following guidance for the quarter ending September 30, 2003:
     The above statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
     Citrix will host a conference call today at 4:45 p.m. EDT to discuss its financial results, quarterly highlights, and business outlook. The call will include a slide presentation, and participants are encouraged to listen to and view the presentation via webcast at www.citrix.com/investors.
     The conference call may also be accessed by dialing: (888) 799-0519 or (706) 634-0155, using passcode: CITRIX. A replay of the webcast can be viewed by visiting the Investor Relations section of the Citrix corporate website at http://www.citrix.com/investors through August 7, 2003. In addition, an audio replay of the conference call will be available through July 30, 2003, by dialing (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (passcode required: 1532838).
ABOUT CITRIX
     Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS) is the global leader in access infrastructure solutions for businesses, government agencies, and educational institutions. The most trusted name in enterprise access, the Citrix MetaFrame Access Suite enables people to easily and securely access the on-demand enterprise, from anywhere, anytime, using any device over any connection. Nearly 50 million people in more than 120,000 organizations around the world use Citrix every day. Citrix customers include 100% of the 100 companies, 95% of the 500 and 95% of the 100. Based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Citrix has offices in 22 countries, and more than 7,000 channel and alliance partners in more than 100 countries. For more information visit http://www.citrix.com.
Fortune
Fortune
Financial Times European
FOR CITRIX INVESTORS
     This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements by management, the statements contained in Business Outlook and in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to comparable U.S. GAAP measures concerning management's forecast of revenue and earnings per share, statements regarding the company's existing and new customers and new products, product strategies, the potential size of product markets, product launch dates and statements concerning internal operations, marketing, management's plans, objectives and strategies, and management's assessment of market factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the success of the company's product lines; the company's product concentration and its ability to develop and commercialize new products and services; the success of investments in foreign operations and markets; the company's success in expanding into new geographic and vertical markets; the company's ability to maintain and expand its core business in large enterprise accounts; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders and other revenue recognition changes, including increases in deferred revenue; the company's reliance on and the success of the company's independent distributors and resellers for the marketing and distribution of the company's products; increased competition, including potential competition from Microsoft and other companies; changes in the company's pricing policies or those of its competitors; management of operations and operating expenses; charges in the event of the impairment of assets acquired through purchase combinations and licenses; the management of anticipated future growth, as well as risks of downturns in economic conditions generally; political and social turmoil; and the uncertainty in and the effects of a weak IT spending environment which has impacted the overall demand for software and related services; and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be construed as superior to GAAP financial measures. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure used or discussed in this press release (if available) and a reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure are included in this press release after the condensed consolidated financial statements and can be found on the Investor Relations page of the Citrix corporate web site at http://www.citrix.com/investors.
Citrix, MetaFrame, MetaFrame XP, Citrix Authorized Learning Centers, Citrix Business Alliance and Subscription Advantage are registered trademarks or trademarks of Citrix Systems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. Microsoft, Windows and Outlook are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.
 
Note: The above presentation of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share has been adjusted to exclude the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations of $2.7 million and $2.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively and $5.7 million and $5.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Amortization of intangible assets was comprised primarily of amortization of core technologies.
 
 
We utilize certain non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance. We consider these measures important indicators of our success. In addition, Citrix provides these non-GAAP measures of the company's performance to investors to enable them to better compare Citrix's most recent results of operations against financial models prepared by the company's investors and securities analysts. These measures should not be considered an alternative to measurements required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") such as net income and earnings per share and should not be considered measures of our liquidity. In addition, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
The following tables reconcile non-GAAP financial measures used in this release to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for the respective periods (in thousands, except for per share information and percentages):
 


