FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20030423160258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c)  .
Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. (Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.)
     This Current Report on Form 8-K of Citrix Systems, Inc. (the "Company") is intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" but is instead furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure" in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8216. The following information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     On April 23, 2003, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
  Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS), the global leader in access infrastructure solutions, today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.
April 23, 2003
FINANCIAL RESULTS
     Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2003 were $143.5 million compared to $142.3 million in the same period of the prior year. Net income was $30.3 million for the first quarter of 2003, or $0.18 per share, as compared to $26.7 million or $0.14 per share in the comparable period of the prior year. Net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, was $32.2 million for the first quarter of 2003, or $0.19 per share, as compared to $29.3 million, or $0.16 per share in the comparable period of the prior year.
     "We had a solid quarter and I'm quite pleased with our performance," said Mark Templeton, president and chief executive officer for Citrix. "Our software license and technical services revenue was up about 8 percent over the same period last year. There was strength in medium-sized projects  both in first-time implementations and system expansions. We also saw growth in Subscription Advantage renewals, helping boost our deferred revenue. "Overall we believe these results show that we are executing well, selling to both new and existing customers. Additionally, our results illustrate that our customers see great value in our access infrastructure solution, helping lower the costs of computing and increase the productive power of the on-demand enterprise."
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
CUSTOMER HIGHLIGHTS
     Citrix closed several key deals in the first quarter including Adventist Health, Banco Pastor in Spain, Cargill, IKEA, Target Corporation, and others.
     Adventist Health, one of the largest healthcare delivery networks on the west coast, with 20 hospitals located in California, Hawaii, Oregon and Washington, will be using Citrix access infrastructure software to deploy Cerner Corporation's Millennium Suite of healthcare applications. The software will be an integral part of delivering patient information at the point of care, whether it is in a hospital room or visiting a patient at home.
     Cargill, Inc., an international company that merchandises, processes and distributes agricultural and other products and services throughout the world, recently expanded its use of Citrix MetaFrame XP Presentation Server to deploy Microsoft and J.D. Edwards applications to its employees in North and Central America. Through simplified access to information, Cargill is able to improve internal efficiency and ultimately the delivery of customer solutions in supply chain management, food applications, and health and nutrition.
     Target Corporation operates large-store general merchandise formats, including discount stores, moderate-priced promotional and traditional department stores, as well as a direct mail and on-line business. With more than 40,000 seats of Citrix MetaFrame XP Presentation Server, Target is able to connect employees and stores across the country to business applications, such as Lawson Financials and Siebel, as well as retail management and call center applications. Citrix also announced in March that its flagship product, Citrix MetaFrame XP Presentation Server, has amassed 5.6 million new users since its launch in February 2001.
 
     In total, there are now nearly 50 million Citrix users at more than 120,000 organizations worldwide.
     In addition, during the quarter, Citrix was awarded a U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedule 70 contract, which gives federal agencies a direct purchasing vehicle for acquiring Citrix access infrastructure solutions while utilizing architecture and integration services from the entire array of Citrix government integrators. Citrix software is currently used by hundreds of U.S. federal agencies including the U.S. Navy, Army and Air Force, the Department of Transportation and the Department of Veteran's Affairs.
ALLIANCE HIGHLIGHTS
 
CITRIX METAFRAME ACCESS SUITE
     At Citrix Product Strategy Day in March, the company announced that it was expanding into the multi-billion-dollar access infrastructure market with the launch of the Citrix MetaFrame Access Suite. The strategy is designed to drive Citrix growth by leveraging the company's market-leading position in access infrastructure to expand into adjacent access-related markets. To this end, Citrix is extending its flagship MetaFrame brand into a suite of products that address end-to-end enterprise access requirements.
     As part of the new product strategy, Citrix is effectively integrating multiple technologies that have traditionally been served by disparate vendors with little synergy and integration. The Citrix MetaFrame Access Suite provides customers with a complete and integrated access infrastructure solution that brings greater simplicity, cost-effectiveness and agility to IT organizations. The MetaFrame Access Suite includes:
Availability of these products is planned over the next two quarters.
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
The company believes that continuing uncertainty in IT spending levels persists, making it particularly difficult to forecast product demand and other related matters. Accordingly, Citrix management offers the following guidance for the quarter ending June 30, 2003:
 
The above statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
Citrix will host a conference call today at 4:45 p.m. EDT to discuss its financial results, quarterly highlights, and business outlook. The call will include a slide presentation, and participants are encouraged to listen to and view the presentation via webcast at www.citrix.com/investors.
The conference call may also be accessed by dialing: (888) 799-0519 or (706) 634-0155, using passcode: CITRIX. A replay of the webcast can be viewed by visiting the Investor Relations section of the Citrix corporate website at http://www.citrix.com/investors through May 7, 2003. In addition, an audio replay of the conference call will be available through April 30, 2003, by dialing (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (passcode required: 9660664).
ABOUT CITRIX
     Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS) is the global leader in access infrastructure solutions for businesses, government agencies, and educational institutions. The most trusted name in enterprise access, the Citrix MetaFrame Access Suite enables people to easily and securely access the on-demand enterprise, from anywhere, anytime, using any device over any connection. Nearly 50 million people in more than 120,000 organizations around the world use Citrix every day. Citrix customers include 100% of the 100 companies, 95% of the 500 and 95% of the 100. Based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Citrix has offices in 22 countries, and more than 7,000 channel and alliance partners in more than 100 countries. For more information visit http://www.citrix.com.
Fortune
Fortune
Financial Times European
 
FOR CITRIX INVESTORS
     This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements by management, the statements contained in Business Outlook and in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to comparable U.S. GAAP measures concerning management's forecast of revenue and earnings per share, statements regarding the company's customer base and new products, product strategies, the potential size of product markets, product launch dates and statements concerning internal operations, marketing, management's plans, objectives and strategies, and management's assessment of market factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the success of the company's product lines; the company's product concentration and its ability to develop and commercialize new products and services; the success of investments in foreign operations and markets; the company's success in expanding into new geographic and vertical markets; the company's ability to maintain and expand its core business in large enterprise accounts; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders and other revenue recognition changes; the company's reliance on and the success of the company's independent distributors and resellers for the marketing and distribution of the company's products; increased competition, including potential competition from Microsoft and other companies; the results of the company's new licensing and channel programs and agreements, including Citrix Easy Licensing and Subscription Advantage; changes in the company's pricing policies or those of its competitors, including Microsoft; the company's reliance upon its technology relationships with Microsoft and other entities with which the company has a technology relationship; management of operations and operating expenses; charges in the event of the impairment of assets acquired through purchase combinations and licenses; the management of anticipated future growth, as well as risks of downturns in economic conditions generally, political and social turmoil, including the spread of the SARS illness, and the uncertainty in and the effects of a weak IT spending environment which has impacted the overall demand for software and related services, and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be construed as superior to GAAP financial measures. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure used or discussed in this press release (if available) and a reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure are included in this press release after the condensed consolidated financial statements and can be found on the Investor Relations page of the Citrix corporate Website at http://www.citrix.com/investors.
Citrix, MetaFrame, MetaFrame XP and Subscription Advantage are registered trademarks or trademarks of Citrix Systems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.
 
Note: The above presentation of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share has been adjusted to exclude the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily acquired from purchase business combinations and licenses of $3.0 million and $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Amortization of intangible assets was comprised primarily of amortization of core technologies.
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Comparable U.S. GAAP Measures (Unaudited)
We utilize certain non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance. We consider these measures important indicators of our success. In addition, Citrix provides these non-GAAP measures of the company's performance to investors to enable them to better compare Citrix's most recent results of operations against financial models prepared by the company's investors and securities analysts. These measures should not be considered an alternative to measurements required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") such as net income and earnings per share and should not be considered measures of our liquidity. In addition, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
The following tables reconcile non-GAAP financial measures used in this release to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for the respective periods (in thousands, except for percentages):
 


