FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20031022160602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The following information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     On October 22, 2003, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Joe Horine, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 267-3042 or joseph.horine@citrix.com Eric Armstrong, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 267-2977 or eric.armstrong@citrix.com
For media inquiries, contact:
Jeff Lilly, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 267-2886 or jeff.lilly@citrix.com
For investor inquiries, contact:
  Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS), the global leader in access infrastructure solutions, today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2003.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.
October 22, 2003
FINANCIAL RESULTS
     Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2003 were $144.3 million compared to $118.9 million in the same period of the prior year. Net income was $31.0 million for the third quarter of 2003, or $0.18 per share, as compared to $16.8 million, or $0.10 per share, in the comparable period of the prior year. Net income, adjusted to exclude the effect of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, was $32.8 million for the third quarter of 2003, or $0.19 per share, as compared to $17.4 million, or $0.10 per share, in the comparable period of the prior year.
     "We had a solid quarter, and I'm quite pleased with our performance," said Mark Templeton, president and chief executive officer for Citrix. "We saw strong demand from large enterprises, which contributed to the strength in our top-line and an increase in deferred revenue.
     "Overall, I believe our results demonstrate that we are executing well in selling to large enterprises, and that our customers see great value in access infrastructure for the on-demand enterprise."
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
GLOBAL BRANDING AND ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
     In September, Citrix launched a $14 million global advertising campaign designed to raise the company's overall visibility and build the Citrix brand as the leading provider of access infrastructure for the on-demand enterprise. The campaign marks the first global branding initiative in Citrix history and builds on the company's introduction of a complete suite of access infrastructure software. Leveraging the strong loyalty Citrix has secured from its installed base of more than 120,000 customers globally, the company enlisted the help of customer CIOs to participate in the campaign and explain how Citrix software helps grow their businesses. Among the customer participants in the integrated campaign, which comprises print, online, billboard and radio advertising, are Delta Air Lines, AutoNation and smart, a brand of DaimlerChrysler.
CUSTOMER HIGHLIGHTS
     Citrix closed several large deals during the quarter in the financial services, insurance, telecommunications, medical, government and technology sectors.
     In the financial services sector, Citrix signed a deal with Bankdata, one of the leading suppliers of banking information technology in Denmark. Bankdata will implement Citrix MetaFrame Presentation Server for Windows, Enterprise Edition, to centralize information technology management and deploy applications more quickly to around 4,000 users at more than 100 locations.
PRODUCT AND ALLIANCE HIGHLIGHTS
 
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
     Citrix management offers the following guidance for the quarter and year ending December 31, 2003:
 
     The above statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
     Citrix will host a conference call today at 4:45 p.m. ET to discuss its financial results, quarterly highlights and business outlook. The call will include a slide presentation, and participants are encouraged to listen to and view the presentation via webcast at www.citrix.com/investors.
     The conference call may also be accessed by dialing: (888) 799-0519 or (706) 634-0155, using passcode: CITRIX. A replay of the webcast can be viewed by visiting the Investor Relations section of the Citrix corporate website at http://www.citrix.com/investors through November 6, 2003. In addition, an audio replay of the conference call will be available through October 29, 2003, by dialing (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (passcode required: 3090750).
About Citrix
     Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS) is the global leader in access infrastructure solutions and the most trusted name in enterprise access. Citrix software enables people in businesses, government agencies, and educational institutions to securely, easily and instantly access the on-demand enterprise, from anywhere, anytime, using any device, over any connection. Nearly 50 million people in more than 120,000 organizations rely on the Citrix MetaFrame Access Suite to do their jobs. Citrix customers include 100% of the Fortune 100 companies, 99% of the Fortune 500, and 92% of the Fortune Global 500. Based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Citrix has offices in 22 countries, and more than 7,000 channel and alliance partners in more than 100 countries. For more information visit http://www.citrix.com.
FOR CITRIX INVESTORS
     This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements by management, the statements contained in Business Outlook and in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to comparable U.S. GAAP measures concerning management's forecast of revenue and earnings per share, statements regarding the company's existing and new products, the potential size of product markets, and statements concerning internal operations, marketing, management's plans, objectives and strategies, and management's assessment of market factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the success of the company's product lines; the company's product concentration and its ability to develop and commercialize new products and services; the success of
 
investments in foreign operations and markets; the success of acquisitions; the company's success in expanding into new geographic and vertical markets; the company's ability to maintain and expand its core business in large enterprise accounts; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders and other revenue recognition changes, including increases in deferred revenue; the company's reliance on and the success of the company's independent distributors and resellers for the marketing and distribution of the company's products; increased competition, including potential competition from Microsoft and other companies; changes in the company's pricing policies or those of its competitors; management of operations and operating expenses; charges in the event of the impairment of assets acquired through business combinations and licenses; the management of anticipated future growth and the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, as well as risks of downturns in economic conditions generally; political and social turmoil; and the uncertainty in and the effects of a weak IT spending environment which has impacted the overall demand for software and related services; and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     This press release contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be construed as superior to GAAP financial measures. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure used or discussed in this press release (if available) and a reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure are included in this press release after the condensed consolidated financial statements and can be found on the Investor Relations page of the Citrix corporate web site at http://www.citrix.com/investors.
Citrix and MetaFrame are registered trademarks or trademarks of Citrix Systems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. Microsoft, Windows and Outlook are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.
 
Note: The above presentation of adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share has been adjusted to exclude the effects of amortization of core technology and other intangible assets primarily related to business combinations of $2.9 million and $2.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and $8.5 million and $8.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
 
We utilize certain non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance. We consider these measures important indicators of our success. In addition, Citrix provides these non-GAAP measures of the company's performance to investors to enable them to better compare Citrix's most recent results of operations against financial models prepared by the company's investors and securities analysts. These measures should not be considered an alternative to measurements required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") such as net income and earnings per share and should not be considered measures of our liquidity. In addition, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
The following tables reconcile non-GAAP financial measures used in this release to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure for the respective periods (in thousands, except for per share information and percentages):
 


