FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20041209141118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On December 9, 2004, the Company issued a press release announcing that it completed its previously announced acquisition of privately held Net6, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
 
A copy of the press release is attached hereto and furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
For media inquiries, contact:
Eric Armstrong, Citrix Systems, Inc.
(954) 267-2977 or
eric.armstrong@citrix.com
 
For investor inquiries, contact:
Jeff Lilly, Citrix Systems, Inc.
(954) 267-2886
jeff.lilly@citrix.com
 
 
 
Citrix Systems Inc. (Nasdaq: CTXS), the global leader in access infrastructure solutions, today announced it has completed the acquisition of privately held Net6 Inc., a leader in providing secure access gateways. The acquisition extends Citrix's ability to provide easy and secure access to any resource, both data and voice, on-demand.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.  December 9, 2004 
 
The combination of Net6 products and Citrix's existing access infrastructure solutions will enable Citrix to offer an unrivaled end-to-end access infrastructure system for voice, data and applications on a single, common gateway that can be accessed securely from a wide range of devices.
 
"This is another step for Citrix in our strategy to address the access infrastructure market through growth and acquisition," said Mark Templeton, president and chief executive officer for Citrix.
 
"Net6 technology will help us secure the last mile of computing, simplify access for users, and allow enterprises to manage and accommodate more end user access scenarios."
 
This acquisition accelerates, in four key ways, Citrix's strategy to define and lead the access infrastructure market:
 
 
 
ADD
Citrix Completes Acquisition of Net6
Page 2
 
 
 
 
On Nov. 23, 2004, Citrix announced a definitive agreement to purchase Net6 Inc. for approximately $50 million in cash. Net6 will continue to operate in San Jose, Calif., as the Citrix Gateways Division. Murli Thirumale, president and chief executive officer for Net6, will report to Mark Templeton as vice president and general manager of the division.
 
About Citrix
 
Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq: CTXS) is the global leader in access infrastructure solutions and the most trusted name in secure access for enterprises and individuals. Nearly 50 million people in more than 120,000 organizations around the world use Citrix every day. Our software gives people secure and well-managed access to business information wherever it lives-on demand. Citrix customers include 100% of the 100 companies, 99% of the 500, and 92% of the Global 500. Based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Citrix has offices in 22 countries, and approximately 7,000 channel and alliance partners in more than 100 countries. For more information visit
Fortune
Fortune
Fortune
http://www.citrix.com.
 
For Citrix Investors
 
This release contains forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements concerning the terms of the acquisition; statements concerning the access infrastructure market, integration plans, customers, products and technology; and statements concerning management's plans, objectives, strategies and assessment of market factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, the reaction of customers of Citrix and Net6 to the acquisition; Citrix's timing and ability to successfully integrate Net6's products, operations (including migration of Net6 to Citrix's systems and controls) and employees; the introduction of new products by competitors or the entry of new competitors into the markets for Citrix's and Net6's products; the failure by Citrix to retain key employees of Net6; failure to further develop and successfully market Net6's technology and products; failure to achieve anticipated revenues; costs related to the acquisition; and economic and political conditions in the U.S. and abroad. More information about potential factors that could affect Citrix's business and financial results is included in Citrix's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2004, including (without limitation) under the captions "Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," which are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Security and Exchange Commission's website at . Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
http://www.sec.gov
 
 
Citrix and MetaFrame are registered trademarks or trademarks of Citrix Systems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. Net6 and Net6 Application Gateway are trademarks of Net6, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.


