FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20051221062157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
Citrix Systems, Inc. today announced that Mark B. Templeton, president and chief executive officer of Citrix, adopted a stock trading plan on December 5, 2005, to exercise and sell a portion of his employee stock options that will expire over approximately the next two years. The plan was established in accordance with the guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as the company's policies with respect to sales of shares held by insiders.
 
Under the plan, Mr. Templeton may exercise and sell up to 250,000 options on a quarterly basis in one or more transactions over approximately a one-year period. A portion of the proceeds will also be used to fund the exercise of an additional 12,000 incentive stock options. Under the terms of the plan, Mr. Templeton will have no discretion or control over the timing or execution of the sales. The transactions under Mr. Templeton's plan will commence in January 2006 and appropriate filings reporting the sales will be made with the Securities and Exchange Commission when sales are completed under the trading plan.
 
Rule 10b5-1 allows officers and directors to adopt written, prearranged stock trading plans when they do not possess material,
non-public information. Once the plan is set up, trades may be executed based on prearranged instructions or the application of a formula determined at the time the plan was established.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
CITRIX SYSTEMS, INC.
 
Date:  December 21, 2005
By:  
/s/    David J. Henshall                        
        David J. Henshall
        Senior Vice President and
        Chief Financial Officer


