FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20051109154509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
 
As previously reported, on August 15, 2005, Citrix Systems, Inc. ("Citrix") acquired NetScaler, Inc., a privately held Delaware corporation headquartered in San Jose, California ("NetScaler"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 1, 2005, by and among Citrix, NCAR Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citrix, NCAR, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citrix, NetScaler and Gaurav Garg, as stockholder representative. A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed by Citrix on August 16, 2005 (the "Original Form 8-K") to report the completion of its acquisition of NetScaler under Items 2.01 and 9.01. A Current Report on Form 8-K/A was filed by Citrix on October 31, 2005 as an amendment (Amendment No. 1) to the Original Form 8-K to include the financial information required under parts (a) and (b) of Item 9.01. This Current Report on Form 8-K/A is being filed as an amendment (Amendment No. 2) to the Original Form 8-K to revise certain financial information related to the value of unvested stock-based compensation assumed by Citrix upon the closing of the transaction contained in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Amendment No. 1 to the Original Form 8-K.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information required by this item with respect to the transaction described in Item 2.01 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Amendment No. 2, is incorporated herein by reference and supersedes in its entirety the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Amendment No. 1 to the Original Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
As previously reported, on August 15, 2005, Citrix Systems, Inc. ("Citrix") acquired NetScaler, Inc., a privately held Delaware corporation headquartered in San Jose, California ("NetScaler"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 1, 2005, by and among Citrix, NCAR Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citrix, NCAR, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citrix, NetScaler and Gaurav Garg, as stockholder representative. The Company funded the merger through its authorized common stock, its available cash resources and bank financing.
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2005 and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004 are based on the historical financial statements of Citrix and NetScaler after giving effect to the merger, effective as of August 15, 2005, as a purchase of NetScaler by Citrix using the purchase method of accounting, borrowings made in connection therewith under the Credit Facility (as described in Note 3) and the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2005 is presented to give effect to the merger as if it and the borrowings under the Credit Facility occurred on June 30, 2005 and combines the historical balance sheets of Citrix and NetScaler at June 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated income statements of Citrix and NetScaler for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004 are presented as if the merger and the borrowings under the Credit Facility had occurred on January 1, 2004.
 
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total preliminary purchase price as described in Note 2 to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements was allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets of NetScaler acquired in connection with the merger based on their fair values as of the completion of the merger. The estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities have been determined with the assistance of third party valuation specialists. The preliminary work performed by the third party valuation specialists has been considered in management's estimates of the fair values reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements. Management's estimates and assumptions are subject to change upon the finalization of the valuation and may be adjusted in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, The purchase price allocation is not finalized primarily due to in-process research and development ("IPR&D").
Business Combinations.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes
 
of Citrix included in Citrix Systems, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and quarterly reports filed on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2005, the three and six months ended June 30, 2005 and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and with the historical consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes of NetScaler for the year ended June 30, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed by Citrix on October 31, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Citrix that would have been reported had the merger and the borrowings under the Credit Facility been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Citrix. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements do not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that Citrix may achieve with respect to the combined companies nor do they include the effects of Citrix's repayment of the borrowings under the Credit Facility.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2005 is presented to give effect to the merger as if it and the borrowings under the Credit Facility occurred on June 30, 2005 and combines the historical balance sheets of Citrix Systems, Inc. ("Citrix") and NetScaler, Inc. ("NetScaler") at June 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated income statements of Citrix and NetScaler for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004 are presented as if the merger and the borrowings under the Credit Facility had occurred on January 1, 2004. No pro forma adjustments were required to conform NetScaler's accounting policies to Citrix's accounting policies.
 
Under the purchase method of accounting the total preliminary purchase price as described in Note 2 to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements was allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets of NetScaler acquired in connection with the merger based on their fair values as of the completion of the merger. The estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities have been determined with the assistance of third party valuation specialists. The preliminary work performed by the third party valuation specialists was considered in management's estimates of the fair values reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements. Management's estimates and assumptions are subject to change upon the finalization of the valuation and may be adjusted in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, The purchase price allocation is not finalized primarily due to in-process research and development ("IPR&D").
Business Combinations.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Citrix that would have been reported had the merger and the borrowings under the Credit Facility been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Citrix. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements do not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that Citrix may achieve with respect to the combined companies nor do they include the effects of Citrix's repayment of the borrowings under the Credit Facility. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes of Citrix included in the Citrix Systems, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and quarterly reports filed on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2005, the three and six months ended June 30, 2005, the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and with the historical consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes of NetScaler for the year ended June 30, 2005.
 
 
On June 1, 2005, Citrix and NetScaler entered into a merger agreement that resulted in Citrix acquiring 100 percent of the issued and outstanding capital stock of NetScaler by means of a reverse triangular merger of NetScaler and NCAR Acquisition Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citrix, with NCAR Acquisition Corporation ceasing to exist as a separate corporate entity and NetScaler continuing as the surviving corporation. The reverse triangular merger was consummated on August 15, 2005 and followed by a roll-up merger of NetScaler and NCAR, LLC, a limited liability company wholly-owned by Citrix, with NCAR, LLC continuing as the surviving entity of the roll-up merger. The transaction was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The total consideration for this transaction was approximately $300.0 million, comprised of approximately $138.9 million in cash, approximately 6.6 million shares of the Company's common stock valued at approximately $154.5 million and direct transaction costs of approximately $6.1 million. The value of the common stock issued was based on 55% of the total purchase price divided by a fixed value per share of $24.83 as defined in the merger agreement. As of September 30, 2005, there were outstanding commitments for the issuance of shares of the Company's common stock related to the purchase consideration for NetScaler of approximately $0.5 million. The Company also assumed approximately $21.4 million in unvested stock-based compensation upon the closing of the transaction that were accounted for in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 44, and were recorded as deferred compensation. The awards assumed had an excess of fair value over intrinsic value of approximately $0.5 million and is reflected in the total consideration for the transaction.
Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation (an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 2)
 
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price was allocated to NetScaler's net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of the date of the completion of the merger. Based on the preliminary third party valuation and other factors as described in the introduction to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements, the preliminary estimated purchase price was allocated as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price was based upon a preliminary valuation and the Company's estimates and assumptions are subject to change upon the finalization of the
 
valuation. The purchase price allocation is not finalized primarily due to IPR&D.
 
Of the total estimated purchase price, a preliminary estimate of approximately $13.0 million was allocated to net tangible assets acquired. Net tangible assets were valued at their respective carrying amounts, which management believes approximated fair value, except for adjustments to deferred revenue, deferred tax assets and a pre-acquisition royalty liability. Deferred revenues were reduced by $2.8 million in the pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet, to adjust deferred revenue to the estimated cost plus an appropriate profit margin to perform the support and maintenance services, product delivery and installation obligations under NetScaler's existing contracts. Deferred tax assets include the tax effects of fair value adjustments related to NetScaler's net tangible and intangible assets and the pre-acquisition royalty liability which relates to a termination payment made in accordance with the terms of the technology license agreement with F5 is recorded at the amount paid subsequent to the acquisition.
 
Approximately $70.2 million was allocated to identifiable amortizable intangible assets acquired. Core technology is comprised of products that have reached technological feasibility, which includes most of NetScaler's technology, principally NetScaler's application acceleration networking product line. The remainder of amortizable intangible assets is associated with customer relationships, trade names and covenants not to compete. The amortization related to the amortizable intangible assets is reflected as a pro forma adjustment to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated income statements.
 
Of the total estimated purchase price, approximately $209.8 million was allocated to goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Goodwill amounts are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment at least annually. In the event that the Company determines that the value of the goodwill has become impaired, an accounting charge for the amount of the impairment will be incurred in the quarter in which such determination was made.
 
Of the total estimated purchase price, approximately $7.0 million was allocated to IPR&D and was charged to expense upon completion of the merger. The IPR&D amount is primarily related to NetScaler projects related to development in multiple product areas that have not yet reached technological feasibility and do not have alternative future uses.
 
 
Effective August 9, 2005, the Company entered into a senior revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a group of financial institutions, to, among other things, fund a portion of the cash portion of the purchase price of the acquisition of the outstanding shares of capital stock of NetScaler. The Credit Facility provides for a five year revolving line of credit in the aggregate amount of $100.0 million, subject to continued covenant compliance. The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.5% and adjusts in the future in the range of 0.5% to 1.25% above LIBOR based on the level of the Company's total debt and its adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"). In addition, the Company is required to pay
 
an annual facility fee ranging from 0.125% to 0.25% based on the aggregate amount available under the Credit Facility and the level of the Company's total debt and its adjusted EBITDA. The Company repaid all initial borrowings under the Credit Facility on September 29, 2005.
 
 
Pro forma adjustments are necessary to reflect purchase accounting adjustments and borrowings as if the merger and the borrowings occurred on June 30, 2005 and to present the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated income statements for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004, respectively.
 
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


