FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20060927164610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into Material Definitive Agreements.
On September 27, 2006, Citrix Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Citrix"), entered into an amendment and restatement of its five-year $100 million credit facility (as so amended and restated, the "Credit Agreement"), among Citrix Systems International GmbH as co-borrower, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., as Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and UK Security Trustee (together with the other lenders, the "Lenders"). Citrix's obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by several of its subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement amended and restated Citrix's previously existing secured credit facility with the Lenders that was dated as of August 9, 2005 and was set to expire August 9, 2010. Subject to continued covenant compliance, the Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit commitment of up to $100 million (of which up to $25 million may be used for issuances of standby or commercial letters of credit and up to $15 million may be used for the making of swing loans by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.) and will expire on September 27, 2011. Citrix may from time to time increase the revolving credit commitment up to a maximum aggregate revolving credit commitment of $175 million. The borrowings under the credit facility bear interest and fees as set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Under the Credit Agreement, Citrix must comply with various financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenants consist of a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio. The primary non-financial covenants limit Citrix's ability to pay dividends, conduct certain mergers or acquisitions, make certain investments and loans, incur future indebtedness or liens, alter Citrix's capital structure, or sell stock or assets. The Credit Agreement also includes customary events of default, with corresponding grace periods, including, without limitation, payment defaults, cross-defaults to other agreements evidencing indebtedness for borrowed money and bankruptcy-related defaults. The Lenders are entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of the events of default.
The Lenders and/or their affiliates have provided and may continue to provide commercial banking, investment management and other services to Citrix, its affiliates and employees, for which they receive customary fees and commissions.
A copy of the Credit Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The description above is a summary of the Credit Agreement, and is qualified in its entirety by the complete text of the Credit Agreement.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 27, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1.01  Pricing Schedule
Schedule 2.01  Commitments
Schedule 3.06  Disclosed Matters
Schedule 3.13  Subsidiaries
Schedule 6.01  Existing Indebtedness
Schedule 6.02  Existing Liens
Schedule 6.08  Existing Restrictions
:
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A  Form of Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit B  Corporate Investment Policy
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of September 27, 2006, among CITRIX SYSTEMS, INC., as Borrower, CITRIX SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL GMBH, as Subsidiary Borrower, the LENDERS party hereto, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, as Collateral Agent and as UK Security Trustee.
A. The Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the financial institutions designated as existing lenders on Schedule 2.01 ("") are party to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 9, 2005 (the "").
Existing Lenders
Existing Credit Agreement
B. The Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Existing Lenders wish to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth below to, among other things, extend the Maturity Date and reallocate the Commitments.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements made herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree that the Existing Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means either (a) the assets constituting a business, division, facility, product line or line of business of any Person not already a Subsidiary or (b) 80% or more of the capital stock of any such Person, which Person shall, as a result of such acquisition or merger, either (i) become a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower (or shall be merged with and into the Borrower or a Subsidiary Guarantor, with the Borrower or such Subsidiary Guarantor being the surviving Person) or (ii) become a Controlled Subsidiary.
Acquired Entity or Business
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means (a) that certain Affirmation of Guaranties and Security Documents dated as of the date hereof made by the Credit Parties in favor of the Secured Creditors and (b) such related affirmations as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request with respect to the Pledge Agreement Collateral, in each case as the same may be amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Affirmation
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by or is under common Control, with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means this Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as further amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Agreement
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Base CD Rate in effect on such day plus 1% and (c) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Base CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Base CD Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
"" means, with respect to any Loan or other amount owing hereunder or any matter pertaining to such Loan or other amount, whichever of the Borrowers is the primary obligor on such Loan or other amount.
Applicable Borrower
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means, for any day, with respect to any ABR Loan or Eurodollar Loan, or with respect to the Letter of Credit and facility fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth in Schedule 1.01 under the caption "ABR", "Eurodollar Rate", "Letter of Credit Fee" or "Facility Fee", as the case may be, based upon the Leverage Ratio.
Applicable Rate
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Approved Fund
"" means, for any day, the annual assessment rate in effect on such day that is payable by a member of the Bank Insurance Fund classified as "well capitalized" and within supervisory subgroup "B" (or a comparable successor risk classification) within the meaning of 12 C.F.R. Part 327 (or any successor provision) to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for insurance by such Corporation of time deposits made in dollars at the offices of such member in the United States of America; that if, as a result of any change in any law, rule or regulation, it is no longer possible to determine the Assessment Rate as aforesaid, then the Assessment Rate shall be such annual rate as shall be reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be representative of the cost of such insurance to the Lenders.
Assessment Rate
provided
 
"" means any sale, transfer or other disposition of any asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions (other than (a) the sale of inventory or products (including software) in the ordinary course or the sale of obsolete or worn out property in the ordinary course, and (b) the sale of Permitted Investments in the ordinary course of business.
Asset Disposition
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means the sum of (a) the Three Month Secondary CD Rate multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate plus (b) the Assessment Rate.
Base CD Rate
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means Citrix Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Borrower
"" means the Borrower and the Subsidiary Borrower.
Borrowers
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date to the same Applicable Borrower and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
 
"" means:
Cash Equivalents
(a) direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States (or by any agency thereof to the extent such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States), in each case maturing within one year from the date of acquisition thereof;
(b) investments in commercial paper maturing within 270 days from the date of acquisition thereof and having, at such date of acquisition, the highest credit rating obtainable from Standard & Poor's or from Moody's Investors Service, Inc.;
(c) investments in certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances and time deposits maturing within 180 days from the date of acquisition thereof issued or guaranteed by or placed with, and money market deposit accounts issued or offered by, any domestic office of any commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof which has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000;
(d) fully collateralized repurchase agreements with a term of not more than 30 days for securities described in clause (a) above and entered into with a financial institution satisfying the criteria described in clause (c) above; and
(e) money market funds that comply with the criteria set forth in Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and are rated AAA by Standard & Poor's and Aaa by Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) of Equity Interests representing more than 20% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower; (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of the Borrower by any Person or group.
Change in Control
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender or the Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of Section 2.15(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.13.
Charges
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means all property with respect to which any security interests have been granted (or purported to be granted) pursuant to any Security Document, including, without limitation, all Pledge Agreement Collateral and all cash delivered as collateral pursuant to Section 2.06(j).
Collateral
"" means the Administrative Agent acting as collateral agent for the Secured Creditors pursuant to the Security Documents.
Collateral Agent
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.09 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $100,000,000.
Commitment
"" means at any time the consolidated stockholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis as of such time.
Consolidated Net Worth
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
"" of a Person means (a) any subsidiary at least 80% of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or (b) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization at least 80% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.
Controlled Subsidiary
"" means this Agreement and, after the execution and delivery thereof pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each promissory note, if any, delivered pursuant to Section 2.10(e), the Subsidiary Guaranty, the Parent Guaranty and each Security Document.
Credit Documents
"" means each Borrower and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Credit Party
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06.
Disclosed Matters
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means each Subsidiary that is incorporated under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means, for any applicable computation period, the Borrower's and Subsidiaries' Net Income on a consolidated basis from continuing operations, , to the extent included in the determination of Net Income, (a) income and franchise taxes paid or accrued during such period, (b) Total Interest Expense for such period, (c) amortization and depreciation deducted in determining Net Income for such period, (d) non-cash charges, (e) write-offs for in-process research and development to the extent not included in clause (d), and (f) non-cash charges required by GAAP in connection with the Borrower's issuance of options to purchase stock.
EBITDA
plus
"" means, for any applicable computation period, the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' Net Income on a consolidated basis from continuing operations, , to the extent included in the determination of Net Income, (a) income and franchise taxes paid or accrued during such period, (b) Total Interest Expense for such period, (c) amortization and depreciation deducted in determining Net Income for such period, (d) non-cash charges, (e) write-offs for in-process research and development to the extent not included in clause (d), (f) non-cash charges required by GAAP in connection with the Borrower's issuance of options to purchase stock, and (g) Rentals for such period.
EBITDAR
plus
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
"" means any and all federal, state, local and foreign statutes, laws, judicial decisions, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, plans, injunctions, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements and other governmental restrictions relating to (i) the protection of the environment, (ii) the effect of the environment on human health, (iii) emissions, discharges or releases of Hazardous Materials into surface water, ground water or land, or (iv) the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, hazardous substances or wastes or the clean-up or other remediation thereof.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
 
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30 day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition on Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan to which Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has any obligation to contribute is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrowers hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which either of the Borrowers is organized or in which its principal office is located, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.19(b)), (i) any United States withholding tax that is in effect and would apply to amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this
Excluded Taxes
 
Agreement (or designates a new lending office), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrowers with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.17(a) or (ii) any withholding tax that is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(e), and (d) any Swiss withholding tax with respect to any Foreign Lender which is not a Qualifying Lender.
"" is defined in the Recitals hereto.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" is defined in the Recitals hereto.
Existing Lenders
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower.
Financial Officer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.11.
First Tier Material Foreign Subsidiary
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is organized. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means each Subsidiary which is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
 
purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Guarantee made by any guarantor shall be deemed to be the lower of (a) an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guarantee is made and (b) the maximum amount for which such guarantor may be liable pursuant to the terms of the instrument embodying such Guarantee, unless (in the case of a primary obligation that is not Indebtedness) such primary obligation and the maximum amount for which such guarantor may be liable are not stated or determinable, in which case the amount of such Guarantee shall be such guarantor's maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the Borrower in good faith.
provided
" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
"Hazardous Materials
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind (other than deposits or advances made by customers or subtenants of such Person in the ordinary course of business), (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding accrued salaries, vacation and other employee benefits and current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances, and (k) all Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities; that the term "Indebtedness" shall not be construed to include (i) deferred taxes, (ii) contingent obligations under customary indemnification provisions contained in contracts or agreements or (iii) obligations in respect of customary purchase price adjustment provisions contained in contracts or agreements relating to the purchase or sale of assets. The amount of any Indebtedness of a Person that constitutes Indebtedness of such Person solely by reason of clause (f) above and has not been assumed by such Person shall be deemed to be the lesser of (i) the book value of the property owned or acquired by such Person that is or may be the subject of a Lien securing such Indebtedness, as determined by such Person in good faith at such time and
Indebtedness
provided
 
(ii) the amount of Indebtedness that is or may be secured by such property. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated August 2006 relating to the Borrower and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
"" means as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower, the ratio of (a) EBITDAR to (b) the sum of Total Interest Expense plus Rentals, in each case for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended, computed on a consolidated basis for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.08.
Interest Election Request
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of an Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, the last day of each successive three month period beginning on the first day of such Interest Period and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid.
Interest Payment Date
"" means with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect; that (a) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (b) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and each other Lender that agrees in writing with the Borrower to issue Letters of Credit ( that notice of such agreement is given to the Administrative Agent), in each case, in its capacity as the issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.06(i). The Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
Issuing Bank
provided
 
"" means a payment made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement.
Letter of Credit
"" means at any time, the ratio of Total Debt at such time to EBITDA for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters of the Borrower, computed on a consolidated basis for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Leverage Ratio
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3750 of the Dow Jones Market Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such Service, or any successor to or substitute for such Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
 
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Subsidiary Guarantors taken as a whole or either Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the Credit Documents or (c) the enforcement rights available to the Lenders under the Credit Documents, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of any one or more of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $10,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
"" means a Domestic Subsidiary or a Foreign Subsidiary held directly by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Domestic Subsidiary which (a) as of August 9, 2005, had assets having a book value in excess of $2,000,000 or which generated in excess of $2,000,000 of net income over the four fiscal quarter period most recently ended prior to August 9, 2005, or (b) thereafter, has or acquires assets having a book value in excess of $5,000,000 or which generated in excess of $5,000,000 of net income over the four fiscal quarter period most recently ended prior to the time of computation.
Material Subsidiary
"" means September 27, 2011.
Maturity Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.13.
Maximum Rate
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, for any computation period, net income or loss of the Borrower on a consolidated basis with its Subsidiaries (other than, to the extent of such restriction, any Subsidiary which is restricted from declaring or paying dividends or otherwise advancing funds to its parent whether by contract or otherwise), earned during such period (determined before the deduction of minority interests) as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Net Income
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.11(c).
Non-Subject Subsidiary
"" of a Person means (a) any repurchase obligation or liability of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person, (b) any liability under any so-called "synthetic lease" arrangement or transaction entered into by such Person, or (c) any obligation arising with respect to any other transaction which is the functional equivalent of or takes the place of borrowing but which does not constitute a liability on the balance sheets of such Person.
Off-Balance Sheet Liability
 
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
"" means that certain guaranty dated as of August 9, 2005 by the Borrower in favor of the Secured Creditors, as the same may be amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Parent Guaranty
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Participant
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means the acquisition by the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary thereof of an Acquired Entity or Business (including by way of merger of such Acquired Entity or Business with and into the Borrower (so long as the Borrower is the surviving corporation) or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary thereof (so long as the Wholly-Owned Subsidiary is the surviving corporation); that, in each case, (a) the consideration paid or to be paid by the Borrower or such Wholly-Owned Subsidiary consists solely of cash (including proceeds of Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans), the issuance or incurrence of Indebtedness otherwise permitted by Section 6.01, the issuance of common stock of the Borrower to the extent no Default or Event of Default exists pursuant to clause (m) of Article VII or would result therefrom and the assumption/acquisition of any Indebtedness (calculated at face value) which is permitted to remain outstanding in accordance with the requirements of Section 6.01; (b) in the case of the acquisition of 80% or more of the capital stock of any Person (including by way of merger), such Person shall own no capital stock of any other Person (excluding amounts) unless either (i) such Person owns 100% of the capital stock of such other Person or (ii) (x) such Person and its Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries own at least 80% of the consolidated assets of such other Person and its Subsidiaries and (y) any non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of such Person was a non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiary prior to the date of such Permitted Acquisition of such Person; (c) the Acquired Entity or Business acquired pursuant to the respective Permitted Acquisition is in a business permitted by Section 6.03(c); (d) in the case of a stock acquisition, such acquisition shall have been approved by the board of directors of the Acquired Entity or Business; and (e) all applicable requirements of Sections 6.03 and 6.04(h) applicable to Permitted Acquisitions are satisfied.
Permitted Acquisition
provided
de minimis
"" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
(a) Liens imposed by law for Taxes that are not yet due or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
(b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's, landlord's and other like Liens imposed by law, and landlord's Liens imposed by contracts, in each case, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
 
(c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
(d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII;
(f) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way, covenants, conditions, restrictions and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
(g) Liens in favor of banks on items in collection (and the documents related thereto) arising in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries under Article IV of the UCC;
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
"" means permitted investments under the "Corporate Investment Policy", attached hereto as Exhibit B, as in effect on the date hereof and updated from time to time, subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion, and the Swap Agreements not covered by such Corporate Investment Policy that are existing on the date hereof and previously disclosed to the Administrative Agent and such additional Swap Agreements not covered by such Corporate Investment Policy as may be approved by the Borrower's finance committee from time to time, subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion.
Permitted Investments
"" means any receivables financing program providing for the sale of accounts receivables, payment intangibles, accounts or notes receivable and related rights by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries to an SPC for cash in transactions purporting to be sales (and treated as sales for GAAP purposes), which SPC shall finance the purchase of such assets by the sale, transfer, conveyance, lien or pledge of such assets to one or more limited purpose financing companies, special purpose entities and/or other financial institutions, in each case pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Permitted Securitization
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302
Plan
 
of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
"" means, collectively, the Pledge Agreements dated as of August 9, 2005 made by certain of the Credit Parties in favor of the Collateral Agent and the UK Security Trustee for the benefit of the Secured Creditors, as the same may be amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time, and each other document or instrument pursuant to which Equity Interests are pledged to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant hereto. As of the Effective Date, the Pledge Agreements consist of (a) a Syndicated Third Party Equitable Mortgage by Borrower with respect to Citrix Systems (Research & Development) Limited (which is expected to be released in connection with a reorganization) and (b) a Pledge on Registered Shares in Citrix Overseas Holdings B.V. by Peninsula Investment Corp.
Pledge Agreements
"" means all "Collateral" as defined in the Pledge Agreements.
Pledge Agreement Collateral
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" means a financial institution which qualifies as a bank pursuant to the banking laws in force in its jurisdiction of organization or formation.
Qualifying Lender
"" means the amount of obligations outstanding under the legal documents entered into as part of any Permitted Securitization on any date of determination that would be characterized as principal if such Permitted Securitization were structured as a secured lending transaction rather than as a purchase.
Receivables Transaction Attributed Indebtedness
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" of a Person means, with respect to any period, the aggregate amount of rental expense deducted in computing Net Income of such Person.
Rentals
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing at least 51% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any Equity Interests in the Borrower or any
Restricted Payment
 
Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such Equity Interests in the Borrower or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such Equity Interests in the Borrower.
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03.
Revolving Loan
"" means Standard & Poor's.
S&P
"" means any sale or other transfer of property by any Person with the intent to lease such property as lessee.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" shall have the meaning assigned that term in the respective Security Documents.
Secured Creditors
"" means and includes the Affirmation, the Pledge Agreements and each other document or instrument pursuant to which security is granted to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant hereto.
Security Documents
"" means a special purpose, bankruptcy-remote Person formed for the sole and exclusive purpose of engaging in activities in connection with the purchase, sale and financing of accounts receivable, payment intangibles, accounts or notes receivable and related rights in connection with and pursuant to a Permitted Securitization.
SPC
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject (a) with respect to the Base CD Rate, for new negotiable nonpersonal time deposits in dollars of over $100,000 with maturities approximately equal to three months and (b) with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date,
subsidiary
parent
 
as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
"" means any subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means Citrix Systems International GMBH, a company organized under the laws of Switzerland and a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary Borrower
"" means each Subsidiary of the Borrower which is a party to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" means the Subsidiary Guaranty dated as of August 9, 2005 made by the Subsidiaries party thereto in favor of the Secured Creditors, as the same may be amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time. The Subsidiary Guarantors party to the Subsidiary Guaranty as of the Effective Date are so designated on Schedule 3.13 hereto. As of the Effective Date, neither Citrix Cayman Finance Group Ltd. nor Citrix Cayman Investments Ltd. is a Material Subsidiary and accordingly each such Person is released from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Subsidiary Guaranty
"" means, with respect to the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, property which (a) represents more than 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as would be shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the beginning of the twelve-month period ending with the last day of the month preceding the month in which such determination is made, or (b) is responsible for more than 10% of the consolidated net sales or of the consolidated net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as reflected in the financial statements referred to in clause (a) above.
Substantial Portion
"" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock, employee benefit or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
 
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.05.
Swingline Loan
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" means, for any day, the secondary market rate for three month certificates of deposit reported as being in effect on such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) by the Board through the public information telephone line of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (which rate will, under the current practices of the Board, be published in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) during the week following such day) or, if such rate is not so reported on such day or such next preceding Business Day, the average of the secondary market quotations for three month certificates of deposit of major money center banks in New York City received at approximately 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day) by the Administrative Agent from three negotiable certificate of deposit dealers of recognized standing selected by it.
Three Month Secondary CD Rate
"" means all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP , without duplication, (a) all Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities, (b) the face amount of all outstanding letters of credit in respect of which the Borrower or any Subsidiary has any actual or contingent reimbursement obligation and (c) the principal amount of all Guarantees of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Total Debt
plus
"" means, for any period, total cash interest expense deducted in the computation of Net Income for such period (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations and interest paid under synthetic leases) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financing and net costs of rate hedging in respect of interest rates to the extent such net costs are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP).
Total Interest Expense
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrowers of this Agreement, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" means the Uniform Commercial Code as from time to time in effect in the relevant jurisdiction.
UCC
"" means the Administrative Agent acting as trustee pursuant to the Pledge Agreement governed by English law.
UK Security Trustee
"" of a Person means (a) any subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
 
indirectly, by such Person or one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or (b) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization 100% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled (other than in the case of Foreign Subsidiaries, director's qualifying shares and/or other nominal amounts of shares required to be held by Persons other than the Borrower and its Subsidiaries under applicable law).
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
SECTION 1.02. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "Eurodollar Loan") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurodollar Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "Eurodollar Borrowing") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
SECTION 1.03. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
SECTION 1.04. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
 
SECTION 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrowers from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
Commitments
SECTION 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Loans and Borrowings
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.14, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Applicable Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $250,000 and not less than $250,000; that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $100,000 and not less than $100,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of six (6) Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
SECTION 2.03. . To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
 
telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such notice of an ABR Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.06(e) may be given not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
provided
(i) the identity of the Applicable Borrower;
(ii) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(iii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iv) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
(v) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
(vi) the location and number of the Applicable Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.07.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. Intentionally Omitted
[
]
SECTION 2.05. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $15,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments; that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans
provided
 
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Borrower. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Borrower with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e), by remittance to the applicable Issuing Bank) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
(c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
mutatis
mutandis
provided
SECTION 2.06. . (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its
Letters of Credit
General
 
own account, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, an Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
(b) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank) to such Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the applicable Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $25,000,000 and (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Commitments.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
(c) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension); that Letters of Credit which expire after the date which is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date shall be cash collateralized as provided in paragraph (j) of this Section.
Expiration Date
provided
(d) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank or the Lenders, the applicable Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
 
(e) . If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the Business Day next following the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if the Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by the Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on (i) the Business Day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.05 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.07 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.07 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and such Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse an Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
Reimbursement
provided
mutatis
mutandis
(f) . The Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor any
Obligations Absolute
 
Issuing Bank, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of such Issuing Bank; that the foregoing, including clauses (i) through (iv), shall not be construed to excuse any Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by (i) such Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof or (ii) such Issuing Bank's failure to pay under any Letter of Credit issued by it after presentation to it of a request that it has determined strictly complies with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of an Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
provided
(g) . Each Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The applicable Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether such Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
Disbursement Procedures
provided
(h) . If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans; that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.13(c) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
provided
 
(i) . Any Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank (if any, it being understood that a successor Issuing Bank shall not be required if there is more than one Issuing Bank obligated to issue additional Letters of Credit at the time). The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of an Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.12(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of the replaced Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of an Issuing Bank
(j) . If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII. On the date which is thirty (30) days prior to the Maturity Date, whether or not an Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the aggregate LC Exposure with respect to Letters of Credit with an expiration date later than five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date, plus any accrued unpaid interest thereon. Such deposits shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made in Cash Equivalents as directed by the Borrower and at the Borrower's risk and expense; that at any time that an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of
Cash Collateralization
provided
provided
 
Default have been cured or waived. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of an approaching Maturity Date, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three (3) Business Days after all Letters of Credit have expired.
SECTION 2.07. . (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders; that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.05. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Applicable Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Applicable Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City (or, in the case of the Subsidiary Borrower, in such other location as may be designated by the Administrative Agent) and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.06(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Issuing Bank.
Funding of Borrowings
provided
provided
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Applicable Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Applicable Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.08. . (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Interest Elections
 
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
 
SECTION 2.09. . (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments; Increase of Commitments
(b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent, subject to the provisions of Section 2.09(d). Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
(d) At any time prior to a second reduction of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.09(b), the Borrower may, from time to time, at its option, seek to increase the total Commitments by up to an aggregate amount of $75,000,000 (resulting in maximum total Commitments of $175,000,000) upon at least three (3) Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such increase and shall be delivered at a time when no Default has occurred and is continuing. After delivery of such notice, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, in consultation with the Administrative Agent, may offer the increase (which may be declined by any Lender in its sole discretion) in the total Commitments on either a ratable basis to the Lenders or on a non pro-rata basis to one or more Lenders and/or to other Lenders or entities reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower. No increase in the total Commitments shall become effective until the existing or new Lenders extending such incremental Commitment amount and the Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a document in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent pursuant to which any such existing Lender states the amount of its Commitment increase, any such new Lender states its Commitment amount and agrees to assume and accept the obligations and rights of a Lender hereunder and the Borrower accepts such incremental Commitments. The Lenders (new or existing) shall accept an assignment from the existing Lenders, and the existing Lenders shall make an assignment to the new or existing Lender accepting a new or increased Commitment, of a direct or participation interest in each then outstanding Loan and Letter of Credit such that, after giving effect thereto, all Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder is held ratably by the Lenders in proportion to their respective Commitments. Assignments pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be made in exchange for
 
the principal amount assigned plus accrued and unpaid interest and commitment and letter of credit fees. The Borrower shall make any payments under Section 2.16 resulting from such assignments. Any such increase of the total Commitments shall be subject to receipt by the Administrative Agent from the Borrower of such supplemental opinions, resolutions, certificates and other documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
SECTION 2.10. . (a) Each Applicable Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each of its Revolving Loans on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first date after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15th or last day of a calendar month and is at least three Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made; that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrowers to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrowers to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrowers to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Applicable Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
SECTION 2.11. . (a) The Borrowers shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
Prepayment of Loans
 
(b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.09, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.09. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.13.
provided
SECTION 2.12. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the date hereof to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be invoiced and payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Fees
provided
provided
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Revolving Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to the applicable Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate or rates per annum separately agreed upon between the Borrower and such Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure attributable to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination
 
of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure attributable to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, as well as the Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be invoiced and payable on the third Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to the Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within ten (10) days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to the Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of facility fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.13. . (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
Interest
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by either of the Borrowers hereunder is not paid when due and invoiced, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) For the purposes of the laws of Switzerland, and without duplication of Section 2.17, all payments under this Agreement have been computed as minimum payments net of any mandatory reduction on account of Swiss withholding taxes to the extent such withholding taxes constitute Indemnified Taxes.
(e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be invoiced and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR
provided
 
Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
(f) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing; that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
provided
SECTION 2.15. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or the Issuing Bank; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or any Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank (without duplication of any amounts paid to such Lender pursuant to Section 2.17), as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or such Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender or an Issuing Bank setting forth in reasonable detail the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or an Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or such Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 225 days prior to the date that such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 225-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
SECTION 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant
Break Funding Payments
 
hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.11(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth in reasonable detail any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any loss, cost or expense incurred more than 225 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the loss, cost or expense and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor.
provided
SECTION 2.17. . (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of either of the Borrowers hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if either of the Borrowers shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Applicable Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Applicable Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
provided
(b) In addition, the Applicable Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The Applicable Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Issuing Bank, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of such Applicable Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section but excluding Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes to the extent resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as applicable) and
 
any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Applicable Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Applicable Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) (i) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Applicable Borrower is organized, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. The Borrower agrees to furnish to each Lender (other than a Foreign Lender that is not a Qualifying Lender) such certificates or other documents as shall be necessary to claim a refund or reduction of Swiss withholding taxes.
(ii) Without limiting the foregoing, each Foreign Lender with respect to Loans to the Borrower, shall deliver to the Borrower, with copies to the Administrative Agent, two copies of either IRS Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, or, in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming exemption from the withholding of U.S. federal income tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of "portfolio interest," a certificate representing that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c) of the Code, (B) a ten-percent shareholder of the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code) or (C) a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower (within the meaning of Section 864(d)(4) of the Code), and a Form W-8BEN, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto, in all cases properly completed and duly executed by such Foreign Lender claiming complete exemption from, or a reduced rate of, withholding of U.S. federal income tax on all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document. Such forms shall be delivered by each such Foreign Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement. In addition, each such Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it may do so under applicable law, deliver such forms immediately prior to the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Foreign Lender. Each such Foreign Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower at any time it determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered certificate (or any other form of certification adopted by the U.S. taxing authorities for such purpose).
 
(f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by one of the Borrowers or with respect to which one of the Borrowers has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17, it shall pay over such refund to the Applicable Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Applicable Borrower under this Section 2.17 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); that the Applicable Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Applicable Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to either of the Borrowers or any other Person.
provided
SECTION 2.18. . (a) Each of the Borrowers shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.15, 2.16 or 2.17, or otherwise) prior to 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, except payments to be made directly to an Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans
 
or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by either of the Borrowers pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each of the Borrowers consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Applicable Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Applicable Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Applicable Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or an Issuing Bank hereunder that the Applicable Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Applicable Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to such Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Applicable Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
SECTION 2.19. . (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if either of the Borrowers is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
 
Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to file any certificate or document reasonably requested by the Borrower or to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such filing, designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such filing, designation or assignment.
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if either of the Borrowers is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Commitment is being assigned, each Issuing Bank), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.15 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, the Borrower reasonably expects that such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments under Section 2.15 or 2.17 in the future or a reduced risk of such compensation or payments being claimed or required in the future. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
SECTION 3.01. . Each of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (to the extent that such concept applies) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers
 
SECTION 3.02. . The Transactions are within the Borrowers' corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrowers, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability
SECTION 3.03. . The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except (i) such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (ii) filings necessary to perfect Liens created under the Credit Documents and (iii) other consents, approvals, registrations and filings the failure to obtain which could not reasonably be expected (individually or in the aggregate) to have a Material Adverse Effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any material indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except Liens created under the Credit Documents.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts
SECTION 3.04. . (a) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, reported on by Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, and (ii) as of and for the fiscal quarter and the portion of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower (which includes its consolidated Subsidiaries) as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year end audit adjustments and condensed footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change
(b) Since December 31, 2005, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations, prospects or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
SECTION 3.05. . (a) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes.
Properties
(b) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
SECTION 3.06. . (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) which could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that, as of the Effective Date, involve this Agreement or the Transactions.
Litigation and Environmental Matters
(b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
(c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.07. . Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements
SECTION 3.08. . Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status
SECTION 3.09. . Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
SECTION 3.10. . No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The present value of all accumulated benefit obligations under each Plan (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed by more than $5,000,000 the fair market value of the assets of such Plan, and the present value of all accumulated benefit obligations of all underfunded Plans (based on the assumptions used for
ERISA
 
purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed by more than $10,000,000 the fair market value of the assets of all such underfunded Plans.
SECTION 3.11. . The Borrower has disclosed to the Lenders all matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Information Memorandum nor any of the other reports, financial statements, certificates or other written information furnished by or (to the knowledge of the Borrower) on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) on or prior to the Effective Date, when taken as a whole, as of the date furnished, nor any of the reports, financial statements, certificates and other written information furnished pursuant to Article V hereof (or otherwise in connection with this Agreement) after the Effective Date, when taken as a whole, as of the date furnished, contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time (it being understood that the projected financial information is subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Borrower's control, that the Borrower gives no assurance such projections will be realized and that actual results may differ from those in the projected financial information and such differences may be material).
Disclosure
provided
SECTION 3.12. . The security interests created in favor of the Collateral Agent, as pledgee, for the benefit of the Secured Creditors, under each Pledge Agreement constitute perfected security interests in the Pledge Agreement Collateral described in such Pledge Agreement under the governing law of the Agreement, subject to no security interests of any other Person, except as permitted by such Pledge Agreement. No filings or recordings (other than filings or recordings that have been made) are required in order to perfect (or maintain the perfection or priority of) the security interests created in the Pledge Agreement Collateral under any Pledge Agreement other than with respect to that portion of the Pledge Agreement Collateral constituting a "general intangible" under the UCC.
Security Documents
SECTION 3.13. . As of the Effective Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 3.13. Schedule 3.13 correctly sets forth, as of the Effective Date, (i) the percentage ownership (direct or indirect) of the Borrower in each class of capital stock or other equity of its Subsidiaries and also identifies the direct owner thereof, and (ii) the jurisdiction of organization of each such Subsidiary. Schedule 3.13 correctly identifies those Subsidiaries which constitute Material Subsidiaries as of the Effective Date.
Subsidiaries
SECTION 3.14. In the ordinary course of its business, the officers of the Borrower consider the effect of Environmental Laws on the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which they identify and evaluate potential risks and liabilities accruing to the Borrower due to Environmental Laws. On the basis of this
Environmental Matters.
 
consideration, the Borrower has concluded that Environmental Laws cannot reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary has received any notice to the effect that its operations are not in material compliance with any of the requirements of applicable Environmental Laws or are the subject of any federal or state investigation evaluating whether any remedial action is needed to respond to a release of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment, which non-compliance or remedial action could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 4.01. . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party to this Agreement and the Affirmation either (i) a counterpart of such Credit Document signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of such Credit Document) that such party has signed a counterpart of such Credit Document.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of (i) Sidley Austin LLP, counsel for the Borrowers, (ii) general counsel for the Borrower, and (iii) local counsel to the Borrowers in such jurisdictions as the Administrative Agent shall request, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel. The Borrowers hereby request such counsel to deliver such opinion.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Borrowers, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Borrowers, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out of pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
 
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received copies of all Governmental Authority and third party approvals necessary or, in the reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent, advisable in connection with the Transactions and all other documents reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent.
(g) The Administrative Agent shall have received projections for the Borrower for the fiscal years through December 31, 2010, including a consolidated balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. All Loans, if any, under the Existing Credit Agreement shall, upon the Effective Date, be deemed to have been made under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 9.02) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 30, 2006 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time).
SECTION 4.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable (except any such representation or warranty that expressly relates to or is made expressly as of a specific earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and correct with respect to or as of such specific earlier date).
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
 
SECTION 5.01. . The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Financial Statements and Other Information
(a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent registered public accounting firm of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit unless such scope exception pertains to schedules that are outside the requirements of generally accepted auditing standards in the United States of America) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP applied consistently with the audited financial statements for the prior fiscal year (except as otherwise described in a certificate delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(c));
(b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statement of operations as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and its statement of cash flows for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and condensed footnotes;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.09 and 6.10 and (iii) describing any change in GAAP or in the application thereof since the date of the audited financial statements for the prior fiscal year which has had a material effect on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
(d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be; and
 
(e) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
Any report, proxy statements or other material required to be delivered pursuant to clause (e) of this Section shall be deemed to have been furnished to each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders on the date that such report, proxy statement or other material is posted on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at www.sec.gov; that the Borrower will furnish paper copies of such reports, proxy statements and materials to any Lender that requests, by notice to the Borrower, that the Borrower do so, until the Borrower receives notice from such Lender to cease delivering such paper copies.
provided
SECTION 5.02. . The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000,000; and
(d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03.
Existence; Conduct of Business
provided
SECTION 5.04. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations
 
SECTION 5.05. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts, subject to such deductibles and self-insurance retentions (a) required to repair or replace all damaged or destroyed property material to the conduct of its business, and (b) against liability for such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations.
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance
SECTION 5.06. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries in all material respects are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers, all at such reasonable times during regular business hours and as often as reasonably requested.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights
SECTION 5.07. . The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
SECTION 5.08. . The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, non-hostile acquisitions otherwise permitted hereby, the refinancing of indebtedness and working capital. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. Letters of Credit will be issued only to support the ordinary course of business operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit
SECTION 5.09. . (a) The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, at the expense of the Borrower, make, execute, endorse, acknowledge, file and/or deliver to the Collateral Agent from time to time such schedules, confirmatory assignments, conveyances, financing statements, transfer endorsements, powers of attorney, certificates, reports, and other assurances or instruments and take such further steps relating to the Collateral covered by any of the Security Documents as the Collateral Agent may reasonably require and as are generally consistent with the terms of this Agreement and the Security Documents. Furthermore, the Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, deliver to the Collateral Agent such opinions of counsel and other related documents as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent to assure compliance with this Section 5.09.
Further Assurances; etc
(b) The Borrower agrees that each action required by clause (a) of this Section 5.09 shall be completed as soon as reasonably practical, but in no event later than 30 days (or such greater number of days as the Collateral Agent may agree) after such action is requested to be taken by the Collateral Agent, the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders.
 
(c) If, following a change in the relevant sections of the Code or the regulations, rules, rulings, notices or other official pronouncements issued or promulgated thereunder, the Borrower does not within 30 days after a request from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders deliver evidence, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which evidence may be in the form of an opinion of counsel), with respect to any Foreign Subsidiary of the Borrower which has not already had all of its stock pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreements that (i) a pledge of 66-2/3% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of capital stock of such Foreign Subsidiary entitled to vote and (ii) the entering into by such Foreign Subsidiary of a guaranty in substantially the form of the Subsidiary Guaranty, in any such case could reasonably be expected to cause (I) any undistributed earnings of such Foreign Subsidiary or its parent as determined for Federal income tax purposes to be treated as a deemed dividend to such Foreign Subsidiary's direct or indirect United States parent for Federal income tax purposes or (II) other Federal income tax consequences to the Credit Parties having an adverse financial consequence to any Credit Party in any material respect, then in the case of a failure to deliver the evidence described in clause (i) above, that portion of such Foreign Subsidiary's outstanding capital stock not theretofore pledged pursuant to the Pledge Agreements shall be promptly pledged to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors pursuant to the Pledge Agreements (or another pledge agreement in substantially similar form, if needed), and in the case of a failure to deliver the evidence described in clause (ii) above such Foreign Subsidiary shall promptly execute and deliver the Subsidiary Guaranty (or another guaranty in substantially similar form, if needed), guaranteeing the obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Documents and under any Swap Agreement entered into with a Secured Creditor, in each case to the extent that the entering into of a Pledge Agreement or Subsidiary Guaranty is permitted by the laws of the respective foreign jurisdiction and with all documents delivered pursuant to this Section 5.09(c) to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
SECTION 5.10. . Except as otherwise permitted pursuant to a Permitted Acquisition consummated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower will directly or indirectly own 100% of the capital stock or other equity interests of each of its Subsidiaries (other than (a) as a result of investments permitted pursuant to Section 6.04(i), and (b) in the case of Foreign Subsidiaries, director's qualifying shares and/or other nominal amounts of shares required to be held by Persons other than the Borrower and its Subsidiaries under applicable law).
Ownership of Subsidiaries; etc
SECTION 5.11. .
Additional Guarantors and Collateral
(a) Effective upon any Domestic Subsidiary which is not, as of the date hereof, a Material Subsidiary becoming a Material Subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such Domestic Subsidiary to, within ten (10) Business Days execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors a joinder to the Subsidiary Guaranty. The Borrower shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent at any time at which any such Domestic Subsidiary becomes a Material Subsidiary.
 
(b) Effective upon any Foreign Subsidiary of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor which is not, as of the date hereof, a Material Subsidiary held directly by the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Domestic Subsidiary ("") becoming a First Tier Material Foreign Subsidiary, the Borrower or Subsidiary Guarantor shall pledge to the Collateral Agent for the benefit of the Secured Creditors a first priority security interest in the Equity Interests of such Foreign Subsidiary owned by such Person (up to 65% of the total Equity Interests of such Person in the aggregate) pursuant to a pledge agreement substantially similar to the Pledge Agreements, and other documentation reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent. The Borrower shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent at any time any such Foreign Subsidiary becomes a First Tier Material Foreign Subsidiary.
First Tier Material Foreign Subsidiary
(c) If at any time the aggregate assets of all Subsidiaries of the Borrower that are not Subsidiary Guarantors and of which none of the capital stock has been pledged pursuant to the Security Documents (any such Subsidiary, a "") exceed ten percent (10%) of the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, then the Borrower shall cause one or more of such Non-Subject Subsidiaries to promptly execute a Subsidiary Guaranty and/or pledge 65% of the Equity Interests of one or more such Non-Subject Subsidiaries so that either (i) the aggregate assets of all Non-Subject Subsidiaries do not exceed ten percent (10%) of the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or (ii) all Domestic Subsidiaries have executed a Subsidiary Guaranty and 65% of the capital stock of all Foreign Subsidiaries held directly by any Borrower or Domestic Subsidiary has been pledged.
Non-Subject Subsidiary
(d) Subject to Section 5.11(c), at any time when no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, upon the request of the Borrower and delivery by Borrower of evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that any Subsidiary Guarantor is no longer a Material Subsidiary, the Administrative Agent shall release such Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Indebtedness
(a) Indebtedness created hereunder;
(b) Indebtedness existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.01 and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
 
(c) Indebtedness of (i) either Borrower to the other Borrower or any Subsidiary or (ii) any Subsidiary to either Borrower or any other Subsidiary;
(d) Guarantees by the Borrower of Indebtedness of any Subsidiary and by any Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
(e) Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets, including Capital Lease Obligations, Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such assets or secured by a Lien on any such assets prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; that (i) such Indebtedness is incurred prior to or within 90 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (e) shall not exceed $25,000,000 at any time outstanding;
provided
(f) Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary arising from the honoring by a bank or other financial institution of a check, draft or similar instrument inadvertently (except in the case of daylight overdrafts) drawn against insufficient funds in the ordinary course of business; that such Indebtedness is repaid within two Business Days after being incurred;
provided
(g) Indebtedness of SPCs incurred in connection with Permitted Securitizations; that the aggregate outstanding amount of such Receivables Transaction Attributed Indebtedness shall at no time exceed $75,000,000;
provided
(h) Indebtedness not to exceed $100,000,000 pursuant to one or more synthetic lease arrangements with respect to office facilities of the Borrower or any of its Domestic Subsidiaries in Santa Barbara, California;
(i) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof; that (i) such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (i) shall not exceed $25,000,000 at any time outstanding; and
provided
(j) Other Indebtedness; that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the Borrower's Subsidiaries (other than the Subsidiary Borrower) permitted by this clause (j) shall not exceed $50,000,000 at any time outstanding.
provided
SECTION 6.02. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
Liens
(a) Permitted Encumbrances;
 
(b) any Lien on any property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.02; that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
provided
(c) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
provided
(d) Liens on fixed or capital assets acquired, constructed or improved by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (e) of Section 6.01, (ii) such security interests and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within 90 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, (iii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed or capital assets and (iv) such security interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
provided
(e) Liens created pursuant to the Security Documents;
(f) customary restrictions on transfers of assets contained in agreements related to the sale by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of such assets pending their sale; that such restrictions apply only to the assets to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder;
provided
(g) Liens upon assets of an SPC granted in connection with a Permitted Securitization (including customary backup Liens granted by the transferor in accounts receivable and related rights transferred to an SPC);
(h) customary purchase options, calls or similar rights held by partners or other equity holders relating to AppSwing Ltd. or investments permitted by Section 6.04(b), (h) or (i); and
(i) Other Liens securing Indebtedness at no time exceeding $25,000,000 in aggregate principal amount.
SECTION 6.03. . (a) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing (i) any Person may merge into the Borrower in a transaction in which the Borrower is the surviving corporation, (ii) any Person may merge into any Subsidiary or any Subsidiary may
Fundamental Changes
 
merge into any Person, in either case, in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary (and, if any such Subsidiary is a Guarantor, then the surviving entity shall also be a Guarantor), (iii) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Borrower determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders, and (iv) any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate to effect an Asset Disposition permitted pursuant to Section 6.03(b)(i) or (ii); that any such merger described in clause (i), (ii) or (iv) above involving a Person that is not a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger shall not be permitted unless also permitted by Section 6.04.
provided
(b) The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, make any Asset Disposition except for (i) Asset Dispositions between or among the Borrower and one or more Subsidiaries, (ii) Asset Dispositions between or among Subsidiaries of the Borrower, (iii) Asset Dispositions expressly permitted by Sections 6.02, 6.04, 6.06 and 6.07, (iv) other Asset Dispositions of property that, together with all other property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries previously leased, sold or disposed of in Asset Dispositions made pursuant to this Section 6.03(b)(iv) during the twelve-month period ending with the month in which any such lease, sale or other disposition occurs, do not constitute a Substantial Portion of the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, and (v) transfers of accounts receivable (and rights ancillary thereto) pursuant to, and in accordance with the terms of, a Permitted Securitization; that the Receivables Transaction Attributed Indebtedness pursuant to Permitted Securitizations may at no time exceed $75,000,000.
provided
(c) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage to any material extent in any business other than businesses of the type conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date of execution of this Agreement and businesses reasonably similar, complementary, ancillary or related thereto.
SECTION 6.04. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with any Person that was not a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary prior to such merger) any capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) of, make or permit to exist any loans or advances to, Guarantee any obligations of, or make or permit to exist any investment or any other interest in, any other Person, or purchase or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or a series of transactions) any assets of any other Person constituting a business unit, except:
Investments, Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Acquisitions
(a) Permitted Investments;
(b) investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries existing on the date hereof in the capital stock of their respective Subsidiaries and AppSwing Ltd., Nasdaq Stock Market, BioPassword, Inc., Azure Venture Partners I, L.P. and Azure Capital Partners II, L.P. stock or limited partnership interests and future investments in Subsidiaries;
(c) the contribution, sale, transfer or other disposition of the capital stock of any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
 
(d) loans or advances made by the Borrower to any Subsidiary and made by any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, to the extent that such Indebtedness is permitted by Section 6.01;
(e) Guarantees constituting Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01;
(f) investments received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of, or settlement of delinquent accounts and disputes with, customers and suppliers;
(g) accounts receivable arising in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower and any Subsidiaries;
(h) subject to the provisions of this Section 6.04(h) and the requirements contained in the definition of Permitted Acquisition, the Borrower and its Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries may from time to time effect Permitted Acquisitions, so long as: (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of the consummation of the proposed Permitted Acquisition or immediately after giving effect thereto; (ii) if the proposed Permitted Acquisition is for aggregate consideration of $100,000,000 or more, the Borrower shall have given to the Administrative Agent written notice of such proposed Permitted Acquisition on the earlier of (x) the date on which the Permitted Acquisition is publicly announced and (y) ten (10) Business Days prior to consummation of such Permitted Acquisition (or such shorter period of time as may be reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent), which notice shall be executed by its chief financial officer or treasurer and shall describe in reasonable detail the principal terms and conditions of such Permitted Acquisition; and (iii) at the time of any such Permitted Acquisition involving the creation or acquisition of a Subsidiary, or the acquisition of capital stock or other Equity Interest of any Person, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall have complied with Section 5.11; and
(i) investments by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the Equity Interests of any Person, or loans and advances made by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Person, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding (with the outstanding amount of investments in the Equity Interests of any Person at any time being an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the aggregate amount of such investments over the aggregate amount of dividends, distributions or sale proceeds received by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in respect thereof).
SECTION 6.05. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Swap Agreement, except (a) Swap Agreements entered into to hedge or mitigate risks to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary has actual exposure (other than those in respect of Equity Interests of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries), (b) Swap Agreements entered into in order to effectively cap, collar or exchange interest rates (from fixed to floating rates, from one floating rate to another floating rate or otherwise) with respect to any interest-bearing liability or investment of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (c) Swap Agreements entered into in connection with the Borrower's stock repurchase program approved by its board of directors in the ordinary course of business, and (d) Swap Agreements which constitute Permitted Investments.
Swap Agreements
 
SECTION 6.06. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except (a) the Borrower may declare and pay dividends with respect to its Equity Interests payable solely in additional shares of its common stock, (b) Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends or returns of capital ratably with respect to their Equity Interests, (c) the Borrower may make Restricted Payments pursuant to and in accordance with stock option plans or other benefit plans for management or employees of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (d) so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, the Borrower may make Restricted Payments pursuant to stock repurchase programs approved by its board of directors in the ordinary course of its business and (e) so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom, the Borrower may make other Restricted Payments not exceeding in any calendar year ten percent (10%) of Consolidated Net Worth as of the end of the prior calendar year.
Restricted Payments
SECTION 6.07. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) transactions between or among the Borrower and its Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries or between or among the Borrower's Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, in either case not involving any other Affiliate and (c) any Restricted Payment permitted by Section 6.06 and (d) payment of customary fees to members of the board of directors of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries.
Transactions with Affiliates
SECTION 6.08. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets, or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of its capital stock or to make or repay loans or advances to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or to Guarantee Indebtedness of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary; that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or by this Agreement, (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof identified on Schedule 6.08 (but shall apply to any extension or renewal of, or any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such restriction or condition), (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary pending such sale; that such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (iv) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness and (v) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in licenses, government permits, leases and other contracts restricting the assignment thereof.
Restrictive Agreements
provided
provided
 
SECTION 6.09. . The Borrower will not permit the Interest Coverage Ratio for any fiscal quarter of the Borrower to be less than or equal to 2.50:1.00.
Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio
SECTION 6.10. . The Borrower will cause the Leverage Ratio to be less than 3.00 to 1.00 at all times.
Maximum Leverage Ratio
SECTION 6.11. . The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, change its fiscal year to end on any date other than December 31 of each year.
Fiscal Year
SECTION 6.12. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, make any amendment or modification to the indenture, note or other agreement evidencing or governing any subordinated Indebtedness or directly or indirectly voluntarily prepay, defease or in substance defease, purchase, redeem, retire or otherwise acquire, any subordinated Indebtedness. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly voluntarily prepay, defease or in substance defease, purchase, redeem, retire or otherwise acquire, any single Indebtedness that constitutes a Material Indebtedness or collective Indebtedness that constitutes Material Indebtedness or any subordinated Indebtedness prior to the date when due (other than its obligations hereunder) while a Default has occurred and is continuing or in violation of any relevant term of subordination.
Subordinated Indebtedness; Other Indebtedness and Payments
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) any of the Borrowers shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement or any cash collateral amount due pursuant to Section 2.06(j) when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) any of the Borrowers shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
 
(d) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to the Borrower's existence) or 5.08 or in Article VI;
(e) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
(f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable (after expiration of any applicable grace periods);
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
 
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $10,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding (i) $10,000,000 in any year or (ii) $25,000,000 for all periods;
(m) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(n) except as otherwise provided in Section 6.03(a), the Parent Guaranty, the Subsidiary Guaranty or any provisions thereof shall cease to be in full force or effect as to the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or the Borrower, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any Person acting for or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall deny or disaffirm the Borrower's or such Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under the Parent Guaranty or the Subsidiary Guaranty, as applicable;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to either of the Borrowers described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers; and in case of any event with respect to either of the Borrowers described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers.
SECTION 8.01. .
The Administrative Agent
(a) Each of the Lenders and each Issuing Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
 
(b) The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (i) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (ii) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (iii) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by either Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (v) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (w) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (x) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (y) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (z) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
(e) The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
(f) Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
(g) Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
SECTION 8.02. .
Administrative Agent as UK Security Trustee
(a) In this Agreement, any rights and remedies exercisable by, any documents to be delivered to, or any other indemnities or obligations in favor of the Administrative Agent shall be, as the case may be, exercisable by, delivered to, or be indemnities or other obligations in favor of, the Administrative Agent (or any other Person acting in such capacity) in its capacity as the UK Security Trustee to the extent that the rights, deliveries, indemnities or other obligations relate to the Pledge Agreement governed by English law or the security thereby created. Any obligations of the Administrative Agent (or any other Person acting in such
 
capacity) in this Agreement shall be obligations of the Administrative Agent in its capacity as UK Security Trustee to the extent that the obligations relate to the Pledge Agreement governed by English law or the security thereby created. Additionally, in its capacity as UK Security Trustee, the Administrative Agent (or any Person acting in such capacity) shall have all the rights, remedies, and benefits in favor of the Administrative Agent contained in the provisions of the whole of this Article VIII and, subject always to the provisions of the Pledge Agreement governed by English law, (i) all the powers of an absolute owner of the security constituted by the Pledge Agreement governed by English law and (ii) all the rights, remedies and powers granted to it and be subject to all the obligations and duties owed by it under the Pledge Agreement governed by English law and/or any of the Credit Documents.
(b) Each Lender and the Administrative Agent hereby appoint the UK Security Trustee to act as its trustee under and in relation to the Pledge Agreement governed by English law and to hold the assets subject to the security thereby created as trustee for the Administrative Agent and Lenders on the trusts and other terms contained in the Pledge Agreement governed by English law and the Administrative Agent and each Lender hereby irrevocably authorize the UK Security Trustee to exercise such rights, remedies, powers and discretions as are specifically delegated to the UK Security Trustee by the terms of the Pledge Agreement governed by English law together with all such rights, remedies, powers and discretions as are reasonably incidental thereto.
(c) Any reference in this Agreement to Liens stated to be in favor of the Administrative Agent shall be construed so as to include a reference to Liens granted in favor of the UK Security Trustee.
(d) The Lenders agree that at any time that the UK Security Trustee shall be a Person other than the Administrative Agent, such other Person shall have the rights, remedies, benefits and powers granted to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as the UK Security Trustee in this Agreement.
(e) Nothing in this Section 8.02 shall require the UK Security Trustee to act as a trustee at common law or to be holding any property on trust, in any jurisdiction outside the United States or the United Kingdom which may not operate under principles of trust or where such trust would not be recognized or its effects would not be enforceable.
SECTION 9.01. . (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(i) if to the Borrower or the Subsidiary Borrower, to it at:
851 West Cypress Creek Road
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33309
Attention: Karen Leopardi
Telecopy No.: (954) 267-2501
E-mail: karen.leopardi@citrix.com
 
With a copy to:
Attention: General Counsel
Telecopy No.: (954) 267-3101;
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent, to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan and Operations
10 S. Dearborn Street, Floor 19
Chicago, Illinois 60603
Attention: April Yebd
Telecopy No.: (312) 732-4864
E-mail: april.yebd@jpmchase.com;
(iii) if to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as an Issuing Bank, to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Letter of Credit Group
131 S. Dearborn Street
Mail Code: IL1-0236
Chicago, Illinois 60670
Attention: Evelyn D. Abbasi
Telecopy No.: (312) 954-5986;
(iv) if to the Swingline Lender, c/o the Administrative Agent at the address set forth in clause (ii) above; and
(v) if to any other Lender or Issuing Bank, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
(b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
 
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
SECTION 9.02. . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrowers therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments
(b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, (other than with respect to the waiver or discontinuance of default interest owed pursuant to Section 2.13(c), which shall require the consent of the Required Lenders only) or reduce any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.18(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender, or (vi) release all or substantially all of the Collateral or, except in connection with a transaction permitted by Section 6.03, release any Subsidiary Guarantor (which at the time of such release is a Material Subsidiary) from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender; further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be.
provided
provided
 
(c) If, in connection with any proposed waiver, amendment or modification of any of the provisions of this Agreement as contemplated by clauses (i) through (vi) of Section 9.02(b), the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained but the consent of one or more of such other Lenders whose consent is required is not obtained, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Commitment is being assigned, each Issuing Bank), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld and (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts).
provided
SECTION 9.03. . (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its
Indemnitee
 
Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and non-appealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or arise out of a proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Borrower against such indemnified person for breach in bad faith of such indemnified person's obligations hereunder that results in a final, non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction against such indemnified person.
provided
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrowers shall not assert, and hereby waive, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable within ten (10) Business Days after written demand therefor and, in the case of any expenses referred to in paragraph (a), upon presentation of invoices or other reasonably detailed statements specifying such expenses
SECTION 9.04. . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrowers may not assign or otherwise transfer any of their respective rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrowers without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
 
(b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
(A) the Borrower; that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender (which Affiliate is either a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code or is a Qualifying Lender), an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee;
provided
(B) the Administrative Agent; that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment of any Commitment to an assignee that is a Lender immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment; and
provided
(C) each Issuing Bank.
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans of any Class, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent; that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement; that this clause shall not be construed to prohibit the assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations in respect of one Class of Commitments or Loans;
provided
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500;
(D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more Credit Contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its affiliates, the Credit Parties and their related parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws; and
 
(E) no more than ten Persons which are not Qualifying Lenders shall at any time be Lenders under this Agreement.
For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "" has the following meaning:
Approved Fund
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code and that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, the Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the
 
Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(c), 2.06(d) or (e), 2.07(b), 2.18(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
provided
(c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrowers agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.18(c) as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
provided
(ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15 or 2.17 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.17(e) as though it were a Lender.
(d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
 
SECTION 9.05. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrowers herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the Fee Letter, dated August 10, 2006, between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
SECTION 9.07. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
SECTION 9.08. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of either of the Borrowers against any of and all the obligations of such Person now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made
Right of Setoff
 
any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
SECTION 9.09. . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(b) Each of the Borrowers hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrowers or their properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each of the Borrowers hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
SECTION 9.10. . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
SECTION 9.11. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
SECTION 9.12. . Each of the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and each Lender agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to either of the Borrowers and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower; that, in the case of information received from the Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality
Information
provided
EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION (AS DEFINED ABOVE) FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE BORROWER AND ITS AFFILIATES AND THEIR RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER
 
REPRESENTS TO THE BORROWER AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW.
SECTION 9.13. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
SECTION 9.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act") hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies such Person, which information includes the name and address of each of the Borrowers and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrowers in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
SECTION 9.15. . (a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Conversion of Currencies
(b) The obligations of the Borrowers in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "Applicable Creditor") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the "Agreement Currency"), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, each Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss. The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section 9.15 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
 
SECTION 9.16. .
Amendment and Restatement
(a) On the Effective Date, the Existing Credit Agreement shall be amended, restated and superseded in its entirety hereby. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that (i) this Agreement, any notes delivered pursuant to Section 2.10(g) and the other Credit Documents executed and delivered in connection herewith do not constitute a novation or termination of the obligations under the Existing Credit Agreement as in effect prior to the Effective Date and (ii) such obligations are in all respects continuing with only the terms thereof being modified as provided in this Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding the modifications effected by this Agreement of the representations, warranties and covenants of the Borrowers contained in the Existing Credit Agreement, the Borrowers acknowledge and agree that any causes of action or other rights created in favor of any Lender and its successors arising out of the representations, warranties and covenants of the Borrowers contained in or delivered (including representations, warranties and covenants delivered in connection with the making of the loans or other extensions of credit thereunder) in connection with the Existing Credit Agreement shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement; , however, that it is understood and agreed that the Borrowers' monetary obligations under the Existing Credit Agreement in respect of the loans and letters of credit thereunder shall on and after the Effective Date be evidenced by this Agreement as provided in Article II hereof.
provided
(c) All indemnification obligations of the Borrowers pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement (including any arising from a breach of the representations thereunder) shall survive the amendment and restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement pursuant to this Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between (the "") and (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
[
Insert name of Assignor
]
Assignor
[
Insert name of Assignee
]
Assignee
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
The Assignee represents and warrants that it is/is not a Qualifying Lender. In the event that the Assignee is not a Qualifying Lender, it has delivered to the Administrative Agent a Notice of Assignment to non-Qualifying Lender in the form of Annex 2 attached hereto.
[
]
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.
                    
    
    
[
]
The Assignee agrees to deliver to the Administrative Agent a completed Administrative Questionnaire in which the Assignee designates one or more Credit Contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower, its Affiliates and their related parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the Assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws.
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
ANNEX 1
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Credit Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Credit Document.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
ANNEX 2
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan and Operations
10 S. Dearborn St., Floor 19
Chicago, Illinois 60603
Attention: April Yebd
 
Reference is made to (a) the Credit Agreement and (b) the Assignment and Assumption of even date herewith by and between (the "Assignor") and (the "Assignee") with respect thereto. Notice is hereby given that the Assignee is not a Qualifying Lender, as such term is defined in the Credit Agreement.
                                        
                                        
 
EXHIBIT B
The Corporate Investment Policy, as in effect on the date hereof, is as separately provided to the Administrative Agent by counsel to the Borrower on September 5, 2006.
 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings, subject to the final paragraph of this Schedule:
"Financials" means the annual or quarterly financial statements of the Borrower delivered pursuant to the Credit Documentation.
"Level I Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, the Consolidated Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 0.50 to 1.00.
"Level II Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Borrower has not qualified for Level I status and (ii) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 1.00 to 1.00.
"Level III Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status or Level II Status and (ii) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 1.50 to 1.00.
"Level IV Status" exists at any date if, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower referred to in the most recent Financials, (i) the Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status or Level III Status and (ii) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio is less than or equal to 2.00 to 1.00.
"Level V Status" exists at any date if the Borrower has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III or Level IV Status.
"Status" means Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status, Level IV Status or Level V Status.
The Applicable Rate shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Borrower's Status as reflected in the then most recent Financials. Adjustments, if any, to the Applicable Rate shall be effective five business days after the Administrative Agent has received the applicable Financials. If the Borrower fails to deliver the Financials to the Administrative Agent at the time required pursuant to the Credit Documentation, then the Applicable Rate shall be the highest Applicable Rate set forth in the foregoing table until five days after such Financials are so delivered. Until further adjusted as described above, the initial pricing level status shall be predicated on the amount of the initial borrowings.
 
 


