FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20060420200808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 18, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Citrix Systems, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Citrix Systems, Inc. 2006 Executive Bonus Plan (the "Bonus Plan") and established bonus awards that may be earned for fiscal year 2006 under the Bonus Plan by the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer; Senior Vice President, Corporate Sales and Services; General Counsel and Corporate Vice President, Human Resources; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Vice President, EMEA Sales and General Manager; and Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group; and other executive officers approved for participation in the Bonus Plan by the Compensation Committee (each a "Participant"). The Bonus Plan establishes target bonus levels for each Participant expressed as a percentage of each Participant's base salary. The 2006 bonuses will be paid based on the achievement of certain company-wide, geographic segment and/or individual goals. The actual bonus payments may be less than or greater than the target bonus amounts depending on whether and the extent to which the goals upon which such bonuses are based are achieved. Except under certain circumstances, bonus awards are payable following the conclusion of fiscal year 2006. The Compensation Committee and/or the Board of Directors retain the right to amend, alter or terminate the Bonus Plan at any time.
The Bonus Plan is filed with this report as .
Exhibit 10.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
The purpose of the Citrix Systems, Inc. 2006 Executive Bonus Plan ("Plan") is to provide to executive officers of Citrix Systems, Inc. (the "Company") competitive compensation opportunities that are aligned with and promote the overall financial objectives of the Company and its shareholders. In addition to base salary and long-term equity awards, this will be accomplished through incentives payable in the form of cash bonuses designed to reward executives for the financial and operational success of the Company. This Plan does not govern the Company's base salary and long-term equity awards compensation practices.
 
Company executives are eligible to participate in the Plan. As of January 1, 2006, the following executives are among those who have been approved for participation in the Plan (the "Participants"):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other individuals may become Plan Participants during a fiscal year ("New Participants") provided such an individual is: (1) an executive of the Company; (2) recommended for participation by the President & CEO; and (3) approved for participation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee").
 
The Plan will be administered by the President & CEO and the Compensation Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participants will be eligible to participate in this Plan upon the recommendation of the President & CEO and approval by the Compensation Committee. A New Participant's bonus opportunity will be prorated based on the number of full and partial months remaining in the performance period at the time Plan participation is approved. New Participants approved for the Plan may be eligible to receive a bonus (prorated based on the number of full and partial months remaining in the performance period) for the achievement of individual performance measures, as recommended by the President & CEO and approved by the Compensation Committee.
 
For all Participants other than the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group and VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager, bonus awards under this Plan will be calculated based on the following financial components for purposes of performance measurement and weightings:
 
The bonus award for the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group and VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager is tied to the achievement of segment financial targets and individual goals in the following percentages:
 
Bonus awards for the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group for achievement of the financial targets component under this Plan will be calculated based on the following financial components for purposes of performance measurement and weightings:
 
Bonus awards for the VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager for achievement of the financial targets component under this Plan will be calculated based on the following financial components for purposes of performance measurement and weightings:
 
Bonus awards for the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group and VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager for achievement of the individual goals component under this Plan will be determined by the President & CEO or a direct report of the President & CEO to whom the President & CEO has delegated such authority.
Bonus awards are subject to a minimum performance requirement before any award may be
earned. The performance requirements are as follows:
 
 
 
For purposes of this Plan, Corporate Operating Income and EPS shall be calculated on an adjusted basis that specifically excludes amortization of intangible assets, write-offs of in-process research and development, charges associated with the expensing of equity-based compensation and other adjustments approved by the Compensation Committee.
Financial components and weightings will be reviewed periodically throughout the year to ensure continued alignment with the Company's business strategy and objectives. Upon the recommendation of the President & CEO and approval of the Compensation Committee, the financial components and weightings may be adjusted at such time to reflect changes in business priorities.
 
 
In the event of the under-achievement by the Company of the Financial Targets, or segment financial target (as the case may be), for each financial component category but subject to the requirements of subsections IV.C (1) and (2) above, bonus awards will be adjusted downwards from the Plan Participant's target bonus award as follows:
For all Participants other than the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group and the VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager:
 
For the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group:
 
For the VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager:
 
In the event of the over-achievement by the Company of the Financial Targets, or segment financial target (as the case may be), for each financial component category, bonus awards will be adjusted upwards but capped at a maximum of 200% of the Plan Participant's target bonus award as follows:
For all Participants other than the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group and the VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager:
 
For the Group Vice President and General Manager, Online Group:
 
For VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager:
 
 
 
 
* Including any fraction of a percent rounded to one decimal place.
and General Manager, if financial performance of all three financial components is tracking to 100% of each associated Financial Target and the EPS target is on track, then twenty-five percent (25%) of forecasted bonus awards will be paid in cash after June 30. For the Senior Vice President, Corporate Sales and Services, the Group Vice President and General Manger, Online Group and VP, EMEA Sales and General Manager, up to twenty-five percent (25%) of annual targeted bonus awards will be paid quarterly in cash based on the applicable percentage achieved of each associated Financial Target, or segment financial target (as the case may be), with a reconciliation based on final achievement of Financial Targets, or segment financial target (as the case may be), at year-end. Subject to approval by the Compensation Committee, the balance of all bonus awards will be paid in cash no later than the first quarter following the conclusion of the fiscal year to which the award relates.
 
 
 
 


