FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20070314172944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) As previously announced, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Citrix Systems, Inc. (the "Company") is conducting a voluntary review of the Company's historical stock option granting practices from 1996 to present and the related accounting.
On March 14, 2007, after discussion with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors and its independent registered accounting firm, the Company concluded that it had used incorrect measurement dates for accounting purposes for certain historical stock option grants issued during the period under review and that it will restate the financial statements described below. The Company has determined that non-cash stock-based compensation expenses should have been recorded with respect to those stock option grants and recognized over the vesting period of those options, and that the amount of such additional expenses is material.
The Company's previously issued financial statements and reports thereon for the fiscal years 2003, 2004 and 2005, which are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with respect to each of those fiscal years and the financial statements included in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of fiscal year 2006 and all earnings press releases and similar communications issued by the Company relating to such periods should no longer be relied upon. In addition, the restatement will materially affect financial statements for fiscal years prior to 2003, and the Company will reflect those adjustments as part of the opening balances in the financial statements for the restated periods. The financial statements for fiscal years prior to 2003 should also no longer be relied upon.
Because the Audit Committee's review is ongoing, the Company has not determined the final aggregate amount of additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense or the amount of such expense to be recorded in any specific prior period or in any future period. The Company has also not identified all stock option grants for which the accounting measurement dates may have been incorrectly determined. In addition, the Company expects that the expenses arising from the voluntary review, the anticipated restatements and related activities, which will be recorded in the periods incurred, will be significant.
The Company currently expects to file its restated financial statements and to become current in its filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as practicable following the completion of the Audit Committee's review.
 
Citrix issued a press release on March 14, 2007 a copy of which is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this item of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For media inquiries, contact:
Eric Armstrong, Citrix Systems, Inc.
(954) 267-2977 or eric.armstrong@citrix.com
For investor inquiries, contact:
Eduardo Fleites, Citrix Systems, Inc.
(954) 229-5758 or eduardo.fleites@citrix.com
 Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS), the global leader in application delivery infrastructure, today provided an update on its independent, voluntary stock option review.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.  March 14, 2007
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Citrix Systems, Inc. has reached a determination that incorrect measurement dates were used to account for certain historical stock option grants during the period under review. The Company expects that the difference in these measurement dates will result in material non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses. Accordingly, on March 14, 2007, the Company's Audit Committee, after consultation with the Company's management, Board of Directors and the Company's independent registered public accounting firm, determined that the Company's previously issued financial statements and reports thereon, earnings releases and other historical financial information and related disclosures should no longer be relied upon. Consequently, the Company will restate previously issued financial statements as necessary.
The Audit Committee has not completed its investigation or reached any final conclusion. However, it has found nothing to date that would cause it to conclude that there was intentional wrongdoing by a current executive of the Company.
The Company also reported that it will further delay the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 beyond March 16, 2007.
About Citrix
Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS) is the global leader and the most trusted name in application delivery infrastructure. More than 180,000 organizations worldwide rely on Citrix to deliver any application to users anywhere with the best performance, highest security and lowest cost. Citrix customers include 100% of the Fortune 100 companies and 98% of the Fortune Global 500, as well as hundreds of thousands of small businesses and prosumers. Citrix has approximately 6,200 channel and alliance partners in more than 100 countries. Annual revenue in 2006 was $1.1 billion.
For Citrix Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute promises or guarantees of future performance, but involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements include, but are not limited to, the preliminary nature of the financial information contained in this press release, the ongoing status of the Audit Committee's review of the Company's stock option granting practices, review by the Company's independent outside auditors and possible regulatory review of the financial accounting determinations ultimately made by the Company with respect to the measurement dates used for stock option grants issued by the Company, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the review and its possible conclusions may adversely impact the Company. Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
 
Citrix is a registered trademark of Citrix Systems, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.


