FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20080714083020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE S
ECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported):    (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
July 10, 2008
CITRIX SYSTEMS, INC.
(Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code) (Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report)
(954) 267-3000
Not Applicable
(General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d)
Election of Nanci Caldwell to the Board of Directors
On July 10, 2008 the Board of Directors of Citrix Systems, Inc. (the Company) elected Nanci Caldwell, the former Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Peoplesoft, which was acquired by Oracle in January 2005, to its Board of Directors.  On July 14, 2008, the Company issued a press release regarding Ms. Caldwells election.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Ms. Caldwell was appointed to each of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)      Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Citrix Appoints Nanci Caldwell to Board of Directors
Former PeopleSoft CMO to Join Citrix Board
Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS), the global leader in application delivery infrastructure, today announced the appointment of a new director, Nanci Caldwell, former executive vice president and chief marketing officer for PeopleSoft, to its board of directors, effective immediately.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.  July 14, 2008 
Caldwells marketing role at PeopleSoft included corporate, product, industry, service, support and field.  Prior to joining PeopleSoft in 2001, she spent 19 years at HP where she held a number of senior management positions including vice president and group marketing manager, global services; vice president and general manager, North America enterprise computing sales organization; vice president enterprise marketing and global sales programs; vice president and general manager, HP Canada.
Nancis experience in enterprise marketing and sales brings a strong customer and industry perspective to the Citrix board of directors, said Mark Templeton, president and chief executive officer for Citrix. We are honored to have Nanci joining the board.
Caldwell is also a member of the board of directors for Deltek Systems, Inc., LiveOps, Inc., and Sophos Plc. Caldwell also served as a member of the board of directors of Hyperion Solutions and Network General.
With the election of Caldwell, Citrixs board of directors now includes: Thomas Bogan, former president and chief operating officer, Rational Software; Murray Demo, former chief financial officer, Adobe; Stephen Dow, general partner, Sevin Rosen Funds; Asiff Hirji, chief operating officer, TD Ameritrade; Gary Morin, former executive vice president and chief financial officer, Lexmark; Godfrey Sullivan, former president and chief executive officer, Hyperion; and Mark Templeton, president and chief executive officer, Citrix Systems.
Caldwell will serve on the nominating and corporate governance committee, and the compensation committee.
About Citrix
Citrix Systems, Inc. (Nasdaq:CTXS) is the global leader and the most trusted name in application delivery infrastructure. More than 215,000 organizations worldwide rely on Citrix to deliver any application to users anywhere with the best performance, highest security and lowest cost. Citrix customers include 100 percent of the Fortune 100 companies and 99 percent of the Fortune Global 500, as well as hundreds of thousands of small businesses and prosumers. Citrix has approximately 7,680 channel and alliance partners in more than 100 countries. Annual revenue in 2007 was $1.4 billion.
For Citrix Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance.  Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with revenue growth and recognition of revenue, products, their development and distribution, product demand and pipeline, economic and competitive factors, the Companys key strategic relationships, acquisition and related integration risks as well as other risks detailed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Citrix is a registered trademarks of Citrix Systems, Inc. and/or one or more of its subsidiaries, and may be registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.
Eric Armstrong, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 267-2977 or eric.armstrong@citrix.com
For media inquiries, contact:
Eduardo Fleites, Citrix Systems, Inc. (954) 229-5778 or eduardo.fleites@citrix.com
For investor inquiries, contact:


