FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20080723160535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 23, 2008, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Citrix Reports Second Quarter Earnings Results
Year-over-year Quarterly Revenue Growth of 17%
GAAP Diluted Earnings Per Share of $0.18
Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings Per Share of $0.38
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Citrix Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:CTXS), the global leader in Application Delivery Infrastructure, today reported financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 ended June 30, 2008.
Financial Results
In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, Citrix achieved revenue of $392 million, compared to $334 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, representing 17 percent revenue growth.
GAAP Results
Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was $35 million, or $0.18 per diluted share, compared to $53 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2007.
Non-GAAP Results
Non-GAAP net income in the second quarter of 2008 increased two percent to $71 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, compared to $70 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in the comparable period last year. Non-GAAP net income excludes the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, stock-based compensation expenses and the tax effects related to those items.
Im delighted with another solid quarter, said Mark Templeton, president and chief executive officer of Citrix. We saw double digit revenue growth in each of our geographic segments, and we achieved our non-GAAP EPS targets. Overall a great quarter in a tough macro-economic environment.
Q2 Financial Highlights
In reviewing the second quarter results of 2008, compared to the second quarter of 2007:
Product license revenue increased 12 percent;
Revenue from license updates grew 16 percent;
Online services increased 23 percent;
Technical services revenue, which is comprised of consulting, education and technical support, grew 34 percent;
Revenue grew in the EMEA region by 22 percent; the Americas region by 13 percent, and the Pacific region by 11 percent;
Deferred revenue totaled $476 million, compared to $395 million on June 30, 2007;
Operating margin was seven percent for the quarter; non-GAAP operating margin was 21 percent for the quarter, excluding the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations and stock-based compensation expense;
Cash flow from operations was $75 million, bringing the total 12 month trailing cash flow from operations to $379 million; and,
Repurchased shares for the quarter were 2.1 million shares at an average price paid per share of $33.50.
Financial Outlook for Third Quarter 2008
Citrix management expects to achieve the following results during its third fiscal quarter of 2008 ending September 30, 2008:
Net revenue is expected to be in the range of $385 million to $400 million, compared to $350 million in the third quarter of 2007;
GAAP diluted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.12 to $0.16. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.36 to $0.39, excluding $0.09 related to the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations and $0.14 to $0.15 related to the effects of stock-based compensation expenses.
The above statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
Financial Outlook for Fiscal Year 2008
Citrix management expects to achieve the following results for the fiscal year 2008:
The company expects net revenue to be in the range of $1.59 billion to $1.62 billion.
The company expects GAAP diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.57 to $0.64. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.54 to $1.60, excluding $0.34 related to the effects of the amortization of intangible assets and $0.62 to $0.63 related to the effects of stock-based compensation expenses.
The above statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
Company, Product and Alliance Highlights
During the second quarter of 2008, Citrix announced:
Citrix XenDesktop 2.0 began shipping;
Citrix NetScaler MPX, which reduces datacenter costs by delivering twice as many Web applications;
A new Citrix Access Gateway release adding intelligent policy-based controls for Citrix XenDesktop;
Citrix XenServer is now factory integrated on Dell PowerEdge servers;
A new Citrix XenServer pricing model allowing unlimited virtual machines per server at a single low price; and,
Microsoft honored the company with its 2008 Microsoft Partner of the Year Global ISV  Infrastructure and 2008 Microsoft Partner for Citizenship awards.
Conference Call Information
Citrix will host a conference call today at 4:45 p.m. ET to discuss its financial results, quarterly highlights and business outlook. The call will include a slide presentation, and participants are encouraged to listen to and view the presentation via webcast at .
http://www.citrix.com/investors
The conference call may also be accessed by dialing: 888-799-0519 or 706-634-0155, using passcode: CITRIX. A replay of the webcast can be viewed by visiting the Investor Relations section of the Citrix corporate website at /investors for approximately 30 days. In addition, an audio replay of the conference call will be available for approximately fifteen days by dialing 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 (passcode required: 55194356).
http://www.citrix.com
About Citrix
Citrix Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:CTXS) is the global leader and the most trusted name in Application Delivery Infrastructure. More than 215,000 organizations worldwide rely on Citrix to deliver any application to users anywhere with the best performance, highest security and lowest cost. Citrix customers include 100 percent of the Fortune 100 companies and 99 percent of the Fortune Global 500, as well as hundreds of thousands of small businesses and prosumers. Citrix has approximately 8,000 partners in more than 100 countries. Annual revenue in 2007 was $1.4 billion.
For Citrix Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements by management, the statements contained in the Financial Outlook for Third Fiscal Quarter 2008, Financial Outlook for Fiscal Year 2008 and statements regarding managements plans, objectives and strategies, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the uncertainty in the IT spending environment and the risk of a downturn in economic conditions generally; the success and growth of the companys product lines, including risks associated with successfully introducing new products into Citrixs distribution channels; risks in effectively controlling operating expenses; the companys product concentration and its ability to develop and commercialize new products and services; disruptions due to changes in key personnel; the success of investments in its product groups, foreign operations and vertical and geographic markets; Citrixs and Microsofts ability to develop and market application delivery and virtualization products; the introduction of new products by competitors or the entry of new competitors into the markets for Citrixs products; failure to further develop and successfully market the technology and products of acquired companies, including the possible failure to achieve or maintain anticipated revenues and profits from acquisitions; failure to execute Citrixs sales and marketing plans; failure to successfully partner with key distributors, resellers, OEMs and strategic partners; the companys ability to maintain and expand its business in small sized and large enterprise accounts; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders; the effect of new accounting pronouncements on revenue and expense recognition; the companys reliance on and the success of the companys independent distributors and resellers for the marketing and distribution of the companys products and the success of the companys marketing and licensing programs; litigation; increased competition; changes in the companys pricing policies or those of its competitors; charges in the event of the impairment of assets acquired through business combinations and licenses; impairment of the value of the companys investment in auction rate securities; the management of anticipated future growth and the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, including those of acquired companies; competition and other risks associated with the markets for our Web-based access, collaboration and customer assistance services and for our Web application delivery appliances; risks of political and social turmoil; and other risks detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In our earnings release, conference call, slide presentation or webcast, we may use or discuss non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure used or discussed and a reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure are included in this press release after the condensed consolidated financial statement and can be found on the Investor Relations page of the Citrix corporate Web site at .
http://www.citrix.com/investors
Citrix, NetScaler, Citrix XenDesktop, Citrix Access Gateway and Citrix XenServer are trademarks of Citrix Systems, Inc. and/or one or more of its subsidiaries, and may be registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Comparable U.S. GAAP Measures (Unaudited)
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the company has provided a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure used in this earnings release and related conference call, slide presentation or webcast to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. These measures differ from GAAP in that they exclude amortization primarily related to business combinations and stock-based compensation expenses. The companys basis for these adjustments is described below.
Management uses these non-GAAP measures for internal reporting and forecasting purposes, when publicly providing its business outlook, to evaluate the companys performance and to evaluate and compensate the companys executives. The company has provided these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to GAAP financial results because it believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to certain investors and financial analysts for comparison across accounting periods not influenced by certain non-cash items that are not used by management when evaluating the companys historical and prospective financial performance. In addition, the company has historically provided this or similar information and understands that some investors and financial analysts find this information helpful in analyzing the companys gross margins, operating expenses and net income and comparing the companys financial performance to that of its peer companies and competitors.
Management excludes the expenses described above when evaluating the companys operating performance and believes that the resulting non-GAAP measures are useful to investors and financial analysts in assessing the companys operating performance due to the following factors:
The company does not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle. The company, therefore, believes that the presentation of non-GAAP measures that adjust for the impact of amortization and certain stock-based compensation expenses that are primarily related to business combinations, provide investors and financial analysts with a consistent basis for comparison across accounting periods and, therefore, are useful to investors and financial analysts in helping them to better understand the company's operating results and underlying operational trends.
Amortization costs are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition.
Although stock-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of the companys employees and executives, stock-based compensation expense and its related tax impact are generally fixed at the time of grant, are then amortized over a period of several years after the grant of the stock-based instrument, and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the grant.
These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and may differ from the non-GAAP information used by other companies. There are significant limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. The additional non-GAAP financial information presented here should be considered in conjunction with, and not as a substitute for or superior to, the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP (such as net income and earnings per share) and should not be considered measures of the companys liquidity. Furthermore, the company in the future may exclude amortization and in-process research and development primarily related to new business combinations from financial measures that it releases, and the company expects to continue to incur stock-based compensation expenses.
CONTACT: Citrix Systems, Inc., Fort Lauderdale For Media Inquiries: Eric Armstrong, 954-267-2977 or A&R Edelman Eric Jones, 212-819-4862 or For investor inquiries, contact: Citrix Systems, Inc. Eduardo Fleites, 954-229-5758
eric.armstrong@citrix.com
eric.jones@ar-edelman.com
eduardo.fleites@citrix.com


