FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20090128162150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Registrants telephone number, including area code) (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
(954) 267-3000
Not Applicable
(General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
see
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2--Financial Information
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information under this Item 2.02, including the Exhibit attached hereto, is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On January 28,2009, Citrix Systems, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, and the year ended December 31, 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
Item 2.05.     Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
To allow the Company to operate more efficiently and to drive long-term changes in the Companys cost model, on January 28, 2009, the Company announced the implementation of a restructuring program and steps to reduce its headcount by approximately 500 full-time positions representing approximately 10 percent of the Companys global workforce (the Restructuring Program). In connection with the Restructuring Program, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a severance pay and benefits plan on January 27, 2009.
The Company currently expects to incur in the aggregate a pre-tax charge in the range of approximately $19 million to $23 million related to its global workforce reduction. The Company currently expects to record these charges primarily in the first fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2009.  Substantially all of these charges will result in cash expenditures.
The Company also expects to incur cash and non-cash charges related to the consolidation of facilities as part of the Restructuring Program.  Because the details of its facilities consolidation are not yet final, the Company is unable at this time to estimate the amount of cash and non-cash charges it may incur in connection with its facilities consolidation or the total amount expected to be incurred in connection with the Restructuring Program.  The Company currently anticipates completing the majority of the activities related to the Restructuring Program by the end of 2009.
Section 9--Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)      Exhibits
       99.1     Press release dated January 28, 2009 of Citrix Systems, Inc.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  The forward-looking statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K do not constitute guarantees of future performance.  Investors are cautioned that the statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K that are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding Citrixs restructuring program, including anticipated charges and costs, constitute forward-looking statements.  Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the impact of a global recession and uncertainty in the IT spending environment; the success and growth of the companys product lines, including risks associated with successfully introducing new products into Citrixs distribution channels; potential disruptions to Citrix and its business from its restructuring program; the companys product concentration and its ability to develop and commercialize new products and services while maintaining growth in its core products; failure to execute Citrixs sales and marketing plans; failure to successfully partner with key distributors, resellers, OEMs and strategic partners and the companys reliance on and the success of those partners for the marketing and distribution of the companys products; the companys ability to maintain and expand its business in small sized and large enterprise accounts; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders; the success of investments in its product groups, foreign operations and vertical and geographic markets; Citrixs and Microsofts ability to develop and market application delivery and virtualization products; the introduction of new products by competitors or the entry of new competitors into the markets for Citrixs products; failure to further develop and successfully market the technology and products of acquired companies, including the possible failure to achieve or maintain anticipated revenues and profits from acquisitions; the management of anticipated future growth and the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, including those of acquired companies, and any disruptions due to changes in key personnel; risks in effectively controlling operating expenses, including failure to achieve anticipated cost savings from Citrixs restructuring program and its other cost reduction initiatives; impairment of the value of the companys investments; the effect of new accounting pronouncements on revenue and expense recognition; litigation; changes in the companys pricing policies or those of its competitors; charges in the event of the impairment of assets acquired through business combinations and licenses; competition and other risks associated with the markets for our Web-based access, collaboration and customer assistance services and for our Web application delivery appliances; risks of political and social turmoil; and other risks detailed in Citrix filings with the SEC.  Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K or with respect to the matters described herein.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Citrix Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Financial Results
Achieves Annual Revenue Growth of 14%
Fourth Quarter GAAP Diluted Earnings Per Share of $0.33
Fourth Quarter Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings Per Share of $0.48
Announces Restructuring Program to Reduce Annualized Operating Expenses by Approximately $50 Million
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 28, 2009--Citrix Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:CTXS), the global leader in application delivery infrastructure, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and announced a restructuring program to reduce its annual operating expenses.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, Citrix achieved revenue of $416 million, compared to $400 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, representing four percent revenue growth. For the fiscal year 2008, Citrix reported annual revenues of $1.58 billion, compared to $1.39 billion in the previous year, a 14 percent increase.
GAAP Results
Net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 was $60 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, compared to $63 million, or $0.33 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2007. Annual net income for 2008 was $178 million, or $0.96 per diluted share, compared to $214 million, or $1.14 per diluted share in fiscal 2007.
Non-GAAP Results
Non-GAAP net income in the fourth quarter of 2008 was $87 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, compared to $95 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, in the comparable period last year. Non-GAAP net income excludes the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, stock-based compensation expenses, the write-off of in-process research and development (IPR&D), and the tax effects related to those items. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 also excludes a non-cash benefit of approximately $6 million related to the adjustment of payroll taxes accrued in connection with the companys voluntary, independent investigation of its historical stock option granting practices (stock option review) that was concluded in 2007.
Annual non-GAAP net income for 2008 was $304 million, or $1.63 per diluted share, compared to $299 million, or $1.59 per diluted share, in 2007. Non-GAAP net income excludes the effects of the amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, stock-based compensation expenses, the write-off of IPR&D, and the tax effects related to those items. In addition, non-GAAP net income for 2008 excludes the non-cash benefit related to the adjustment of payroll taxes taken in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.
Restructuring Program
Citrix also announced the implementation of a restructuring program and steps to reduce its headcount by approximately 10 percent of the company's global workforce. Citrix also expects to incur cash and non-cash charges related to the consolidation of facilities as part of the restructuring program. Because the details of its facilities consolidation are not yet final, the company is unable at this time to estimate the amount of charges it may incur in connection with its facilities consolidation.
"Im pleased with our Q4 results and performance for 2008  especially in the face of an extraordinary worldwide environment," said Mark Templeton, Citrix president and chief executive officer.
"While being fiscally cautious, we are more confident than ever in our vision and business strategy. Citrix products have a long track record of reducing IT costs, while simplifying enterprise computing  exactly what customers need.
Q4 Financial Summary
In reviewing the fourth quarter results of 2008, compared to the fourth quarter of 2007:
Product license revenue decreased 9 percent;
License updates revenue grew 13 percent;
Online services revenue grew 18 percent;
Technical services revenue, which is comprised of consulting, education and technical support, grew 13 percent;
Revenue grew in the Americas region by 3 percent and in the EMEA region by 2 percent, and decreased in the Pacific region by 6 percent;
Deferred revenue totaled $533 million, compared to $443 million on December 31, 2007, an increase of 21 percent;
Operating margin was 15 percent for the quarter; and non-GAAP operating margin was 26 percent for the quarter, excluding the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, stock-based compensation expense, the write-off of IPR&D, and the non-cash benefit related to the adjustment of payroll taxes discussed under non-GAAP results;
Cash flow from operations was $166 million, compared to $113 million in the fourth quarter of 2007; and,
Repurchased shares were 2.2 million shares at an average net price paid of $25.89.
Annual Financial Summary
In reviewing 2008 results compared to 2007 results:
Product license revenue grew 7 percent;
License updates revenue grew 15 percent;
Online services revenue grew 22 percent;
Technical services revenue, which is comprised of consulting, education and technical support, grew 24 percent;
Revenue grew in the Americas region by 9 percent, the EMEA region by 17 percent, and the Pacific region by 10 percent;
Operating margin was 11 percent for fiscal 2008, and non-GAAP operating margin was 23 percent, excluding the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, stock-based compensation expense, the write-off of IPR&D, and the non-cash benefit related to the adjustment of payroll taxes discussed under non-GAAP results;
Cash flow from operations was $462 million for fiscal 2008 compared with $422 million last year; and
During fiscal 2008, the company repurchased 10.9 million shares at an average net price per share of $31.71 or a total value of approximately $346 million.
Financial Outlook
Due to the volatility of market conditions in the foreseeable future, it is more likely that Citrixs actual results could differ materially from expectations. Consequently, the company is providing less quantitative guidance than in previous quarters.
First Quarter 2009
Citrix management currently expects to achieve the following results during its first fiscal quarter 2009 ending March 31, 2009:
Net revenue to be down approximately 5 percent as compared to the first quarter of 2008;
Non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately flat compared to the first quarter of 2008, excluding the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, stock-based compensation expense, and restructuring charges; and,
The restructuring of the companys global workforce announced today, which is expected to result in annualized pre-tax savings of approximately $50 million in employee related expenses. Primarily in the first fiscal quarter 2009, Citrix expects to incur a pre-tax charge in the range of $19 million to $23 million related to its global workforce reduction. Because the details of its facilities consolidation are not yet final, the company is unable at this time to estimate the amount of charges it may incur in connection with its facilities consolidation.
The above statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
Fiscal Year 2009
Citrix management currently expects to achieve the following results for the fiscal year 2009:
The company expects net revenue to be approximately flat as compared to 2008;
Non-GAAP operating margin to increase by as much as one percent as compared to non-GAAP operating margin from the prior year, excluding the effects of amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations, stock-based compensation expense, and restructuring charges.
The above statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
Conference Call Information
Citrix will host a conference call today at 4:45 p.m. ET to discuss its financial results, quarterly highlights and business outlook. The call will include a slide presentation, and participants are encouraged to listen to and view the presentation via webcast at .
http://www.citrix.com/investors
The conference call may also be accessed by dialing: (888) 799-0519 or (706) 634-0155, using passcode: CITRIX. A replay of the webcast can be viewed by visiting the Investor Relations section of the Citrix corporate Web site at for approximately 30 days. In addition, an audio replay of the conference call will be available through Feb. 28, 2009, by dialing (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 (passcode required: 78528332).
http://www.citrix.com/investors
About Citrix
Citrix Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:CTXS) is the global leader and the most trusted name in Application Delivery Infrastructure. More than 215,000 organizations worldwide rely on Citrix to deliver any application to users anywhere with the best performance, highest security and lowest cost. Citrix customers include 100 percent of the Fortune 100 companies and 99 percent of the Fortune Global 500, as well as hundreds of thousands of small businesses and prosumers. Citrix has approximately 8,000 partners in more than 100 countries. Annual revenue in 2008 was $1.6 billion.
For Citrix Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release, which are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, statements by Citrixs president and chief executive officer, statements concerning Citrixs other cost reduction initiatives, including anticipated charges and annualized cost savings, statements contained in the Financial Outlook for First Fiscal Quarter 2009 and Fiscal Year 2009 sections and under the Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliation section, and statements regarding managements plans, objectives and strategies, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the impact of a global recession and uncertainty in the IT spending environment; the success and growth of the companys product lines, including risks associated with successfully introducing new products into Citrixs distribution channels; potential disruption to Citrix and its business from its restructuring program; the companys product concentration and its ability to develop and commercialize new products and services while maintaining growth in its core products; failure to execute Citrixs sales and marketing plans; failure to successfully partner with key distributors, resellers, OEMs and strategic partners and the companys reliance on and the success of those partners for the marketing and distribution of the companys products; the companys ability to maintain and expand its business in small sized and large enterprise accounts; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders; the success of investments in its product groups, foreign operations and vertical and geographic markets; Citrixs and Microsofts ability to develop and market application delivery and virtualization products; the introduction of new products by competitors or the entry of new competitors into the markets for Citrixs products; failure to further develop and successfully market the technology and products of acquired companies, including the possible failure to achieve or maintain anticipated revenues and profits from acquisitions; the management of anticipated future growth and the recruitment and retention of qualified employees, including those of acquired companies, and any disruptions due to changes in key personnel; risks in effectively controlling operating expenses, including failure to achieve anticipated cost savings from Citrixs restructuring program and other cost reduction initiatives; impairment of the value of the companys investments; the effect of new accounting pronouncements on revenue and expense recognition; litigation; changes in the companys pricing policies or those of its competitors; charges in the event of the impairment of assets acquired through business combinations and licenses; competition and other risks associated with the markets for our Web-based access, collaboration and customer assistance services and for our Web application delivery appliances; risks of political and social turmoil; and other risks detailed in the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Citrix assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In our earnings release, conference call, slide presentation or webcast, we may use or discuss non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure used or discussed and a reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure are included in this press release after the condensed consolidated financial statement and can be found on the Investor Relations page of the Citrix corporate Web site at .
http://www.citrix.com/investors
Citrix is a registered trademark of Citrix Systems, Inc. and/or one or more of its subsidiaries, and may be registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in other countries. All other trademarks and registered trademarks are property of their respective owners.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Comparable U.S. GAAP Measures
(Unaudited)
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the company has provided a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure used in this earnings release and related conference call, slide presentation or webcast to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. These measures differ from GAAP in that they exclude amortization primarily related to business combinations, the write-off of in-process research and development, stock-based compensation expenses, the non-cash benefit related to the adjustment of payroll taxes accrued in connection with the companys voluntary, independent investigation of historical stock option granting practices that was concluded in 2007 and the related tax effect of those items. The company's basis for these adjustments is described below.
Management uses these non-GAAP measures for internal reporting and forecasting purposes, when publicly providing its business outlook, to evaluate the company's performance and to evaluate and compensate the company's executives. The company has provided these non-GAAP financial measures in addition to GAAP financial results because it believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to certain investors and financial analysts for comparison across accounting periods not influenced by certain non-cash items that are not used by management when evaluating the company's historical and prospective financial performance. In addition, the company has historically provided this or similar information and understands that some investors and financial analysts find this information helpful in analyzing the company's gross margins, operating expenses and net income and comparing the company's financial performance to that of its peer companies and competitors.
Management typically excludes the amounts described above when evaluating the company's operating performance and believes that the resulting non-GAAP measures are useful to investors and financial analysts in assessing the company's operating performance due to the following factors:
The company does not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle. The company, therefore, believes that the presentation of non-GAAP measures that adjust for the impact of amortization, in-process research and development and certain stock-based compensation expenses and the related tax effects that are primarily related to business combinations, provide investors and financial analysts with a consistent basis for comparison across accounting periods and, therefore, are useful to investors and financial analysts in helping them to better understand the company's operating results and underlying operational trends.
Amortization costs and the related tax effects are fixed at the time of an acquisition, are then amortized over a period of several years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition.
Although stock-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of the company's employees and executives, stock-based compensation expense is generally fixed at the time of grant, then amortized over a period of several years after the grant of the stock-based instrument, and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the grant.
The non-cash benefit related to payroll taxes originally arose out of the companys voluntary, independent investigation of its historical stock option granting practices but is a benefit in the current period, the exclusion of which will better help investors and financial analysts understand the company's operating results and underlying operational trends as compared to prior periods.
These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and may differ from the non-GAAP information used by other companies. There are significant limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. The additional non-GAAP financial information presented here should be considered in conjunction with, and not as a substitute for or superior to, the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP (such as net income and earnings per share) and should not be considered measures of the company's liquidity. Furthermore, the company in the future may exclude amortization and in-process research and development primarily related to new business combinations and the related tax effects from financial measures that it releases, and the company expects to continue to incur stock-based compensation expenses.
CONTACT: For Citrix Systems, Inc., Fort Lauderdale For media inquiries, contact: Citrix Systems, Inc. Eric Armstrong, 954-267-2977 or A&R Edelman Eric Jones, 212-819-4862 or For investor inquiries, contact: Citrix Systems, Inc. Eduardo Fleites, 954-229-5758
eric.armstrong@citrix.com
eric.jones@ar-edelman.com
eduardo.fleites@citrix.com


