FILE:CTXS/CTXS-8K-20090604151933.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders of Citrix Systems, Inc. (the "Company"), which was held on May 29, 2009, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to increase the aggregate number of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan by 5,600,000 shares and increase the aggregate number of shares of the Company's common stock issuable pursuant to restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units or stock grants by 1,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The Company's executive officers and directors are eligible to receive awards under the Plan, including stock options and restricted stock units, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
WHEREAS, Citrix Systems, Inc. (the "Company") desires to amend the Citrix Systems, Inc. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended and in effect, the "Plan") to (i) increase the aggregate number of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan by 5,600,000 shares of common stock, par value $.001 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"), and (ii) increase the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units or stock grants by 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock (the "Plan Amendment"); and;
WHEREAS, on April 14, 2009, subject to stockholder approval, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the Plan Amendment.
NOW THEREFORE, in accordance with Section 15 of the Plan, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
 
"At no time shall the number of shares of Stock issued pursuant to or subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan (including pursuant to Incentive Options), nor the number of shares of Stock issued pursuant to Incentive Options, exceed 32,100,000 shares of Stock; subject, however, to the provisions of Section 8 of the Plan. In addition to the foregoing, at no time shall the number of shares of Stock issued pursuant to Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units or Stock Grants exceed 4,000,000 shares of Stock; subject, however, to the provisions of Section 8 of the Plan."
 
 


