FILE:APH/APH-8K-20040707090920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
AMPHENOL CORPORATION
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibit Description
 
99.1       Press Release, dated July 7, 2004, issued by Amphenol Corporation
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On July 7, 2004, Amphenol Corporation issued a press release announcing the designation of Diana Reardon as Chief Financial Officer. A copy of Amphenol Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: July 7, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
Wallingford, Connecticut.  July 7, 2004.  Amphenol Corporation (NYSE-APH) announced today that Diana Reardon has been designated to succeed in an orderly transition to the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Mrs. Reardon has been with Amphenol for sixteen years and is currently Vice President, Controller and Treasurer.  The current Chief Financial Officer, Edward Jepsen, will assist in the transition which will be completed by the end of the year.  Mr. Jepsen will continue with the Company on a project basis and is expected to be nominated to the Board of Directors.
 
Amphenol Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Martin H. Loeffler, commented that:  "I am very pleased that Diana will become Amphenol's new Chief Financial Officer.  She has an excellent history of achievement with the Company and is an outstanding manager and financial executive.  I am very confident that she will continue to make an excellent contribution to the Company's progress, and that the transition period will ensure a smooth transfer of responsibility.  I would also like to thank Ed Jepsen for the many fine years of service as Chief Financial Officer, and I look forward to the continuing benefit of his experience and judgment going forward."
 
Amphenol Corporation is one of the world's leading producers of electronic and fiber optic connectors, cable and interconnect systems.  Amphenol products are engineered and manufactured in the Americas, Europe and Asia and sold by a worldwide sales and marketing organization.  The primary end markets for the Company's products are communication systems for the converging technologies of voice, video and data communications, industrial/automotive and military/aerospace applications.
PR July 7, 2004


