FILE:APH/APH-8K-20060214165431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 8.01 - Other Events.
 
On December 1, 2005, pursuant to an Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement dated October 10, 2005 (the "Asset Purchase Agreement") by and among Amphenol Corporation ("Amphenol" or the "Company") and Teradyne, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation ("Teradyne"), Amphenol purchased substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of Teradyne's backplane and connection systems business segment ("TCS" or "Connection Systems"), including the stock of certain of its operating subsidiaries for a total purchase price of approximately $384.7 million in cash. In addition, Am phenol incurred approximately $8.8 million of transaction related expenses.
 
Amphenol financed this transaction primarily with borrowings under its unsecured five-year revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"), dated as of July 15, 2005, among Amphenol, certain subsidiaries of Amphenol, a syndicate of financial institutions and Bank of America, N.A. as the administrative agent. As disclosed in Amphenol's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 21, 2005, Amphenol exercised its option to increase its aggregate commitments under the Credit Agreement by an additional $250 million thereby increasing such revolving credit facility to $1 billion from $750 million. All other terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement remained unchanged.
 
A copy of the Asset Purchase Agreement is included as an exhibit to Amphenol's current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on October 11, 2005.
 
Amphenol hereby amends Item 9 of its Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 6, 2005, to file the Financial Statements and Exhibits of Amphenol related to the acquisition of TCS, (as described in that Form 8-K) and to file the required historical and pro forma financial information.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements And Exhibits.
 
(a) Financial statements of business acquired.
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 are the Audited Combined Financial Statements of Connection Systems for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2004. Attached as Exhibit 99.2 are the Unaudited Combined Condensed Financial Statements of Connection Systems for the Nine Months Ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004.
 
(b) Pro forma financial information.
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.3 are the Unaudited Pro forma Combined Condensed Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2005 as well as the Pro forma Unaudited Combined Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the nine months ended September 30, 2005. As required, this pro forma information gives effect to Amphenol's acquisition of Connection Systems as if it had occurred at September 30, 2005 for the pro forma balance sheet and as of the beginning of each period presented for the pro forma statements of operations.
 
(c) Not Applicable
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

EXHIBIT 23.1
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-86618 and 333-35901) of Amphenol Corporation of our report dated September 2, 2005 relating to the financial statements of Connection Systems, which appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Amphenol Corporation dated December 1, 2005.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
The Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc.:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying combined balance sheet and the related combined statements of operations, of parent company investment and comprehensive income, and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Connection Systems at December 31, 2004 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of Teradyne, Inc.'s and Connection Systems' management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
Connection Systems is comprised of Teradyne, Inc.'s
high bandwidth backplane assemblies and high density connections
businesses, which were historically integrated with the businesses of Teradyne, Inc.; consequently, as indicated in Note B to the financial statements, these financial statements have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Teradyne, Inc., and reflect significant assumptions and allocations. Moreover, as indicated in Note B, the Company relies on Teradyne, Inc. for certain administrative services and financing. Accordingly, these financial statements do not necessarily reflect the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Connection Systems had it been a stand-alone company.
 
 
 
 
 
A.    THE BUSINESS
 
The accompanying combined financial statements are those of Teradyne Connection Systems ("Connection Systems"). Connection Systems is a division of Teradyne, Inc. (the "Parent"). The accompanying combined financial statements include all assets, liabilities and expenses directly attributable to Connection Systems, as well as reasonable estimated allocations of corporate, general and administrative assets, liabilities, and other functions and services provided by the Parent. Connection Systems is a leader in high performance connection systems, including designing and manufacturing backplane systems, high-speed, high-density connectors and printed circuit boards.
 
The combined financial statements presented may not be indicative of results that would have been achieved had the Connection Systems operated as an unaffiliated stand-alone entity.
 
B.     SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying combined financial statements include the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of the business as included in the historical financial statements of the Parent. Connection Systems' costs and expenses include allocations from the Parent for centralized information technology, employee benefits, legal, accounting, real estate, insurance, treasury, financing and other corporate and infrastructure costs, as well as allocations for profit sharing and variable compensation (See Note P). Management believes the assumptions used to prepare Connection Systems' combined financial statements from the historical statements of the Parent are reasonable. The financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect the combined financial position, operating results, changes in invested equity and cash flows of Connection Systems in the future or what they would have been had Connection Systems been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. Because a direct ownership relationship did not exist among all the various units comprising Connection Systems, the Parent's net investment in Connection Systems is shown in lieu of stockholder's equity in the financial statements. The Parent has committed to provide financial support to Connection Systems to continue operations through September 2006.
 
Principles of Combination
 
The combined financial statements include the accounts of Connection Systems. All significant intracompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in combination.
 
Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of combined financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to inventories, investments, goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets, bad debts, income taxes, pensions, warranties, intercompany cost allocations, contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on appropriate and customary assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents of $5.4 million as of December 31, 2004 are netted with parent company investment in the accompanying financial statements.
 
Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. The volatility of the industries that Connection Systems serves can cause certain of its customers to experience shortages of cash flows, which can impact their ability to make required payments. Connection Systems maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Estimated allowances for doubtful accounts are reviewed periodically, taking into account the customer's current payment history, the customer's current financial statements and other information regarding the customer's credit worthiness. If the financial condition of Connection Systems customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Account balances are charged off against the allowance when it is probable the receivable will not be recovered.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
In accordance with the guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition," Connection Systems recognizes revenue when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, title and risk of loss have passed, delivery has occurred or the services have been rendered, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collection of the related receivable is reasonably assured. Title and risk of loss generally passes to Connection Systems customers upon shipment. In circumstances where either title or risk of loss passes upon destination, acceptance or cash payment, Connection Systems defers revenue recognition until such events occur. Connection Systems classifies shipping and handling costs in cost of revenue.
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject Connection Systems to concentrations of credit risk primarily consist of accounts receivable. Connection Systems' customers are concentrated in the data and wireless communications, data server and storage industries and their ability to pay may be influenced by the prevailing macroeconomic conditions present in these markets. Receivables from Connection Systems' customers are generally unsecured. To reduce the concentration risk and the overall risk of collection, Connection Systems performs ongoing evaluations of its customers' financial condition.
 
Connection Systems markets its products principally in North America, Europe and South East Asia for use in computer and microelectronics manufacturing, data and wireless communications markets and industrial manufacturing. At December 31, 2004, Connection Systems had two customers that each accounted for 14% of total outstanding accounts receivable. Connection Systems performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and although Connection Systems generally does not require collateral, it requires its customers to provide letters of credit in certain circumstances. (See Note N for significant customer information.)
Inventories
 
Inventories, which include materials, labor and manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value. On a quarterly basis, Connection Systems uses consistent methodologies to evaluate all inventory for net realizable value. Connection Systems records a provision for excess and obsolete inventory when such a write down is identified through the quarterly review process. The inventory valuation is based upon assumptions about future demand, product mix and possible alternative uses. Inventories, net of related reserves, as of December 31, 2004 consisted of:
 
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements and major renewals are capitalized and included in property, plant and equipment accounts while expenditures for maintenance and repairs and minor renewals are charged to expense. When assets are retired, the assets and related allowances for depreciation and amortization are removed from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in operations. Connection Systems provides for depreciation of its assets principally on the straight-line method with the cost of the assets being charged to expense over their useful lives as follows:
 
 
Goodwill, Intangible and Long-Lived Assets
 
Connection Systems accounts for its goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"). Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful economic life using the straight-line method and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently when events and circumstances occur indicating that the recorded goodwill may be impaired. If the book value exceeds its fair value, the implied fair value of goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of goodwill. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recorded in an amount equal to that excess.
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," Connection Systems reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate. Each impairment test is based on a comparison of the estimated undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. If an impairment is indicated, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The cash flow estimates used to determine the impairment, if any, contain management's best estimates using applicable assumptions and projections at that time.
Engineering and Development Costs
 
Engineering and development costs are expensed as incurred.
 
Advertising Costs
 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising costs were $0.2 million in 2004.
 
Deferred Revenue and Customer Advances
 
Deferred revenue represents amounts that have been invoiced to customers, but are not yet recognizable as revenue because one or more of the conditions for revenue recognition have not been met. Customer advances represent deposits received from customers on an order.
 
Product Warranty
 
Connection Systems generally provides a one-year warranty on its products commencing upon shipment. A provision is recorded to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based upon historical experience. Related costs are charged to the warranty accrual as incurred. The balance below is included in other accrued liabilities.
 
 
Employee Stock Option Plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
Connection Systems applies the intrinsic value based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25") and related Interpretations in accounting for its stock-based compensation and complies with the disclosure provision of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"("SFAS 123"). Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for employee stock options with exercise prices equal to or greater than the Parent's stock price at date of grant.
 
The Parent has stock-based compensation plans for its employees and directors. Pro forma amounts have been adjusted for the effect of recording compensation cost for the Parent's stock option and employee stock purchase plans for grants awarded to Connection Systems employees. The amounts have been determined based upon the fair value at the grant date for awards under these plans consistent with the methodology prescribed under SFAS 123 for the year ended December 31, 2004 and are presented below:
 
The weighted average grant fair value for options granted during 2004 was $14.30. The fair value of options at date of grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
 
 
The weighted average fair value of employee stock purchase rights granted in 2004 was $5.52. The fair value of the employees' purchase rights was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
 
 
Income Taxes
 
Historically, Connection Systems' results of operations have been included in the Parent's consolidated income tax returns. Income tax expense (benefit) reported in Connection Systems' statements of operations have been calculated on a separate tax return basis. However, the Parent managed its tax position for the benefit of its entire portfolio of businesses and its tax strategies are not necessarily reflective of the tax strategies that Connection Systems would have followed or will follow as a separate stand-alone company.
 
Deferred taxes result from the future tax consequences associated with temporary differences between the recorded amounts of the assets and liabilities of Connection Systems for tax and financial accounting purposes. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is recorded to the extent Connection Systems cannot determine, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes,"("SFAS 109") that the ultimate realization of net deferred tax assets is more likely than not. U.S. income taxes are not provided for on the earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, which are expected to be reinvested indefinitely in operations outside the United States.
 
Translation of Non-U.S. Currencies
 
Assets and liabilities, other than non-monetary assets and liabilities, of non-U.S. subsidiaries, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, are remeasured into U.S. dollars at rates of exchange in effect at the end of the fiscal year. Non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries are remeasured using historical exchange rates. The functional currency for non-U.S. subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. Revenue and expense amounts are remeasured using an average of exchange rates in effect during the year. To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies, the Parent enters into foreign currency forward contracts. Net realized gains and losses resulting from currency remeasurement and foreign currency forward contracts are recorded by the Parent. Net amounts related to Connection Systems were not material.
Comprehensive Income
 
Comprehensive income consists of net income.
 
C.    SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following as of December 31, 2004:
 
 
D.    RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"). In annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005, SFAS 123R would eliminate the ability to account for equity-based compensation using the intrinsic value-based method under APB 25. SFAS 123R requires companies to record in their statement of operations equity-based compensation expense for stock compensation awards based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. Connection Systems expects to adopt SFAS 123R beginning in the first quarter of 2006, as required, using the Modified Prospective method, without restatement of prior periods.
 
Currently, Connection Systems discloses pro forma net income and related pro forma net income per share in accordance with SFAS 123. Under SFAS 123R, equity-based compensation expense is required to be recognized in companies' financial statements.
 
In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4" ("SFAS 151"). SFAS 151 modifies the accounting for abnormal inventory costs, and the manner in which companies allocate fixed overhead expenses to inventory. SFAS 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. Connection Systems does not expect SFAS 151 to have a material impact on its financial position and results of operations.
 
E.     RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
 
Connection Systems future results of operations involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These factors include, but are not limited to, the slowdown in economies worldwide, current geopolitical turmoil, the continuing threat of domestic and international terrorist attacks, the current and anticipated market for electronics, risks associated with any measures Connection Systems has taken to address the past slowdown in the market, Connection Systems' ability to address a rapid increase in customer demand, failure to adequately protect Connection Systems' intellectual property rights, failure to develop new technologies and customers' failure to accept new products, risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures, material litigation, competition, including new product introductions from Connection Systems' competitors and competitive pricing pressures, risks of operating internationally, risks associated with an inability to attract and retain key employees, risks associated with Connection Systems' suppliers' failure to meet product or delivery requirements, risks associated with, among other things, obligations and potential liabilities under environmental laws and regulations, changes in product revenue mix, the ability of Connection Systems' suppliers and subcontractors to meet product and delivery requirements, the timing and level of customer orders received which can be shipped in a quarter and the timing of investments in engineering and development.
F.     GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
Goodwill
 
Connection Systems goodwill was $47.0 million as of December 31, 2004.
 
Connection Systems annual impairment test is performed in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Connection Systems concluded during its annual test that there was no impairment of goodwill as of December 31, 2004. During 2004, goodwill was reduced by $2.0 million as a result of the return of escrowed shares related to the Herco Technology Corp. and Perception Laminates, Inc. acquisitions.
 
G.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Lease Commitments
 
Rental expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $3.8 million.
 
The following table reflects Connection Systems' non-cancelable operating lease commitments as of December 31,2004:
 
 
*      Minimum payments have not been reduced by minimum sublease income of $0.4 million due in the future under non-cancelable subleases.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2003, Connection Systems entered into a sale and leaseback agreement for certain manufacturing assets. The lease agreement has a term of 24 months and expires in September 2005. At December 31, 2004, the remaining minimum payments related to this lease agreement were $1.4 million.
 
Legal Claims
 
On April 30, 2004, Hampshire Equity Partners II, LP ("HEP") filed a complaint against the Parent and Connection Systems in the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, relating to HEP's February 21, 2001 investment of $55 million in Connector Service Corporation (aka AMAX Plating, Inc.) ("CSC"), a supplier to Connection Systems at the time. After CSC filed for bankruptcy protection, HEP brought suit against the Parent and Connection Systems asserting fraud and negligence based claims, and a claim for intentional interference with economic opportunity, relating to statements that a Connection Systems representative made to HEP's agent during the due diligence that HEP conducted prior to its February 2001 investment in CSC. HEP sought to hold the Parent and Connection Systems responsible for its decision to invest in CSC, the losses that it suffered upon the bankruptcy of CSC and damages for an unstated amount of not less than $55 million. On June 17, 2004, the Parent and Connection Systems filed a motion to dismiss HEP's complaint in its entirety. On or about April 7, 2005, the District Court entered an order allowing the Parent's motion to dismiss in full and denied HEP leave to amend and re-file its complaint. On May 6, 2005, HEP filed a notice of appeal from the District Court's order to dismiss. The appeal is now pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
On September 5, 2001, after the Parent's August 2000 acquisition of Herco Technology Corp. and Perception Laminates, Inc., the former owners of those companies filed a complaint against the Parent and two of its executive officers, including the President of Connection Systems, in the Federal District Court in San Diego, California. Pursuant to motions filed by the Parent and the plaintiffs, the District Court dismissed certain of the plaintiffs' claims, granted partial summary judgment against them with respect to the breach of contract claims and denied the plaintiffs' motion for reconsideration. The only claim that remained before the District Court from the original complaint related to an allegation of fraud in connection with the setting of the transaction price. On December 27, 2004, the plaintiffs voluntarily stipulated to the dismissal with prejudice of their remaining claim in the District Court, without having received any payment or other consideration from the Parent. On February 2, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal from the District Court's prior orders. The appeal is now pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
 
In 2001, the Parent was designated as a "potentially responsible party" ("PRP") at a clean-up site in Los Angeles, California. This claim arises out of the Parent's acquisition of Perception Laminates, Inc. in August 2000. Prior to that date, Perception Laminates had itself acquired certain assets of Alco Industries Inc. under an asset purchase agreement dated July 30, 1992. Neither the Parent nor Perception Laminates have ever conducted any operations at the Los Angeles site. The Parent has asked the State of California to drop the PRP designation, but California has not yet agreed to do so.
 
The Parent and Connection Systems believe that they have meritorious defenses against the above unsettled claims and intend to vigorously contest them. While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcomes of the unsettled claims or to provide possible ranges of losses that may arise, the Parent and Connection Systems believe the losses associated with these actions will not have a material adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or liquidity, but could possibly be material to their consolidated results of operations of any one period.
 
In addition, Connection Systems is subject to legal proceedings, claims and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business such as, but not limited to, patent, employment, commercial and environmental matters. Although there can be no assurance, there are no such matters pending that Connection Systems expects to be material with respect to its business, financial position or results of operations.
 
Guarantees and Indemnification Obligations
 
Connection Systems enters into agreements in the ordinary course of business with customers, resellers, distributors, integrators and suppliers. Most of these agreements require Connection Systems to defend and/or indemnify the other party against intellectual property infringement claims brought by a third party with respect to Connection Systems' products. From time to time, Connection Systems also indemnifies customers and business partners for damages, losses and liabilities they may suffer or incur in connection with personal injury, personal property damage, product liability and environmental claims relating to the use of Connection Systems' products and services or resulting from the acts or omissions of Connection Systems, its employees, authorized agents or subcontractors. On occasion, Connection Systems has also provided guarantees to customers regarding the performance of its products in addition to the warranty described below.
 
As a matter of ordinary business course, Connection Systems warrants that its products will substantially perform in accordance with its standard published specifications in effect at the time of delivery. Most warranties have a one-year duration commencing from shipment. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenue for estimated warranty expense based upon historical experience. As December 31, 2004, Connection Systems had a product warranty accrual of $0.6 million in other accrued liabilities. In addition, and in the ordinary course of business, Connection Systems provides minimum purchase guarantees to certain of its vendors to ensure continuity of supply against the market demand. Although some of these guarantees provide penalties for cancellations and/or modifications to the purchase commitments as the market demand decreases, most of the guarantees do not. Therefore, as the market demand decreases, Connection Systems re-evaluates these guarantees and determines what charges, if any, should be recorded. Based on historical experience and information known as of December 31, 2004, except for product warranty, Connection Systems has not recorded any liabilities for these guarantees and obligations as of December 31, 2004 because no liabilities have been incurred.
H.    RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES
 
The tables below represent activity related to restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2004. The accrual for severance and benefits is reflected in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. The accrual for lease payments on vacated facilities is reflected in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and other long-term accrued liabilities and is expected to be paid out over the lease terms, the latest of which expires in 2010. Connection Systems expects to pay out approximately $0.8 million against the lease accruals over the next twelve months. A portion of the unoccupied space has been subleased as of December 31, 2004 and Connection Systems is actively attempting to sublease the remaining space.
 
The table below summarizes the liability and activity for the year ended December 31, 2004 relating to restructuring and other charges:
 
 
During the year ended December 31, 2004, Connection Systems recorded the following activity related to restructuring and other charges:
 
      $2.3 million charge for estimates of losses due to changes in the assumed amount and timing of sublease income on facilities that have been exited prior to the end of the lease term;
 - 
      $1.3 million charge taken for severance and related employee benefits for approximately 43 employees terminated in the year; and
 - 
      $0.5 million of charges for certain long-lived assets that were impaired as the estimated value of such assets was less than the carrying amount.
 - 
 
During 2004, Connection Systems recorded a $0.9 million gain on the sale of a business related to an earn-out provision from a divestiture in 1999, which has been classified as gain on the sale of business in the statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
In January 2005, Connection Systems committed to a restructuring plan as part of an ongoing effort to lower expenses. Pursuant to the plan, Connection Systems believes that it will incur costs for severance and related employee benefits. The total charges expected to be incurred under the plan are $3.8 million. Through December 2005, Connection Systems has incurred charges of approximately $3.8 million, related to this plan.
 
On April 8, 2005, Connection Systems committed to a real estate consolidation plan and determined that an impairment charge would result from the consolidation plan. The plan includes selling an unoccupied building in Nashua, NH for which Connection Systems recorded an impairment charge of $1.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. The sale is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2006, which ends April 2, 2006.
 
On June 8, 2005, Connection Systems committed to a restructuring plan as part of an ongoing effort to lower expenses. Pursuant to the plan, Connection Systems believes that it will incur costs for severance and related employee benefits. The total charges expected to be incurred under the plan are $2.3 million. Through December 2005, Connection Systems has incurred charges of approximately $2.3 million, related to this plan.
 
I.      OTHER CHARGES
 
During the year ended December 31, 2004, an excess and obsolete provision of $1.6 million and an inventory provision recovery of $0.9 million related to inventory sold that was previously reserved for were recorded in cost of revenue. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2004, a $0.3 million charge related to other than temporary impairment of a common stock investment was recorded to other expense.
J.     RETIREMENT PLANS
 
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
 
The Parent has a defined benefit pension plan covering a majority of its U.S. employees. In addition, the Parent has an unfunded supplemental executive defined benefit plan in the United States to provide retirement benefits in excess of levels allowed by the Employment Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA") and the Internal Revenue Code (the "IRC"). The accompanying financial statements include an allocation of total pension expense and total pension liabilities based on the portion of the Parent's plans which are estimated to be related to Connection Systems employees. Pension expense of $0.6 million is included in Connection Systems' statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
Benefits under these plans are based on employees' years of service and compensation. The Parent's funding policy is to make contributions to the plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible. The assets of the U.S. defined benefit plan consist primarily of equity and fixed income securities.
 
Post Retirement Benefit Plans
 
In addition to receiving pension benefits, U.S. employees who meet retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in the Parent's Welfare Plan, which includes death, medical and dental benefits up to age 65. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees' survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Connection Systems' current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. The accompanying financial statements include an allocation of total post retirement expense and total post retirement liabilities based on the portion of the Parent's plan which is estimated to be related to Connection Systems employees. Post retirement benefit expense of $0.7 million is included in the Connection Systems' statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
A $0.2 million asset is included in other long-term assets as of December 31, 2004 related to the defined benefit and post retirement plans.
 
K.    STOCK BASED COMPENSATION
 
Stock Option Plans
 
As a division of the Parent, Connection Systems has no separate employee stock option plan, however, employees of Connection Systems participate in the Parent's stock option plans. Under its stock option plans, all of which are fixed accounting plans, the Parent grants options to purchase common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the date of grant. Options granted to employees prior to September 2001 vest in equal installments over four years and have a maximum term of five years. Beginning in September 2001, options granted to employees vest in equal installments over four years and have a maximum term of seven years. In addition, in 2001, the Parent made a one-time option grant to all employees that vested over two years and has a term of seven years. The following stock option information relates to options granted to the employees of Connection Systems under the Parent's stock option plans.
 
Stock option plan activity for year 2004 follows:
Weighted average option exercise price information for year 2004:
 
 
Significant option groups outstanding at December 31, 2004 and related weighted average price and remaining contractual life information follows:
 
On May 26, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Parent approved a plan to accelerate on such date the vesting of certain outstanding, unvested "out of the money" stock options awarded to employees, officers and other eligible participants under the Parent's various stock option plans. The stock options that were accelerated have exercise prices that are in excess of $13.26, the closing price of the Parent's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on May 26, 2005 and range in exercise price from $13.73 to $41.37 per share. Options to purchase approximately 733,768 shares held by Connection Systems employees became exercisable immediately as a result of the vesting acceleration. By implementing the plan, the Parent expects to reduce the effects of SFAS 123R which requires companies to recognize stock-based compensation expense associated with stock options based on the fair value method.
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
Under the Parent's 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, certain Connection Systems employees are eligible to purchase shares of common stock through regular payroll deductions of up to 10% of their compensation. Under the plan, the price paid for the common stock is equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the Parent's common stock on the first business day in January (July for new hires) or the last business day of December. In January 2005, the Parent issued 162,050 shares of common stock to Connection Systems employees who participated in the plan during 2004 at a weighted-average price of $14.55 per share. In January of 2004, the Parent issued 207,628 shares of common stock to Connection Systems employees who participated in the plan during 2003 at a weighted-average price of $11.67 per share. On November 9, 2004, the Parent's Board of Directors approved a plan amendment which replaced the existing twelve-month purchase period with two six-month purchase periods, effective January 1, 2005.
 
L.    SAVINGS PLAN
 
The Parent sponsors an employee retirement savings plan covering substantially all U.S. employees. Under the Parent's savings plan, employees may contribute up to 15% of their compensation (subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations). The Parent annually matches employee contributions up to 6% of such compensation at rates ranging from 50% to 100% for employees in the defined benefit plan. For all other employees, the Parent annually matches up to 5% of such compensation at rates ranging from 100% to 150%. The Connection Systems employees' contributions vest 25% per year for the first four years of employment, and contributions for those employees with four or more years of service vest immediately. The Parent has also established an unfunded supplemental savings plan to provide savings benefits in excess of those allowed by ERISA and the IRC. The provisions of this plan are the same as the savings plan. Under the Parent's savings plans, $2.3 million was allocated to Connection Systems operations in 2004.
M.   INCOME TAXES
 
The components of income before income taxes and the provision for income taxes for 2004 as shown in the combined statements of operations are as follows:
 
 
Significant components of Connection Systems deferred tax assets (liabilities) as of December 31, 2004 are as follows:
 
 
Net deferred tax assets are recorded in long-term other assets as of December 31, 2004.
 
At December 31, 2004, Connection Systems has $124.6 million of U.S. federal operating loss carryforwards, of which $67.7 million expire in 2022, $52.6 million expire in 2023 and $4.3 million expire in 2004.  In addition, as of December 31, 2004, Connection Systems has foreign operating net loss carryforwards of $3.0 million, which have no expiration date.
 
Connection Systems has approximately $1.4 million of tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2004. General business tax credits of approximately $0.6 million expire in the years 2019 through 2020 and foreign tax credits of approximately $0.8 million expire in the years 2005 through 2007.
During 2004, Connection Systems' valuation account decreased by $6.4 million primarily as a result of the increased liability for tax depreciation and reductions in inventory valuations. Due to the continued uncertainty of realization, except for certain foreign deferred tax assets, Connection Systems maintained its valuation allowance at December 31, 2004. Connection Systems does not expect to significantly reduce its valuation allowance until sufficient positive evidence, including sustained profitability, exists in order to conclude that realization is more likely than not.
 
A reconciliation of the effective tax rate for the year 2004 follows:
 
 
Connection Systems has tax holidays in Malaysia and the People's Republic of China. The tax holiday in Malaysia exempts 70% of trading income related to Connection Systems' assembly operations from income tax, with the remaining income taxed at statutory rates. The holiday will expire in September 2007, after which time all income will be subject to the statutory rate, which is currently 28%. The aggregate amount of savings relating to the Malaysian tax holiday is $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. In the People's Republic of China, Connection Systems has a tax holiday granting a 0% income tax rate through 2005, with an increase to 7.5% in 2006 and 2007. After 2007, the statutory income tax rate of 15% will apply.
 
As of December 31, 2004, a deferred tax liability had not been established for approximately $73.6 million of cumulative undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. On October 22, 2004, the President signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("the Jobs Act"). The Jobs Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. There are approximately $60.0 million of unremitted foreign earnings considered available for repatriation. At this time, Connection Systems is exploring various tax planning opportunities, and does not anticipate repatriating under the Jobs Act. If Connection Systems were to repatriate these available earnings under the Jobs Act, the tax cost would be approximately $1.2 million.
 
N.    SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHIC AND SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER INFORMATION
 
Connection Systems operates as one segment for the development and manufacturing of high bandwidth backplane assemblies and high density connectors.
 
 
(1)       Revenues are attributable to geographic areas based on location of customer site.
 
Because a substantial portion of Connection Systems' revenue is derived from the sales of product manufactured in the United States, long-lived assets located outside the United States are less than 10% of total assets.
Customers comprising 10% or more of Connection Systems' revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 shown below are as follows:
 
 
O.    RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Related Party Revenue
 
Connection Systems' revenue from sales of products to the Parent was $29.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The cost of products for the sales to the Parent was $26.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The combined balance sheet of Connection Systems includes accounts receivable from related party of $2.1 million as of December 31, 2004 from the sales of products to the Parent.
 
Parent Allocations
 
Connection Systems' costs and expenses include allocations from the Parent for centralized information technology, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance, treasury and other corporate and infrastructure costs, as well as allocations for profit sharing and variable compensation. These allocations have been determined on bases that Connection Systems and the Parent considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or the benefit received by Connection Systems. The allocation methods include relative sales, headcount, salaries, square footage and usage. Allocated costs included in the statement of operations were as follows for the year ended December 31, 2004:
 
 
Connection Systems' employees participate in various Parent-sponsored employee benefit plans (See Notes J, K and L).
 
Connection Systems' assets and liabilities include allocations from the Parent related to the centralized services provided by the Parent, including prepaid insurance premiums, cash surrender value of split dollar life policies for certain executives, general and administrative prepaid assets and accruals, such as prepaid maintenance fees and legal and audit fee accruals, and employee benefit related accruals. The combined balance sheet of Connection Systems' include the following allocated assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2004:
 
 
Parent Company Investment
 
Parent company investment consists of the Parent's equity investment in Connection Systems. Changes in the Parent's net investment represent the Parent's transfer of its net investment in Connection Systems, after giving effect to the net earnings of Connection Systems plus net cash transfers to the Parent. The Parent's corporate debt and the related interest expense have not been allocated to the combined financial statements.
 
P.    SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)
 
On November 17, 2005, Connection Systems committed to a restructuring plan as part of an ongoing effort to lower expenses. Pursuant to the plan, Connection Systems believes that it will incur costs for severance and related employee benefits. The total charges expected to be incurred under the plan are $3.3 million. Through December 2005, Connection Systems has incurred charges of approximately $3.3 million, related to this plan.
 
With respect to the complaint Hampshire Equity Partners II, LP ("HEP") filed against Teradyne and Connection Systems, HEP appealed the U.S. District Court of the Southern District of New York's order to dismiss the claim (See Note G, Commitments and Contingencies). Hearings for oral appellate arguments began on December 12, 2005 before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Court of Appeals issued its order in December of 2005 denying HEP's appeal and affirming the District Courts order to dismiss.
 
On December 1, 2005, the Parent completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of TCS to Amphenol Corporation for $384.7 million in cash, which includes a post-closing net asset value adjustment of approximately $5.3 million.

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
A.    THE BUSINESS
 
The accompanying combined condensed financial statements are those of Teradyne Connection Systems ("Connection Systems" or the "Company"). Connection Systems is a division of Teradyne, Inc. (the "Parent"). The accompanying combined condensed financial statements include all assets, liabilities and expenses directly attributable to Connection Systems, as well as reasonable estimated allocations of corporate, general and administrative assets, liabilities, and other functions and services provided by the Parent. Connection Systems is a leader in high performance connection systems, including designing and manufacturing backplane systems, high-speed, high-density connectors and printed circuit boards.
 
B.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The amounts set forth in the accompanying combined condensed financial statements of the Company are unaudited as of October 2, 2005 and for the nine months ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004, however, in the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of such interim financial statements have been included. Such results are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. The unaudited financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. The accompanying financial statements of the Company should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 and include the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of the business as included in the historical financial statements of the Parent. Connection Systems' costs and expenses include allocations from the Parent for centralized information technology, employee benefits, legal, accounting, real estate, insurance, treasury, financing and other corporate and infrastructure costs, as well as allocations for profit sharing and variable compensation (See Note H). The financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect the combined condensed financial position, operating results, changes in invested equity and cash flows of Connection Systems in the future or what they would have been had Connection Systems been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. Because a direct ownership relationship did not exist among all the various units comprising Connection Systems, the Parent's net investment in Connection Systems is shown in lieu of stockholder's equity in the financial statements.
 
Principles of Combination
 
The combined condensed financial statements include the accounts of Connection Systems. All significant intracompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in combination.
 
Inventories
 
Inventories, which include materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value. On a quarterly basis, Connection Systems uses consistent methodologies to evaluate all inventory for net realizable value. Connection Systems records a provision for excess and obsolete inventory when such a write down is identified through the quarterly review process. The inventory valuation is based upon assumptions about future demand, product mix and possible alternative uses. Inventories, net of related reserves, as of October 2, 2005, consisted of:
 
C.    RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
 
Connection Systems future results of operations involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These factors include, but are not limited to, the slowdown in economies worldwide, current geopolitical turmoil, the continuing threat of domestic and international terrorist attacks, the current and anticipated market for electronics, risks associated with any measures Connection Systems has taken to address the past slowdown in the market, Connection Systems' ability to address a rapid increase in customer demand, failure to adequately protect Connection Systems' intellectual property rights, failure to develop new technologies and customers' failure to accept new products, risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures, material litigation, competition, including new product introductions from Connection Systems' competitors and competitive pricing pressures, risks of operating internationally, risks associated with an inability to attract and retain key employees, risks associated with Connection Systems' suppliers' failure to meet product or delivery requirements, risks associated with, among other things, obligations and potential liabilities under environmental laws and regulations, changes in product revenue mix, the ability of Connection Systems' suppliers and subcontractors to meet product and delivery requirements, the timing and level of customer orders received which can be shipped in a quarter and the timing of investments in engineering and development.
 
D.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Legal Claims
 
On April 30, 2004, Hampshire Equity Partners II, LP ("HEP") filed a complaint against the Parent and Connection Systems in the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, relating to HEP's February 21, 2001 investment of $55 million in Connector Service Corporation (aka AMAX Plating, Inc.) ("CSC"), a supplier to Connection Systems at the time. After CSC filed for bankruptcy protection, HEP brought suit against the Parent and Connection Systems asserting fraud and negligence based claims, and a claim for intentional interference with economic opportunity, relating to statements that a Connection Systems representative made to HEP's agent during the due diligence that HEP conducted prior to its February 2001 investment in CSC. HEP sought to hold the Parent and Connection Systems responsible for its decision to invest in CSC, the losses that it suffered upon the bankruptcy of CSC and damages for an unstated amount of not less than $55 million. On June 17, 2004, the Parent and Connection Systems filed a motion to dismiss HEP's complaint in its entirety. On or about April 7, 2005, the District Court entered an order allowing the Parent's motion to dismiss in full and denied HEP leave to amend and re-file its complaint. On May 6, 2005, HEP filed a notice of appeal from the District Court's order to dismiss. Hearings for oral appellate arguments began on December 12, 2005 before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Court of Appeals issued its order in December of 2005 denying HEP's appeal and affirming the District Courts order to dismiss.
 
On September 5, 2001, after the Parent's August 2000 acquisition of Herco Technology Corp. and Perception Laminates, Inc., the former owners of those companies filed a complaint against the Parent and two of its executive officers, including the President of Connection Systems, in the Federal District Court in San Diego, California. Pursuant to motions filed by the Parent and the plaintiffs, the District Court dismissed certain of the plaintiffs' claims, granted partial summary judgment against them with respect to the breach of contract claims and denied the plaintiffs' motion for reconsideration. The only claim that remained before the District Court from the original complaint related to an allegation of fraud in connection with the setting of the transaction price. On December 27, 2004, the plaintiffs voluntarily stipulated to the dismissal with prejudice of their remaining claim in the District Court, without having received any payment or other consideration from the Parent. On February 2, 2005, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal from the District Court's prior orders. The appeal is now pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
 
In 2001, the Parent was designated as a "potentially responsible party" ("PRP") at a clean-up site in Los Angeles, California. This claim arises out of the Parent's acquisition of Perception Laminates, Inc. in August 2000. Prior to that date, Perception Laminates had itself acquired certain assets of Alco Industries Inc. under an asset purchase agreement dated July 30, 1992. Neither the Parent nor Perception Laminates have ever conducted any operations at the Los Angeles site. The Parent has asked the State of California to drop the PRP designation, but California has not yet agreed to do so.
 
The Parent and Connection Systems believe that they have meritorious defenses against the above unsettled claims and intend to vigorously contest them. While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcomes of the unsettled claims or to provide possible ranges of losses that may arise, the Parent and Connection Systems believe the losses associated with these actions will not have a material adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or liquidity, but could possibly be material to their consolidated results of operations of any one period.
In addition, Connection Systems is subject to legal proceedings, claims and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business such as, but not limited to, patent, employment, commercial and environmental matters. Although there can be no assurance, there are no such matters pending that Connection Systems expects to be material with respect to its business, financial position or results of operations.
 
Guarantees and Indemnification Obligations
 
Connection Systems enters into agreements in the ordinary course of business with customers, resellers, distributors, integrators and suppliers. Most of these agreements require Connection Systems to defend and/or indemnify the other party against intellectual property infringement claims brought by a third party with respect to Connection Systems' products. From time to time, Connection Systems also indemnifies customers and business partners for damages, losses and liabilities they may suffer or incur in connection with personal injury, personal property damage, product liability and environmental claims relating to the use of Connection Systems' products and services or resulting from the acts or omissions of Connection Systems, its employees, authorized agents or subcontractors. On occasion, Connection Systems has also provided guarantees to customers regarding the performance of its products in addition to the warranty described below.
 
As a matter of ordinary business course, Connection Systems warrants that its products will substantially perform in accordance with its standard published specifications in effect at the time of delivery. Most warranties have a one-year duration commencing from shipment. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenue for estimated warranty expense based upon historical experience. As of October 2, 2005, Connection Systems had a product warranty accrual of $0.4 million in other accrued liabilities. In addition, and in the ordinary course of business, Connection Systems provides minimum purchase guarantees to certain of its vendors to ensure continuity of supply against the market demand. Although some of these guarantees provide penalties for cancellations and/or modifications to the purchase commitments as the market demand decreases, most of the guarantees do not. Therefore, as the market demand decreases, Connection Systems re-evaluates these guarantees and determines what charges, if any, should be recorded.
 
Based on historical experience and information known as of October 2, 2005, except for product warranty, Connection Systems has not recorded any liabilities for these guarantees and obligations as of October 2, 2005 because no liabilities have been incurred.
 
E.     RETIREMENT PLANS
 
 
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
 
The Parent has a defined benefit pension plan covering a majority of its U.S. employees. In addition, the Parent has an unfunded supplemental executive defined benefit plan in the United States to provide retirement benefits in excess of levels allowed by the Employment Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA") and the Internal Revenue Code (the "IRC"). The accompanying financial statements include an allocation of total pension expense and total pension liabilities based on the portion of the Parent's plans which are estimated to be related to Connection Systems employees. Pension expense of $0.4 million is included in Connection Systems' statements of operations for each of the nine months ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004.
 
Benefits under these plans are based on employees' years of service and compensation. The Parent's funding policy is to make contributions to the plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible. The assets of the U.S. defined benefit plan consist primarily of equity and fixed income securities.
 
Post Retirement Benefit Plans
 
In addition to receiving pension benefits, U.S. employees who meet retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in the Parent's Welfare Plan, which includes death, medical and dental benefits up to age 65. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees' survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Connection Systems' current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. The accompanying financial statements include an allocation of total post retirement expense and total post retirement liabilities based on the portion of the Parent's plan which is estimated to be related to Connection Systems employees. Post retirement benefit expense of $0.4 million and $0.5 million are included in the Connection Systems' statement of operations for the nine months ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004, respectively.
F.     SAVINGS PLAN
 
The Parent sponsors an employee retirement savings plan covering substantially all U.S. employees. Under the Parent's savings plan, employees may contribute up to 15% of their compensation (subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations). The Parent annually matches employee contributions up to 6% of such compensation at rates ranging from 50% to 100% for employees in the defined benefit plan. For all other employees, the Parent annually matches up to 5% of such compensation at rates ranging from 100% to 150%. The Connection Systems employees' contributions vest 25% per year for the first four years of employment, and contributions for those employees with four or more years of service vest immediately. The Parent has also established an unfunded supplemental savings plan to provide savings benefits in excess of those allowed by ERISA and the IRC. The provisions of this plan are the same as the savings plan. Under the Parent's savings plans, amounts allocated to Connection Systems operations were $1.3 million and $1.8 millionfor the nine months ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004, respectively.
 
G.    SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHIC AND SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER INFORMATION
 
Connection Systems operates as one segment for the development and manufacturing of high bandwidth backplane assemblies and high density connectors.
 
 
(1)       Revenues are attributable to geographic areas based on location of customer site.
 
Because a substantial portion of Connection Systems' revenue is derived from the sales of product manufactured in the United States, long-lived assets located outside the United States are less than 10% of total assets.
 
H.    RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Related Party Revenue
 
Connection Systems' revenue from sales of products to the Parent was $6.9 million and $24.2 million for the nine months ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004, respectively. The cost of products for the sales to the Parent was $6.6 million and $19.5 million for the nine months ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004, respectively. The combined condensed balance sheet of Connection Systems includes accounts receivable from related party of $.5 million as of October 2, 2005 from the sales of products to the Parent.
Parent Allocations
 
Connection Systems' costs and expenses include allocations from the Parent for centralized information technology, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance, treasury and other corporate and infrastructure costs, as well as allocations for profit sharing and variable compensation. These allocations have been determined on bases that Connection Systems and the Parent considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or the benefit received by Connection Systems. The allocation methods include relative sales, headcount, salaries, square footage and usage. Allocated costs included in the statement of operations were as follows:
 
 
Connection Systems' employees participate in various Parent-sponsored employee benefit plans (See Notes E and F).
 
Connection Systems' assets and liabilities include allocations from the Parent related to the centralized services provided by the Parent, including prepaid insurance premiums, cash surrender value of split dollar life policies for certain executives, general and administrative prepaid assets and accruals, such as prepaid maintenance fees and legal and audit fee accruals, and employee benefit related accruals. The combined condensed balance sheet of Connection Systems' as of October 2, 2005 includes the following allocated assets and liabilities:
 
 
Parent Company Investment
 
Parent company investment consists of the Parent's equity investment in Connection Systems. Changes in the Parent's net investment represent the Parent's transfer of its net investment in Connection Systems, after giving effect to the net earnings of Connection Systems plus (minus) net cash transfers to (from) the Parent. The Parent's corporate debt and the related interest expense have not been allocated to the combined condensed financial statements.
 
I.      SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
On December 1, 2005, the Parent completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of TCS to Amphenol Corporation for
$384.7 million in cash, which includes a post-closing net asset value adjustment of approximately $5.3 million.

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
Explanatory note
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information has been derived by the application of pro forma adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements of Amphenol Corporation ("Amphenol" or the "Company") and Connection Systems ("TCS") for the periods indicated. The pro forma adjustments assume the acquisition of TCS was completed as of September 30, 2005 for the pro forma balance sheet and as of the beginning of the periods presented for the pro forma statements of operations in accordance with the terms of the Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Agreement") dated October 10, 2005 and financed with amounts drawn under the Company's existing revolving credit facilities. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and reflect a reasonable estimate of the effects of the TCS acquisition for the periods presented on the basis set forth herein. The Company has also included a supplemental disclosure in Note 4 to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information. This disclosure presents a summary of costs that are not expected to be incurred in the future. These costs include nonrecurring restructuring costs, a nonrecurring gain on sale of a business and known cash savings realized at or immediately following the acquisition date relating to (1) reduced employee benefit costs and (2) elimination of allocations for centralized services by TCS's former parent company that will not be incurred by the combined company.
 
Amphenol accounted for the acquisition as a purchase using the accounting standards established in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, Business Combinations, and, accordingly, the excess purchase price over the fair market value of the underlying net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. It is anticipated that the final assessment of values will not differ materially from the preliminary assessment used in the accompanying pro forma combined condensed financial information.
 
The required unaudited pro forma statement of operations for the latest available fiscal year, is based on Amphenol's and TCS's statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004. The required unaudited pro forma statement of operations for the latest available interim period is based on Amphenol's and TCS's statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and October 2, 2005, respectively. The required unaudited pro forma balance sheet for the latest available interim period is based on Amphenol's balance sheet as of September 30, 2005 and TCS's balance sheet as of October 2, 2005.
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and does not purport to represent what our financial position or results of operations would have been had the TCS acquisition in fact occurred on the dates assumed, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in future periods. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information has been prepared from, and should be read in conjunction with, the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in (1) the Amphenol Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, (2) the Amphenol Corporation Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and (3) TCS's combined financial statements included in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information assumes that the TCS acquisition actually occurred as of September 30, 2005 for the pro forma balance sheet and as of beginning of the period presented for the pro forma statements of operations and was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, Business Combinations. Accordingly, the purchase price was allocated first to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and then to the liabilities of TCS based upon their fair market values. The excess purchase price over the fair market value of the underlying net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. It is anticipated that the final assessment of values will not differ materially from the preliminary assessment used in the accompanying pro forma financial information.
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," amortization of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets is replaced with annual impairment tests. The Company will perform annual impairment tests to determine whether an impairment charge related to the carrying value of the Company's recorded goodwill is necessary.
 
Note 2  Statement of Operations Pro forma Adjustments
 
(a)
         
Reflects the benefit related to the reduction in cost resulting from Teradyne's pension plan, which was not assumed by Amphenol, as set forth in the following table.
 
 
(b)
         
Reflects the operating lease expense related to certain property which is owned by Teradyne and will be leased prospectively ($900 and $1,200 for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004, respectively).
 
(c)
         
Represents amortization of identifiable intangibles, the elimination of depreciation related to certain fixed assets not acquired as well as the reduction in depreciation resulting from the net reduction in the values of the property and equipment from their historical cost to their fair values, as set forth in the following table.
 
(d)
         
Represents interest expense, amortization of the related financing costs and incremental recurring bank fees resulting from financing the acquisition, as set forth in the following table:
 
 
(i)
            
Reflects pro forma interest expense on the revolving credit facility assuming approximately $394,277 of borrowings and an interest rate of 5.5%.
 
(ii)
         
Reflects the amortization of deferred financing fees of $750 related to the increase in the aggregate commitments of Amphenol's revolving credit facility over the expected remaining term.
 
(iii)
      
Reflects the pro forma facility fee of .15% on the $250 million increase in the borrowing capacity on the revolving credit facility.
 
(e)
         
Income tax expense (benefit) using the Amphenol effective tax rate of34%for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 33% for the nine months ended September 30, 2005.
 
Note 3  Balance Sheet Pro forma Adjustments
 
(a)
         
Reflects the assets and liabilities not acquired in connection with the acquisition, as set forth in the following table.
 
 
(b)
         
Reflects the adjustment in the value of the inventory from the historical cost to fair value.
 
(c)
         
Reflects the net reduction in the values of the property and equipment from their historical cost to their fair values ($40,212).
 
(d)
         
Reflects the deferred financing costs related to the increase in the aggregate commitments of Amphenol's revolving credit facility, which will be amortized over the term of the revolving credit facility.
 
(e)
         
Reflects the goodwill and identifiable intangibles recorded in conjunction with the purchase accounting, as set forth in the following table.
 
Intangible assets and their related fair values consist of the appraised value of (1) license agreements ($6.1 million), (2) proprietary technology ($30.2 million) and (3) customer relationships ($9.0 million). These items constitute identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization. Value assigned to license agreements, proprietary technology and customer relationships will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, determined to be 4 to 8 years, 15 years and 5 years, respectively.
 
(f)
           
Reflects the funds drawn
under the Company's existing revolving credit facilities to finance the acquisition including the deferred financing fees related to the increase in the aggregate commitments of Amphenol's revolving credit facility. For purposes of the accompanying unaudited pro forma financial information, the purchase price of $384.7 million has been used, which includes a post-closing purchase price adjustment of ($5.3) million. In addition, the Company incurred approximately $8.8 million of related expenses.
 
Note 4  Supplemental Forward Looking Pro Forma Disclosure
 
To supplement our pro forma combined financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, the Company uses certain measures which are adjusted from our pro forma GAAP amounts based upon actions taken either on the purchase date or known subsequent changes in cost structure, the results of which are as shown below. These adjustments are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current and expected financial performance and are "forward looking". The adjustments are presented for informational purposes only and do not purport to represent what our financial position or results of operations would have been had the TCS acquisition in fact occurred on the dates assumed, nor are they necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in future periods. Such information should be considered as subject to uncertainties that exist in the Company's operations and business environment. The following table sets forth cash savings that are expected to be achieved as of or immediately following the acquisition date as well as the reversal of non recurring restructuring costs and nonrecurring gains on the sale of a business which management does not expect to recur in the future. This information is included to assist investors and management in assessing the Company's operating results in a manner that is focused on the performance of the Company's ongoing combined operations.
 
 
In conjunction with the acquisition, TCS's historical management incentive plan was terminated and replaced by an incentive plan which has higher profitability targets. These targets would not have been achieved at TCS's historic profitability levels and, as such, the related expense would not have been incurred.
(i)
           
Teradyne had historically allocated corporate general and administrative costs to TCS. Such costs included information technology, human resources, tax, legal, corporate treasury and finance as well as executive administration related items. The acquisition agreement included the hiring of certain Teradyne employees and assumption of certain agreements that related to services performed by Teradyne for TCS. In addition, Amphenol assumed the performance of certain tax and treasury functions for TCS. This adjustment represents the excess of the amount charged to TCS by Teradyne for those centralized services over the actual cost incurred by TCS and Amphenol since the acquisition.
(ii)
          
Teradyne had significant restructuring activities in 2004 and 2005 at TCS resulting in related expenses. No significant restructuring activities are expected to take place in the future, and as such, these costs are considered nonrecurring, and are therefore included above as expected savings.
(iii)
         
TCS had recognized gains on the sale of a business in 2004 and 2005, which are not expected to occur in the future.
(iv)
         
 


