FILE:BK/BK-8K-20071019150106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
On October 18, 2007 the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for third quarter 2007 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. However, the references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K. The information included herein is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated by reference into all filings made by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which state that this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated therein by reference.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
 
 
Number
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
-- The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE:BK) reported third quarter income from continuing operations of $642 million and diluted earnings per share of 56 cents which compares to 41 cents a year ago and 62 cents sequentially. The merger of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. with Mellon Financial Corporation was completed July 1, 2007.
NEW YORK, N.Y., October 18, 2007
 
 
Income from continuing operations was $448 million in the second quarter of 2007, and $298 million in the third quarter of 2006.
"We are off to a tremendous start as a new company," said Robert P. Kelly, chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Mellon. "During a volatile market environment, we delivered strong double-digit increases in revenue and profit reflecting a combination of impressive organic growth and the positive impact of market volatility on our securities servicing businesses. While the asset management environment during the quarter was challenging, we capitalized on our strength in money market funds and won a landmark mandate in China. Our pipelines are in great shape, credit quality remains strong, we launched our new brand and the integration is proceeding well."
The results for the third quarter of 2007 include the net pre-tax benefit of $27 million from a settlement received for early termination of a contract that occurred in 2005 associated with the clearing business, as well as the pre-tax write-offs of the value of the remaining interest in a hedge fund manager that was sold in 2006 ($32 million) and internally developed software ($6 million). In addition, the impact of the merger in the third quarter on the state marginal tax rate required a recalculation of the yield on the leverage lease portfolio. The effect was a $22 million reduction in net interest revenue, together with a $45 million tax benefit recorded as a reduction to taxes. The net impact of these items increased earnings per share by approximately 1 cent.
 
1
(Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the third quarter of 2007. This is followed by commentary that compares the current period to pro forma combined results of the third quarter of 2006 unless otherwise noted. The appendix to this release provides the pro forma combined results, without purchase accounting adjustments and assumes that the merger had occurred at the beginning of the third quarter of 2006. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Summary Report for detailed business sector information.)
Third Quarter Highlights of The Bank of New York Mellon
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
Third Quarter Highlights of The Bank of New York Mellon, continued
 
 
The increase from both prior periods reflects a higher level of average interest-earning assets driven principally by the growth in client deposits. The net margin increased 22 basis points compared to the prior year and 7 basis points sequentially, principally reflecting the benefit of wider spreads on investment securities. Sequentially, the margin benefited from the impact of market volatility on short-term spreads as well as higher deposit levels, lower bond premium amortization due to slowing prepayments, partially offset by the negative impact of the required recalculation of the yield on the leverage lease portfolio under FAS 13 ($22 million).
 
Excluding merger and integration expense ($218 million) and intangible amortization ($131 million), noninterest expense on a pro forma combined basis increased 16% compared to the third quarter of 2006 and declined 3% (unannualized) sequentially. The results reflect $79 million in expense synergies ($62 million net of open positions eliminated) associated with the merger (detailed in the Quarterly Earnings Summary Report).
On a pro forma combined basis, excluding merger and integration expense, intangible amortization expense and the non-operating items in the third quarter of 2007 detailed on page 1 and the second quarter of 2007 detailed on page 11, we generated 1,100 bps of positive operating leverage compared to the prior year and 400 bps sequentially.
 
 
The following comparisons are to legacy The Bank of New York only.
 
 
 
3
 
 
On Oct. 9, 2007, The Bank of New York Mellon declared a quarterly common stock dividend of 24 cents per share. This cash dividend is payable on Nov. 2, 2007, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Oct. 24, 2007.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 37 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has more than $20 trillion in assets under custody and administration, more than $1.1 trillion in assets under management and services $11 trillion in outstanding debt. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
Earnings Release Format
The third quarter 2007 results in this release reflect The Bank of New York and Mellon on a consolidated basis. The results for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2007 in this release include nine months of The Bank of New York and three months for Mellon which reflect all related purchase accounting adjustments. All prior period financial results are for The Bank of New York only, unless labeled pro forma.
Throughout this earnings release, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted. Quarterly returns are annualized. Certain amounts are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. Where financial measures are presented excluding certain specified amounts, we believe the presentation enhances investor understanding of period to period results.
Supplemental Financial Information
Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Summary for supplemental financial information of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, including 5-quarter trends of fee and other revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense as well as business sector trends. The Quarterly Earnings Summary is available at (Investor Relations - financial releases).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Bruce W. Van Saun, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from The Bank of New York Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8 a.m. EDT on Thursday, Oct. 18, 2007. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-2456 (U.S.) and (517) 623-4161 (International) Pass code: Earnings, or by logging on to . The earnings release together with the quarterly earnings summary will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on Oct. 18. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning Oct. 18 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Thursday, Nov. 1, 2007 by dialing (800) 810-4036 (U.S.) or (402) 280-1623 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
Nonperforming Assets
Nonperforming assets were $37 million at Sept. 30, 2007, down from $38 million at Sept. 30, 2006 and up from $27 million at June 30, 2007. Nonperforming asset balances remain at historically low levels.
Consolidated Net Income Including Discontinued Operations
Net income, including discontinued operations, totaled $640 million, or 56 cents per share, in the third quarter of 2007, compared with $352 million, or 49 cents per share, in the third quarter of 2006, and $445 million, or 62 cents per share, in the second quarter of 2007.
Supplemental information - Earnings Per Share Presented on a GAAP and Non-GAAP basis
In the merger transaction between The Bank of New York and Mellon, The Bank of New York shareholders received ..9434 shares of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. Mellon Financial Corp. shareholders received one share of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock for each share of Mellon Financial Corp. common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. Historical earnings per share for The Bank of New York are presented in post-merger share count terms in this Earnings Release and the Quarterly Earnings Summary. The table below converts earnings per share for The Bank of New York into post-merger share count terms for periods prior to July 1, 2007.
Reported amounts are presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that this supplemental non-GAAP information is useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of our business. We believe they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which our management internally monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items also are excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance because management does not consider them particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.
 
 
8
Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements
Our Company's fourth quarter 2006 acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and sale of our Retail Business to JPMorgan Chase included a "Like Kind Exchange" (the "LKE") of finite lived intangible assets, principally core deposit intangibles, under Internal Revenue Code section ("Section") 1031. The LKE deferred taxes of $164 million were treated as a liability acquired in the business combination with an offsetting increase to goodwill.
We reviewed the transaction and now believe that $164 million of deferred tax expense should have been recognized on the gain related to the Retail Business intangibles included in the LKE with JPMorgan Chase. Accordingly, we have corrected the fourth quarter 2006 financial statements with a non-cash charge to discontinued operations  income taxes and a reduction in goodwill of $164 million. This revision does not impact income from continuing operations or our tangible common equity.
As shown in the financial information included in this release, we have revised our prior years' financial statements to reflect these taxes in discontinued operations. Because the revision was not material to any prior year financial statements, the revisions to prior periods will be presented in future filings, pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements." Financial statements for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 will be revised in the Dec. 31, 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The table below presents the effect of the correction on our previously reported consolidated statements of income for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2006 and for the three-month period ended Dec. 31, 2006.
 
The effect of the correction on the Dec. 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet is as follows:
 
 
9
The effect of the correction on the 2006 consolidated statement of cash flows is as follows:
 
 
10
APPENDIX
 
 
 
11
APPENDIX
 
 
 
12
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, statements with respect to future financial goals, the merger of The Bank of New York and Mellon, including expectations with respect to the merged companies, integration and operations after the merger, achievement of milestones, future growth and prospects. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon (the Company) which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company's control). The following risks, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements: the businesses of The Bank of New York and Mellon may not be integrated successfully or the integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; the combined company may not realize, to the extent or at the time it expects, revenue synergies and cost savings from the transaction; revenue following the transaction may be lower than expected as a result of losses of customers or other reasons; deposit attrition, operating costs, customer loss and business disruption following the transaction, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, may be greater than expected; market volatility; operational risk; changes in political and economic conditions; equity, fixed-income and foreign exchange market fluctuations; geographic sources of income; the price of oil; and levels of tax-free income. Additional factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and The Bank of New York Company, Inc.'s and Mellon Financial Corporation's historical reports (such as Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of Oct. 18, 2007, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
13


