FILE:BK/BK-8K-20070808151815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On July 2, 2007, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation filed a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing that on July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. This Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-K is being filed to provide additional financial information, as permitted by Item 9.01(a)(4) and Item 9.01(b)(2) of such report.
Some statements in the Exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A are forward-looking. These include all statements about the future results and operations of the Company, as well as the following: the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the ABN AMRO Mellon joint venture; the probability of losses relating to Three Rivers Funding Corporation, a special purpose entity that issues commercial paper and is described in Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements; expected cash contributions to funded defined benefit pension plans for the remainder of 2007; the amount of contingent additional consideration the Company is obligated to pay; expected increases in state tax reserves; collectibility of contractual principal and interest on temporarily-impaired securities; reduction in funding costs; results of pending and threatened litigation and regulatory proceedings and settlements; expectations with respect to revenues and operating expenses following the merger; identification and recording of certain costs within one year after completion of the merger; implementation of certain decisions relating to the merger within one year after finalization of plans; and incurrence of transaction-related expenses, including exit and disposal costs, over a period of three years after the merger.
Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, as well as other uncertainties affecting future results and the value of the Company's stock and factors which represent risks associated with the business and operations of the Company, can be found in the "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and the "Risk Factors" sections included in the registration statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-140863) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") on April 17, 2007 and containing a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus that was mailed to the shareholders of each of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial
Corporation; the "Risk Factors" section of the registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-144261) filed with the Commission on July 2, 2007; the "Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors" section in The Bank of New York Company, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007; the "Cautionary Statement" section included in Mellon Financial Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 and in Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and any subsequent reports filed with the Commission prior to the merger; and any subsequent reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
The unaudited consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2007, and related unaudited consolidated income statement and statement of cash flows for the six month periods ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, and unaudited consolidated statement of changes in shareholders' equity for the six month period ended June 30, 2007, of Mellon Financial Corporation and subsidiaries, are included as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 9.01(a).
An unaudited pro forma combined consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2007, and unaudited pro forma combined consolidated income statements for the six month period ended June 30, 2007 and the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 are included as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 9.01(b).
The exhibits listed in the index to exhibits are included as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
Note: In 2006, Mellon included the impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132R" in total comprehensive income for 2006. The $159 million after-tax impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 should have been recorded as a change in accounting principal with a direct adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, total comprehensive income in 2006 was reported as $836 million but should have been $995 million.
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Note 1  Basis of presentation and informational disclosures
Basis of presentation
On July 1, 2007, Mellon Financial Corporation ("Mellon") and The Bank of New York Company, Inc. ("The Bank of New York") merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon"), with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon for accounting and financial reporting purposes. In this document, references to "our," "we," "us," the "Company" and similar terms for periods prior to July 1, 2007 refer to Mellon, and references to "our," "we," "us," the "Company" and similar terms for periods on and after July 1, 2007 refer to BNY Mellon.
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Mellon and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with Mellon's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations for the periods covered have been included. In addition to reclassifications related to discontinued operations and reclassifications in connection with the realignment of business sectors and revisions to income statement/balance sheet line items described on page 7, other reclassifications are occasionally made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
Other guarantees and indemnities
As a result of the merger of Mellon and The Bank of New York into BNY Mellon on July 1, 2007, by operation of law BNY Mellon assumed all liabilities under the guarantees and indemnities of Mellon described below.
In the normal course of business, Mellon offers guarantees in support of certain joint ventures and subsidiaries, and certain other guarantees and indemnities.
 
Standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees irrevocably obligate Mellon for a stated period to disburse funds to a third-party beneficiary if our customer fails to perform under the terms of an agreement with the beneficiary. We must recognize, at the inception of standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. At June 30, 2007, we had a liability of $7 million related to letters of credit.
A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days. Securities are lent with and without indemnification against broker default. Custodian securities lent with indemnification against broker default of return of securities totaled $159 billion at June 30, 2007 and were primarily collateralized by cash, or to a lesser degree securities.
For additional information on standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees, and custodian securities lent with indemnification against broker default of return of securities, see pages 49, 50, 107 and 108 of Mellon's 2006 Annual Report.
Mellon's primary banking subsidiary, Mellon Bank, N.A. (Mellon Bank), and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (ABN AMRO) entered into a joint venture to provide global securities services, with operations commencing in January 2003. Each of the two partners signed a statutory declaration under Dutch law to be jointly and severally liable with the joint venture to parties that have a provable contractual debt or damage claim. The benefit of this
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
declaration is potentially available to all creditors and customers of the joint venture with valid legal claims if the joint venture defaults. The guarantee totaled $110 billion at June 30, 2007 primarily relating to securities lending activity. Agency securities lending represented $104 billion of this guarantee at June 30, 2007, primarily related to the indemnification of the owner of the securities against broker default. These securities lending transactions were collateralized primarily with cash and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development government securities totaling $102 billion. The joint venture also indemnifies $101 million of cash collateral reinvested in repurchase agreements for risk of market or credit loss. The potential exposure of this guarantee assumes that there is no capital or assets of the joint venture to satisfy such claims, and that there is no level of contribution by ABN AMRO, which has an S&P 500 long-term credit rating of AA- and a Moody's senior debt rating of Aa2. On July 5, 2007, BNY Mellon and ABN AMRO announced that Mellon Bank and ABN AMRO had entered into an agreement for Mellon Bank's purchase of ABN AMRO's interest in the joint venture. The transaction, which is subject to certain conditions including regulatory and other approvals, is expected to close during late third quarter or early fourth quarter of 2007. It is anticipated that as a result of the purchase, Mellon Bank will on a going-forward basis be jointly and severally liable with the joint venture under the above-described guarantee, without any contribution by ABN AMRO.
Mellon Bank has a referral relationship with, and provides administrative services to, Three Rivers Funding Corp. (TRFC), a special purpose entity that issues commercial paper. TRFC is owned by an independent third party and is not a subsidiary of either Mellon Bank or Mellon. TRFC's financial results are not included in the financial statements of Mellon Bank or Mellon. Fee revenue of $2 million was received from TRFC in the second quarter of 2007 and $1 million in the second quarter of 2006. At June 30, 2007, TRFC's receivables totaled $4.037 billion and commercial paper outstanding totaled $4.051 billion. A letter of credit provided by Mellon Bank in support of TRFC's commercial paper totaled $171 million at June 30, 2007. Mellon's maximum loss exposure related to TRFC is the full amount of the liquidity facility provided to TRFC as
referred to in the table on page 6, or $4.051 billion, at June 30, 2007. However, the probability of this loss scenario is remote as it would mean that all of TRFC's receivables were wholly uncollectible. In addition, there are significant structural protections built into each transaction to provide protection against uncollectible receivables. The facilities that provide liquidity and credit support to TRFC are included in the table of Other guarantees and indemnities on page 6. The estimated liability for losses related to these arrangements, if any, is included in the reserve for unfunded commitments. For a further discussion of our relationship with TRFC, see Note 7 of Mellon's 2006 Annual Report.
Mellon has also provided customary representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing financial services. We have purchased insurance to mitigate certain of these risks. Mellon is a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities or other transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other partners do not honor their obligations. It is not possible to estimate a maximum potential amount of payments that could be required with respect to such agreements.
Revision to business sectors and income statement/balance sheet line items
As part of the planning process for the integration of Mellon and The Bank of New York after the closing of the merger, during the first quarter of 2007 we realigned our business sectors, creating the Issuer Services and Treasury Services sectors and eliminating the Payment Solutions & Investor Services (PS&IS) sector. The Issuer Services sector consists of Mellon Investor Services (stock transfer), which was previously included in the PS&IS sector. The Treasury Services sector consists of Working Capital Solutions (global cash management) and Mellon Financial Markets (capital markets), both previously included in the PS&IS sector, as well as Mellon Institutional Banking (large corporate
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
banking), which was previously included in the Other Segment. All prior periods have been reclassified for these changes. In addition, we changed the name of the Mellon Asset Management sector to Asset Management and the Private Wealth Management sector to Wealth Management. There were no changes to the Asset Servicing sector. During the second quarter of 2007, we initiated actions to report consistent transfer pricing and cost allocation methodologies as well as intercompany eliminations between The Bank of New York and Mellon. These changes did not affect the operations of these business lines.
In addition, several new line items were created and/or renamed on the income statement and balance sheet during the first quarter of 2007:
Income statement:
Balance sheet:
Additionally, the following reclassifications were made during the second quarter of 2007 to further conform the presentation of Mellon and The Bank of New York's Financial Statements:
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Assets under management/Securities lending cash collateral assets
Effective with the disclosure of its second quarter 2007 earnings on July 19, 2007, Mellon discloses total securities lending cash collateral assets separately. In previous disclosures, a portion of securities lending cash collateral assets was included in total assets under management. The table below provides a reconciliation of assets under management as originally reported to the current disclosure format.
 
Assets under custody and administration
Effective with the disclosure of its second quarter 2007 earnings on July 19, 2007, assets that Mellon manages also serves as the custodian for are included in both the assets under management and assets under custody/administration totals. In previous disclosures Mellon excluded, from total assets under custody and administration, assets that Mellon both managed served as the custodian for. These assets were previously only included in the assets under management. The impact of this change is to increase Mellon's assets under custody/administration by $364 billion at June 30, 2006, $376 billion at Sept. 30, 2006, $393 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $398 billion at March 31, 2007.
and
and
Clearing and execution services revenue
During the second quarter of 2007, certain of Mellon's clearing and execution services revenue was reclassified from Other revenue. This reclassification was done for reporting consistency of clearing and execution services revenue for the combined company (BNY Mellon) after the merger. The impact of the reclassification for Mellon
decreased other revenue and increased clearing and execution services revenue by $3 million in the second quarter of 2006, $2 million in each of the third quarter of 2006, fourth quarter of 2006 and first quarter of 2007 and $5 million in the first six months of 2006. All prior period amounts have been reclassified and did not affect the results of operations.
Distribution and service fees
During the second quarter of 2007, certain fees of Mellon's European asset management operations were reclassified to asset and wealth management fee revenue from distribution and servicing fee revenue. This reclassification was done to better characterize these fees due to the nature of their contracts. The impact of the reclassification decreased distribution and services fees and increased asset and wealth management fee revenue by $41 million in the second quarter of 2006, $36 million in the third quarter of 2006, $24 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, $41 million in the first quarter of 2007 and $77 million in the first six months of 2006. All prior period amounts have been reclassified and did not affect the results of operations.
(
Investment income
previously named Asset/investment income)
During the second quarter of 2007, Mellon's equity investment revenue was reclassified to Other revenue from investment income. This reclassification was done for reporting consistency of equity investment income for the combined company after the merger. The impact of the reclassification decreased investment income and increased other revenue by $5 million in the second quarter of 2006, $2 million in the third quarter of 2006, $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, $3 million in the first quarter of 2007 and $8 million in the first six months of 2006. All prior period amounts have been reclassified and did not affect the results of operations.
Investment income - return on seed capital investments
We often invest in our asset management products during the start-up phase of the investments. These investments provide sufficient capital for new
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
products to achieve their stated investment objectives. During the second quarter of 2007, Mellon's seed capital gains (losses) previously recorded in foreign exchange and other trading revenue were reclassified to investment income. This classification better characterizes the revenue relative to the nature of the investments. The impact of the reclassification from foreign exchange and other trading revenue to investment income for Mellon was a decrease of $6 million in the second quarter of 2006 and increases of $3 million in the third quarter of 2006, $14 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, $5 million in the first quarter of 2007 and $4 million for the first six months of 2006. All prior period amounts have been reclassified and did not affect the results of operations.
Merger and integration expense
Effective with the disclosure of its second quarter 2007 earnings on July 19, 2007, Mellon's merger and integration charges are reported as a separate line item. These expenses principally included amounts for personnel-related, transaction costs and integration/conversion. In previous disclosures, Mellon reported merger and integration charges in various noninterest expense categories.
The impact of the change was to reduce previously reported staff and professional, legal and other purchased services expense for Mellon. All prior periods have been reclassified and the reclassifications did not affect the results of operations or net income.
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Pension and other postretirement benefits
SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and other Postretirement Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106," requires interim period disclosures of the components of net periodic benefit cost.
 
BNY Mellon expects to make cash contributions to its funded defined benefit pension plans, principally outside the U.S., of approximately $8 million for the remainder of 2007. Cash contributions totaled $29 million in the first half of 2007.
 
 
Note 2 -- Merger with The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
On July 1, 2007, Mellon merged along with The Bank of New York into BNY Mellon. In the transaction, each share of Mellon $.50 par value common stock was converted into one share of BNY Mellon $.01 par value common stock and each share of The Bank of New York $7.50 par value common stock was converted into .9434 shares of BNY Mellon $.01 par value common stock. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon for accounting and financial reporting purposes.
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and move their financial assets, operating in 37 countries and servicing more than 100 markets. It has more than $20 trillion in assets under custody and administration, more than $1 trillion in assets under management and it services $10 trillion in outstanding debt. The combined company has annual revenues of more than $13 billion, with approximately 30% derived from asset servicing, 40% from issuer services, clearing and execution services and treasury services, and 30% from asset and wealth
management. By the end of 2008, we expect to be well positioned to capitalize on global growth trends, including the evolution of emerging markets, the increasing need for more complex financial products and services, and the increasingly global need for people to save and invest for retirement. Almost a third of combined revenue is derived internationally.
Note 3 -- Contingent and deferred consideration related to acquisitions
Mellon acquired an additional 20% interest in Mellon Financial Services Asset Management S.A., a Brazilian institutional asset management and asset servicing company, in the second quarter of 2007 for a total cost of $30 million paid in cash, bringing its total ownership to 90%. Goodwill of $29 million was recorded for this acquisition. Additional consideration of $35 million for prior acquisitions was paid in the first six months of 2007, including $20 million for DPM Mellon.
We record contingent purchase payments when amounts are determinable. Amounts generally become determinable and payable when an
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
acquisition reaches a certain level of performance. At June 30, 2007, we are potentially obligated to pay contingent additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures, could range from approximately $155 million to $375 million over the next three years. None of the potential contingent additional consideration was recorded as goodwill at June 30, 2007.
Note 4 -- Adoption of new accounting interpretation and staff position/IRS audit settlement
FIN No. 48-Taxes
Effective Jan. 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes"an Interpretation of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FASB defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by a taxing authority. The term "more-likely-than-not" means a likelihood of more than 50%. The impact of adopting FIN No. 48 was a direct increase to the beginning balance of our retained earnings of approximately $11 million and reported as a change in accounting principle. Pursuant to FIN No. 48, we will continue to record interest and penalties on income tax assessments as income tax expense. As of the date of adoption, we had $18 million of interest accrued for potential income tax exposures and $37 million of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate.
Over the next 12 months, Mellon estimates it may increase state tax reserves by approximately $13 million for various state tax positions. Years subject to examination include Federal income taxes from 2004 to present, California from 2000 to present, Massachusetts from 2001 to present, New York state from 2002 to present and the United Kingdom from 2001 to present.
FSP 13-2--Taxes
Effective Jan. 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction." FSP 13-2 amends SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases," by requiring lessors to recalculate the rate of return and periodic income allocation for leveraged lease transactions when there is a change or projected change in the timing of income tax cash flows related to leases. The Staff Position requires lessors to reassess projected income tax cash flows using a FIN No. 48 model for recognition and measurement. The impact of adopting FSP 13-2 was a direct reduction to the beginning balance of our retained earnings of approximately $17 million and reported as a change in accounting principle.
 
IRS Audit Settlement
We reached a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service during the second quarter of 2007. The settlement included the resolution of tax issues relating to the taxation of settlement proceeds from a 1993 lawsuit and lease-in-lease-out transactions. As a result of the settlement, we recorded a decrease to tax expense from continuing operations of approximately $126 million and an increase to tax expense from discontinued operations of approximately $6 million in the second quarter of 2007. The amounts included the interest on our refund which was recorded as a reduction of tax expense pursuant to FIN No. 48.
Note 5  Discontinued operations
In the first six months of 2007, $3 million after-tax of income from discontinued operations was recorded, resulting primarily from the sale of our insurance premium financing company, AFCO Credit Corporation (AFCO), and its Canadian affiliate, CAFO, Inc. (CAFO), partially offset by the tax expense discussed above which is included in the HR businesses and a loss from the sale of Mellon Venture's portfolios discussed below.
In August 2006, we announced a definitive agreement to sell AFCO and CAFO. It was determined that this business no longer fit the strategic focus on our asset management and asset servicing businesses. The sale closed on Jan. 2, 2007 resulting in a $12 million after-tax net gain in the first quarter of 2007. In the third quarter of 2006, we applied discontinued operations accounting to this business and the income statements for all periods were restated. The restatement primarily resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
of net interest revenue and the net interest margin; a slight reduction in financing-related fee revenue; a reduction in noninterest expenses; and a slight change in continuing earnings per share for certain periods.
In December 2006, Mellon sold its ownership interest in the direct and indirect portfolios of Mellon Ventures, our venture capital business. This decision was based upon the determination that this business no longer fit the strategic focus on our asset management and asset servicing businesses. A substantial portion of the sale was completed in December 2006 with subsequent closings during the first quarter of 2007. An additional $5 million after-tax loss on the sale of this business was recorded in the first quarter of 2007, resulting primarily from an adjustment to the carrying value of a receivable recorded as part of the settlement of the transaction. We applied discontinued operations accounting to this business in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the income statements for all periods were restated. This restatement resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels of investment income; a reduction in noninterest expenses; an increase in net interest revenue; and a change in continuing earnings per share.
 
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the results of the businesses discussed above are reflected as discontinued operations in all income statements presented. Because the lines of business included in discontinued operations were discrete lines of business serving classes of customers no longer
served by Mellon's continuing lines of business, the disposition of these businesses is not expected to have a material impact on continuing operations going forward.
All information in these Financial Statements and Notes reflects continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 6 -- Securities
 
Note: There were $3 million of gross realized gains and no gross realized losses on sales of securities in the first six months of 2007. At June 30, 2007, securities issued by the U.S. Government and its agencies and U.S. Government sponsored agencies (shown in the table above) exceeded 10% of shareholders' equity. At June 30, 2007, there were no other issuers that exceeded 10% of shareholders' equity.
 
At June 30, 2007, Mellon's portfolio of mortgage-backed securities was 100% AAA- rated.
Temporarily impaired securities
The unrealized loss of $190 million at June 30, 2007, as shown in the table above, is related to the movement in interest rates. All of the securities with unrealized losses are AAA-rated or carry government agency guarantees. Approximately 83% of the unrealized losses on these 964 investments have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than 12 months. Management believes the collection of the contractual principal and interest is probable and therefore all unrealized losses are considered to be temporary. As shown in the table above, unrealized gains totaled $33 million in the available-for-sale portfolio at June 30, 2007.
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 7 -- Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
The following table shows the changes to goodwill, by business sector, for the first six months of 2007.
 
 
Acquired intangible assets
 
We amortize intangible assets over their estimated useful lives. During the first six months of 2007, the net carrying amount of acquired intangible assets decreased $16 million as amortization expense of $23 million was partially offset by the effect of foreign exchange rates on non-U.S. dollar denominated intangible assets.
Based upon the current level of intangible assets, the estimated annual amortization expense for the years 2007 through 2012 is as follows:
At June 30, 2007, $941 million of goodwill and acquired intangible assets is tax deductible and $1.984 billion is non-tax deductible.
Note 8 -- Other assets
 
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Note 9 -- Long-term debt
At June 30, 2007, long-term debt included notes and debentures (with original maturities over one year) of $3.407 billion and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities of $892 million.
In the second quarter of 2007, we redeemed our Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures, each issued for a face value of $515 million. This resulted in a total pre-tax charge to income of $46 million for the redemption premiums and write-off of unamortized issuance costs. These debentures were replaced by the following securities issued in the second quarter of 2007, which will reduce our future funding costs. In May 2007, we issued $250 million of 5.20% senior notes and $250 million of floating rate senior notes maturing in May 2014. In June 2007, we issued $500 million of 6.244% fixed-to-floating rate perpetual preferred capital securities.
Note 10 -- Net interest revenue
 
Note 11  Business segments
Mellon's business segments reflect our management structure, the characteristics of our products and services, and the classes of customers to which those
products and services are delivered. Our lines of business serve two distinct major classes of clients:
Lines of business that offer similar or related products and services to common or similar client decision makers have been combined into three segments with the Asset and Wealth Management Segment and Institutional Services Segment being further divided into sector groupings. These segments are shown below:
 
As also discussed in Note 1, in the first quarter of 2007, as part of the planning process for the integration of Mellon and The Bank of New York after the closing of the merger, we realigned our business sectors. Following are the changes to Mellon's business sectors:
 
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
Additionally, in the second quarter of 2007, Mellon made the following changes in order to report sector results in a consistent manner with The Bank of New York:
 
This realignment and these changes did not affect the operation of these business lines. All prior periods have been reclassified.
 
Note: Prior periods sector data may reflect immaterial reclassifications as a result of minor changes made to be consistent with current period presentations.
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The results of our business segments are presented and analyzed on an internal management reporting basis. Revenue amounts reflect fee revenue generated directly by each sector, as well as fee revenue transferred between sectors under revenue transfer agreements. Net interest revenue is generated directly by each sector or allocated to the segments from Corporate Treasury under a transfer pricing system. The accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those described in Note 1 of Mellon's 2006 Annual Report except: other fee revenue and net interest revenue differ from the amounts shown in the Consolidated Income Statement because amounts presented in Business Segments are on a fully taxable equivalent basis (FTE); credit quality expense (revenue) for the sectors with loans is presented on a net charge-off (recovery) basis; and charges for litigation settlements are generally allocated when the related matters are settled and payment is made.
The operations of acquired businesses are integrated with the existing business segments soon after most acquisitions are completed. As a result of the integration of staff support functions, management of customer relationships, operating processes and the financial impact of funding the acquisitions, we cannot precisely determine the impact of acquisitions on income before taxes and therefore do not report it.
The business segment information is reported on a continuing operations basis for all periods presented. See Note 5 of this report for a discussion of discontinued operations.
See pages 24 through 29 of Mellon's 2006 Annual Report for a discussion of the products and services offered, the distribution channels for the products and services and the factors that drive the performance of the Asset Management, Wealth Management and Asset Servicing sectors. The Issuer Services and Treasury Services sector and Other Segment are discussed below.
Issuer Services sector
The Issuer Services sector provides a diverse array of products and services to corporations and shareholders, including stock transfer and recordkeeping services, investment plan services, demutualizations, corporate actions, unclaimed
property services and employee stock-based compensation plans. Revenue is driven by the volume of transactions processed and types of services provided.
Treasury Services sector
The Treasury Services sector includes working capital solutions (formerly Global Cash Management); Mellon Financial Markets (capital markets business); and Mellon Institutional Banking (large corporate banking). Working Capital Solutions revenue is driven by the volume of transactions processed, types of service provided and net interest revenue earned from deposit balances generated by activity across the business operations. Mellon Financial Markets' revenue is driven by the volume and size of our fixed income securities transactions in both the primary and secondary markets, the volume of money market fund balances distributed by Mellon Financial Markets, as well as the underwriting of transactions for clients in the public finance, asset-backed finance and debt capital markets groups. Mellon Institutional Banking's revenue is primarily driven by loan levels.
Other Segment
 
The Other Segment includes:
 
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Revenue in the Other Segment primarily reflects:
 
Noninterest expense includes:
 
Average economic capital represents capital in excess of amounts of economic capital allocated to the business sectors, as well as economic capital required to support business exits and corporate treasury.
 
Note 12 -- Supplemental information to the consolidated statement of cash flows
 
Note 13 -- Legal proceedings
Various legal actions and proceedings are pending or are threatened against the Company and its subsidiaries and certain former subsidiaries, some of which seek relief or damages in amounts that are substantial. These actions and proceedings arise in the ordinary course of our businesses and operations and include suits relating to our servicing, investment, mutual fund, advisory, trust, custody, shareholder services, working capital solutions, lending, collections and other activities and operations. Certain actions and proceedings relate to businesses that have been divested. From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries may be involved in regulatory enforcement matters in which claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and/or other remedial sanctions are possible.
As previously reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated Aug. 18, 2006, our bank subsidiary, Mellon Bank, entered into a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania that relates to the April 2001 incident in Mellon's Pittsburgh IRS Processing Unit. Under the terms of the settlement, we have agreed to have an independent third party monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement for a three year period. No monetary penalties or fines were imposed by the agreement, although we have reimbursed the federal government for $30 thousand of costs incurred by an outside vendor. If we comply with the terms of the agreement, the U.S.
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Attorney will not prosecute us. The agreement should not impair our ability to serve as a long-standing government contractor. Mellon and the Department of Justice have entered into a settlement agreement regarding possible claims under the False Claims Act arising from the April 2001 incident in Mellon's Pittsburgh IRS Processing Unit. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, Mellon has paid $16.5 million in exchange for the settlement and release of all claims.
As previously reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 30, 2005, Mellon Investor Services LLC (MIS), our transfer agent subsidiary, has received a "Wells Notice" from the Philadelphia District Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) indicating that the staff intends to recommend that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action against MIS for violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. A Wells Notice indicates that the SEC's staff has made a preliminary decision to recommend that the SEC authorize the staff to bring a civil action. However, a Wells Notice is not a formal allegation or proof of wrongdoing. The notice provides MIS the opportunity to respond formally to the SEC staff before the staff makes a final determination whether to recommend that the SEC initiate an action.
The SEC staff has informed MIS that its recommendation relates to MIS' disclosure practices to its transfer agency (issuer) clients during the period 2001 through late 2004 concerning the receipt of fees from a search firm that performs in-depth searches for "lost" shareholders. Fees received by MIS from this firm during this period aggregate to approximately $5 million. MIS believes that the SEC staff has been investigating related practices at other transfer agents. MIS has been cooperating fully with the SEC staff in its investigation and has made a submission explaining why it believes that its conduct was lawful.
Because of the complex nature of some of these legal actions and proceedings, it may be a number of years before such matters ultimately are resolved. After consultation with legal counsel, Mellon's management believes that the aggregate liability, if any, resulting from such pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows, although there could be a material effect on results of operations for a particular period.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. ("The Bank of New York") and Mellon Financial Corporation ("Mellon Financial") merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("The Bank of New York Mellon"). The following Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet combines the respective historical Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial giving effect to the merger as if it had been completed on June 30, 2007. The pro forma balance sheet reflects that the merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon Financial by The Bank of New York and, accordingly, includes adjustments to record assets and liabilities of Mellon Financial at their estimated fair values, which are subject to further adjustment as additional information becomes available and additional analyses are performed. The related pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
The following Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Statements of Income for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and year ended Dec. 31, 2006 combine the respective historical Consolidated Statements of Income of The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial giving effect to the merger as if it had become effective at Jan. 1, 2006 as an acquisition by The Bank of New York of Mellon Financial using the purchase method of accounting and giving effect to the related pro forma adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
We anticipate that the merger will provide The Bank of New York Mellon with financial benefits that include reduced operating expenses. The pro forma information does not reflect the benefits of expected cost savings, opportunities to earn additional revenue, the impact of restructuring and transaction-related costs and, accordingly, does not attempt to predict or suggest future results. It also does not necessarily reflect what the historical results of The
Bank of New York Mellon would have been had the merger been completed during these periods.
The unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information and notes are presented for illustrative purposes only. They include various estimates, which are subject to material change, and may not necessarily be indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have occurred if the transaction had been consummated as of the applicable date or which may be attained in the future.
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
 
 
Note 1  Purchase business combination
The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of Mellon Financial by The Bank of New York using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the assets and liabilities of Mellon Financial were recorded at their respective fair values on the date the transaction was completed. The transaction was effected by the issuance of The Bank of New York Mellon's common stock, $0.01 par value per share, to The Bank of New York shareholders and Mellon Financial shareholders. Each share of The Bank of New York common stock was exchanged for 0.9434 shares of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock, and each share of Mellon Financial common stock was exchanged for one share of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock. The shares of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock issued to effect the transaction were recorded at $39.86 per share. This amount was determined by averaging the closing price of The Bank of New York common stock for the two trading days before the Dec. 4, 2006 announcement of the transaction and the two trading days after the announcement of the transaction (which includes the day of the announcement), and dividing by The Bank of New York exchange ratio.
If a shareholder of The Bank of New York was otherwise entitled to a fractional share of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock, cash was issued instead of such fraction share of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock. The pro forma financial statements do not present an estimate of such cash, which was not material and was funded by cash on hand.
The allocation of the transaction's purchase price included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2007 after thorough analyses to determine the fair values of Mellon Financial's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of July 1, 2007. The pro forma financial information presented includes adjustments to record certain tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities of Mellon Financial at their respective estimated fair values. The pro forma adjustments included in this pro forma financial information are subject to updates as additional information becomes available and as additional
analyses are performed and may be recorded for up to one year from the merger date. Any change in the estimated fair value of the net assets of Mellon Financial may change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill. Material intercompany transactions have been eliminated from the unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information.
The goodwill recorded in connection with the merger is not subject to amortization and none is deductible for tax purposes. The customer relationships, customer contract-based, core deposit and noncompete intangibles will be amortized over their estimated economic lives based on the pattern of usage or consumption, if determinable. Mutual fund advisory contract and trade name intangibles with indefinite lives will not be subject to amortization in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142.
The Bank of New York Mellon is in the process of finalizing the allocation method of the goodwill and intangibles to reportable segments and expects to complete the allocation in the third quarter of 2007.
Note 2  Pro forma financial information
Pro forma financial information for the transaction is included as of June 30, 2007 and for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006. The pro forma adjustments in the pro forma financial statements reflect the right of each Mellon Financial shareholder to receive one share of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock for each share of Mellon Financial held by such holder of record, based on the number of shares of Mellon Financial that were outstanding on June 30, 2007. The unaudited pro forma financial information presented in the pro forma financial statements is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of The Bank of New York Mellon.
The pro forma balance sheet adjustments reflect the issuance of 1.135 billion shares of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock with an aggregate par value of $11 million and an increase in paid-in capital of $15.2 billion as shown in Note 4; goodwill of $10.8 billion as shown in Note 3; and amortizing and indefinite-lived intangibles of $2.7 billion and
 
 
$2.4 billion, respectively, as shown in Note 5. Also included in the pro forma balance sheet adjustments is an increase in other liabilities, which includes estimated exit and transaction costs of $138 million, other asset and liability fair value adjustments, and an increase of $1.7 billion in deferred income taxes.
Upon completion of the merger, The Bank of New York stock options were exchanged for stock options in The Bank of New York Mellon and the exercise price per share was adjusted for the 0.9434 exchange ratio.
Mellon Financial stock options were exchanged for stock options in The Bank of New York Mellon and the option price per share was not adjusted as the exchange ratio is one Mellon Financial share for one The Bank of New York Mellon share. All unvested Mellon Financial options granted prior to Dec. 4, 2006 were accelerated upon approval of the transaction by Mellon Financial's shareholders on May 24, 2007, except for those for which waivers to acceleration were obtained. Vested stock options issued by The Bank of New York Mellon in exchange for options held by employees and directors of Mellon Financial were considered part of the purchase price. Accordingly, the purchase price includes an estimated fair value of stock options of $302 million.
The fair value of The Bank of New York Mellon stock options that were issued in exchange for Mellon Financial stock options was estimated by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with market assumptions. Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective market assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, which if changed can materially affect fair value estimates. The more significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value included volatility of 25 percent, a dividend yield of 2.20 percent, an expected life of 50-75 percent of the remaining contractual terms and a risk-free interest rate for U.S. government bonds having a remaining life equal to the respective options' expected lives.
The estimated exit cost liabilities incurred in the transaction consisted principally of personnel-related costs, which included involuntary termination benefits for Mellon Financial employees to be severed in connection with the transaction, relocation costs for continuing Mellon Financial
employees and costs to cancel contracts of Mellon Financial that will provide no future benefit to The Bank of New York Mellon. The estimated $76 million of exit cost liabilities include only those costs associated with Mellon Financial. The estimated transaction costs of $62 million are included in goodwill.
During the six months ended June 30, 2007 and year ended Dec. 31, 2006, The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial acquired businesses or portions of businesses which are included herein only from the date of completion.
 
 
Note 3  Purchase price and goodwill
The computation of the purchase price, the allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of Mellon Financial based on fair values estimated at June 30, 2007, the estimated intangibles and the resulting amount of goodwill follows:
 
See Note 5 for footnote explanations.
 
Note 4  Pro forma consolidated shareholders' equity
The pro forma adjustments related to shareholders' equity on the pro forma combined consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2007, are presented below.
 
 
 
Note 5 -- Pro forma adjustments to financial statements
 
 
 
N/ANot applicable.
 
 
 
completed on Jan. 1, 2006, would be a decrease in net periodic pension and other post-retirement benefit costs of approximately $59 million in 2006, $59 million in 2007, $42 million in 2008, $31 million in 2009, $24 million in 2010 and $29 million for the six months ended June 30, 2007. The pro forma estimated decrease in net periodic pension and other post-retirement benefit cost for 2006 was assumed to be the estimated 2007 decrease as the impacts on net periodic pension and other post retirement benefit costs were remeasured at the July 1, 2007 merger date. The estimated decrease in net periodic pension and other post-retirement benefit costs is primarily attributable to the elimination of amortization amounts for outstanding balances of transition obligations, prior service costs and net actuarial gains or losses as of the transaction date which, in absence of the merger, would have been reflected in future years as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
 
 
continuing operations of The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial and the impact of pro forma purchase accounting adjustments.
Note 6 -- Merger and integration expense
In connection with the merger, The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial have developed plans for post-merger integration of their operations. Over the next several months, the specific details of these plans will be refined. The Bank of New York Mellon is currently in the process of assessing the personnel, benefit plans, premises, equipment, computer systems and service contracts to determine where we may take advantage of redundancies or where it will be beneficial or necessary to convert to one system.
Certain decisions arising from these assessments may involve involuntary termination of employees, vacating leased premises, canceling contracts with certain service providers and selling or otherwise disposing of certain premises, furniture or equipment. To the extent these decisions relate to Mellon Financial employees, assets or contracts, the costs associated with such decisions as permitted will be recorded as purchase accounting adjustments, which have the effect of increasing the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill. It is expected that all such costs will be identified and recorded within one year of completion of the merger and all such actions required to effect these decisions would be taken within one year after finalization of these plans. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet includes a preliminary estimate of such liabilities of $76 million. See Notes 2, 3 and 5 for additional disclosures.
To the extent these decisions relate to The Bank of New York employees, assets or contracts, these exit and disposal costs would be recorded in accordance with FASB Statement Nos. 146 and 112 in the results of operations of The Bank of New York Mellon in the period incurred.
The Bank of New York Mellon also expects to incur merger-related expenses in the process of combining the operations of the two companies. These merger-related expenses may include system conversion
 
 
costs, employee retention arrangements and costs of incremental communications to customers and others. It is expected that the exit and disposal costs along with the merger-related costs will be incurred over a three-year period after completion of the merger. These expenses are not included in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Income Statement because these costs will be recorded in the combined results of operations as they are incurred after completion of the transaction and are not indicative of what the historical results of The Bank of New York Mellon would
have been had The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial actually been combined during the periods presented.
Note 7 -- Dividends
The Bank of New York Mellon declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 per share on July 10, 2007, payable on Aug. 3, 2007 to shareholders of record on July 25, 2007.
 
 
Note 8 -- Reclassifications to The Bank of New York Income Statement for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006
 
 
 
Reclassification adjustments to conform The Bank of New York categories with The Bank of New York Mellon Income Statement presentation:
 
Note 9 -- Reclassifications to Mellon Financial Income Statement for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006
 
 
 
Reclassification adjustments to conform Mellon Financial categories with The Bank of New York Mellon Income Statement presentation:
 


