FILE:BK/BK-8K-20070702084747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On July 1, 2007 (the "Effective Date"), each of Mellon Financial Corporation ("Mellon") and The Bank of New York Company, Inc. ("BNY") merged with and into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Company"), with the Company as the surviving corporation in each case (collectively, the "Merger") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 3, 2006, as amended and restated on February 23, 2007, and as further amended and restated on March 30, 2007 (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon completion of the Merger, each outstanding share of Mellon common stock was converted into the right to receive one share of Company common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Company Common Stock") and each outstanding share of BNY common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.9434 shares of Company Common Stock. The description of the Merger Agreement contained herein does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Merger is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.01.
The issuance of Company Common Stock in the Merger was registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-140863) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and declared effective on April 17, 2007. The joint proxy statement/prospectus of Mellon and BNY (the "Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus") included in the Registration Statement contains additional information about the Merger and is incorporated by reference herein.
The Company Common Stock is deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of Rule 12g-3 under the Exchange Act. The Company Common Stock has been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "BK." The description of the Company Common Stock set forth under the caption "Description of Newco Capital Stock" in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
(a) In the Merger, by operation of law, all prior debts, liabilities and duties of Mellon and BNY attach to the Company and may be enforced against it to the same extent as if those debts, liabilities and duties had been incurred or contracted by it. For information concerning these debts, liabilities and duties of Mellon and BNY, see generally Mellon and BNY's Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, Mellon and BNY's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, and the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by Mellon and BNY subsequent to December 31, 2006. Also, in connection with the Merger, the Company expressly assumed, as of the Effective Date, an aggregate principal amount of approximately $13.1 billion
1
of indebtedness, which consists primarily of debentures, notes and other evidence of indebtedness previously issued by Mellon and BNY and indebtedness previously guaranteed by Mellon.
The Company assumed BNY's obligations by entering into the following supplemental indentures:
(i) Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among BNY, as issuer, the Company, as successor issuer and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (f/k/a Bankers Trust Company) ("Deutsche"), as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of BNY under the Indenture, dated as of July 18, 1991, between BNY and Deutsche (the "BNY Senior Indenture"). In connection with the assumption of the obligations under the BNY Senior Indenture, the Company also agreed to assume senior unsecured notes issued pursuant to the BNY Senior Indenture in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $5.6 billion, comprised of the following series:
 
 
(ii) Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among BNY, as issuer, the Company, as successor issuer and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank"), as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of BNY under the Indenture, dated as of October 1, 1993, between BNY and M&T Bank (successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association ("JPMT Co.")) (the "BNY Senior Subordinated Indenture"). In connection with the assumption of the obligations under the BNY Senior Subordinated Indenture, the Company also agreed to assume senior subordinated unsecured notes issued pursuant to the BNY Senior Subordinated Indenture in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.4 billion, comprised of the following series:
 
 
(iii) Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among BNY, as issuer, the Company, as successor issuer and M&T Bank, as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of BNY under the Indenture, dated as of December 25, 1996, between BNY and M&T Bank (successor to JPMT Co.) (the "BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture"). In connection with the assumption of the obligations under the BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture, the Company also agreed to assume the junior subordinated debentures issued pursuant to the Second BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture in the aggregate principal amount of $850 million, comprised of the following series:
 
The notes are held by Delaware statutory trusts (the "BNY Trusts") as follows: BNY Capital I holds the Series B Notes; BNY Capital IV holds the Series E Notes and BNY Capital V holds the Series F Notes. The notes held by each trust represent the sole assets of such trust. Each BNY Trust previously issued trust preferred securities and the Company has assumed BNY's guarantees of the trust preferred securities.
The foregoing description of the BNY Senior Indenture, the BNY Senior Subordinated Indenture and the BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture are qualified in their entirety by the complete terms and conditions of such indentures, which are incorporated by reference into Exhibits 4.7, 4.8 and 4.10, respectively, of BNY's Form S-3 Registration Statement, filed on June 5, 2006.
(iv) First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among BNY, as issuer, the Company, as successor issuer and M&T Bank, as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of BNY under the Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1996, between BNY and M&T Bank (successor to JPMT Co. (the "Second BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture"). In connection with the assumption of the obligations under the Second BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture, the Company also agreed to assume the 7.78% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures, Series A (the "Series A Notes"), issued pursuant to the Second BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture in the aggregate principal amount of $300,000,000. The Second BNY Subordinated Indenture contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants and events of default that are customary for similar agreements. The Series A Notes are held by BNY Institutional Capital Trust A ("Capital A Trust"), a Delaware statutory trust. The Series A Notes are the sole assets of Capital A Trust. Capital A Trust previously issued trust preferred securities and the Company has assumed BNY's guarantees of the trust preferred securities.
The Company assumed Mellon's obligations by entering into the following supplemental indentures:
(i) Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among Mellon Funding Corporation ("Funding"), as issuer, Mellon, as guarantor, the Company, as successor guarantor and M&T Bank, as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of Mellon, pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of May 2, 1988, among Funding, Mellon and M&T Bank (successor to The Bank of New York (as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 29, 1990 and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 12, 2000, the "Mellon Senior Indenture"), to unconditionally guarantee the due and punctual payment of the principal of, interest on, and any premium or sinking fund payments due on, the senior unsecured notes (the "Mellon Senior Notes") issued by Funding pursuant to the Mellon Senior Indenture. As of the Effective Date, approximately $800 million of aggregate principal amount of Mellon Senior Notes was outstanding, comprised of the following series:
 
 
The foregoing description of the Mellon Senior Indenture is qualified in its entirety by the complete terms and conditions of such indenture and the supplemental indentures, which are incorporated by reference into Exhibits 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 of Mellon's Form S-3 Registration Statement, filed on July 21, 2006.
(ii) First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among Funding, as issuer, Mellon, as guarantor, the Company, as successor guarantor and M&T Bank, as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of Mellon, pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of August 25, 1995, among Funding, Mellon and M&T Bank (successor to The Bank of New York (the "Mellon Senior Subordinated Indenture"), to unconditionally guarantee the due and punctual payment of the principal of, interest on, and any premium or sinking fund payments due on, the senior subordinated unsecured notes (the "Mellon Senior Subordinated Notes") issued by Funding pursuant to the Mellon Senior Subordinated Indenture. As of the Effective Date, $600 million of aggregate principal amount of Mellon Senior Subordinated Notes was outstanding, comprised of the following series:
 
The foregoing description of the Mellon Senior Subordinated Indenture is qualified in its entirety by the complete terms and conditions of such indenture, which are incorporated by reference into Exhibit 4.3 of Mellon's Form S-3 Registration Statement, filed on August 25, 1995.
(iii) Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among Funding, as issuer, Mellon, as guarantor, the Company, as successor guarantor and Union Bank of California, National Association ("UBOC") (successor to JPMT Co.), as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of Mellon, pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of June 12, 2000, among Funding, Mellon and UBOC (as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 30, 2001 and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2004, the "UBOC Senior Subordinated Indenture"), to unconditionally guarantee the due and punctual payment of the principal of, interest on, and any premium or sinking fund payments due on, the senior subordinated unsecured notes (the "UBOC Senior Subordinated Notes") issued by Funding pursuant to the UBOC Senior Subordinated Indenture. As of the Effective Date, $950 million of aggregate principal amount of UBOC Senior Subordinated Notes were outstanding, comprised of the following series:
 
The foregoing description of the Mellon Senior Indenture is qualified in its entirety by the complete terms and conditions of such indenture and the supplemental indentures, which are incorporated by reference into Exhibits 4.6, 4.7 and 4.8 of Mellon's Form S-3 Registration Statement, filed on July 21, 2006.
(iv) Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2007, among Mellon, as issuer, the Company, as successor issuer, The Bank of New York, as Trustee, U.S. Bank National Association, as Series C Trustee, and M&T Bank, as Series L Trustee, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, whereby the Company agreed to assume the obligations of Mellon under the Indenture, dated as of December 3, 1996, between Mellon and The Bank of New York (successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, successor to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association) (as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 19, 2006, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 19, 2007, the "Mellon Junior Subordinated Indenture"). In connection with the assumption of the obligations under the Mellon Junior Subordinated Indenture, the Company also agreed to assume the junior subordinated debentures issued pursuant to the Second BNY Junior Subordinated Indenture in the aggregate principal amount of $901 million, comprised of the following series:
 
 
The notes are held by Delaware statutory trusts (the "Mellon Trusts") as follows: Mellon Capital III holds the Series C Notes and Mellon Capital IV holds the Series L Notes. The notes held by each trust represent the sole assets of such trust. Each Mellon Trust previously issued trust preferred securities and the Company has assumed Mellon's guarantees of the trust preferred securities. The foregoing description of the Mellon Junior Subordinated Indenture is qualified in its entirety by the complete terms and conditions of such indenture and the supplemental indentures, which are incorporated by reference into Exhibits 4.9 and 4.10 of Mellon Form S-3 Registration Statement, filed on July 21, 2006 and Exhibit 2 to Mellon's Form 8-A, filed on June 19, 2006.
Item 4.01 Changes in Registrant's Certifying Accountant
(a) On the Effective Date, the Audit and Examining Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") appointed KPMG LLP as the Company's registered public accounting firm to audit the Company's 2007 financial statements.
Item 5.01 Changes in Control of Registrant
(a) Upon the completion of the Merger on July 1, 2007, a change of control of the Company occurred. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Mellon common stock was converted into the right to receive one share of Company Common Stock and each outstanding share of BNY common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.9434 shares of Company Common Stock. The two shares of Company Common Stock previously held by BNY and Mellon were cancelled. As of July 1, 2007, the former shareholders of BNY and Mellon owned all of the issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock. The Merger is described in greater detail under Item 2.01 above.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b) Donald R. Monks, who has been a member of the Board since the Company's incorporation, tendered his letter of resignation from the Board on June 29, 2007. The resignation of Mr. Monks became effective upon the election of eighteen new members to the Board, as described in paragraph (d) below.
(c) On July 1, 2007, the Board appointed Gerald L. Hassell as President of the Company. Mr. Hassell has served as President of BNY and its principal subsidiary, The Bank of New York (the "Bank"), since September 1998. Mr. Hassell had previously served as Executive Vice President of the Bank from June 1990 to December 1994, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Banking Officer of the Bank from December 1994 to September 1998, and Senior Executive Vice President of BNY from August 1998 to September 1998. Mr. Hassell also has served on the Boards of Directors of BNY and Private Export Funding Corporation. Mr. Hassell is 55 years old. As previously disclosed in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, Mr. Hassell has received a special option grant in respect of 500,000 shares of BNY common stock in connection with the Merger. The Company also has assumed a transition agreement that Mr. Hassell entered into with BNY in connection with the Merger, which provides Mr. Hassell with severance protections during the first three years following completion of the Merger substantially similar to the severance protections contained in the change-in-control agreements that Mellon had with its senior officers before the signing of the Merger Agreement, as well as special termination rights that apply after the end of the initial three-year transition period. The terms of Mr. Hassell's special option grant and transition agreement are described more fully in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and BNY's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 29, 2007, the terms of which are incorporated herein.
Also on July 1, the Board appointed Michael K. Hughey as the Company's Controller. Mr. Hughey has served as Senior Vice President and Controller at Mellon and Mellon Bank, N.A. ("Mellon Bank") since 2004. Previously, he was Director of Taxes for Mellon Bank from 1985 to 2004. Mr. Hughey is 55 years old.
Robert P. Kelly has served as the Company's Chief Executive Officer since he was appointed to that position by the Board on February 22, 2007. Since February 2006, Mr. Kelly has been Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mellon and Mellon Bank and Chairman of the Executive Committee of Mellon's Board of Directors. From 2000 to 2006, Mr. Kelly was Chief Financial Officer of Wachovia Corporation. He previously had spent 19 years with Toronto-Dominion Bank, where he served as Vice Chairman and head of the retail and commercial bank. Mr. Kelly is 53 years old. As previously disclosed in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, on February 24, 2007 the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of Mellon's Board of Directors granted to Mr. Kelly an award of 32,630 restricted stock units, the vesting of which is conditioned on (1) the completion of the Merger, (2) the satisfactory progress of the integration of Mellon
 
and BNY (as determined by the Integration Committee of the Board); and (3) Mr. Kelly's continued service through the vesting dates with the Company. The terms of Mr. Kelly's restricted stock units are described more fully in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
Bruce W. Van Saun has served as the Company's Chief Financial Officer since he was appointed to that position by the Board on February 22, 2007. Mr. Van Saun previously served as Vice Chairman of BNY and the Bank and leader of the Bank's market-related business. Mr. Van Saun joined BNY as Chief Financial Officer in 1997, a position he held through August 2006. Prior to joining BNY, Mr. Van Saun had been Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Bank North America from 1994 to 1997, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer at Wasserstein Perella Group, Inc. from 1990 to 1994 and had held leadership positions at several other financial services firms, including as Senior Vice President & Controller, and Senior Vice President for international business development, at Kidder Peabody & Company, Inc. Mr. Van Saun is 50 years old. The Company has assumed a transition agreement that Mr. Van Saun entered into with BNY in connection with the Merger, which provides Mr. Van Saun with severance protections during the first three years following completion of the Merger substantially similar to the severance protections contained in the change-in-control agreements that Mellon had with its senior officers before the signing of the Merger Agreement, as well as special termination rights that apply during the 30 days immediately following the second anniversary of the Merger on July 1, 2009. The terms of Mr. Van Saun's transition agreement are described more fully in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and BNY's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 29, 2007, the terms of which are incorporated herein.
(d) On June 29, 2007, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Board expanded the number of directors to eighteen, to be elected by the stockholders of the Company for a term to expire at the first Annual Stockholders Meeting, which is due to be held on March 10, 2008. On June 29, 2007, BNY and Mellon, as the sole stockholders of the Company at that time, elected eighteen members to the Board, effective at the Effective Date. Of these eighteen individuals, the Board of Directors of BNY had designated ten persons (the "Continuing BNY Directors"), including eight independent directors, plus Thomas A. Renyi, the Chief Executive Officer of BNY immediately prior to the Merger, and Gerald L. Hassell, the President of BNY immediately prior to the Merger. The Board of Directors of Mellon had designated eight persons (the "Continuing Mellon Directors"), including six independent directors, plus Robert P. Kelly, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mellon immediately prior to the Merger, and Steven G. Elliott, the Senior Vice Chairman of Mellon immediately prior to the Merger. The names of the newly elected directors and information about the Board Committee(s) on which each will serve are listed below.
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
(a) In connection with the Merger, on June 29, 2007, the Board and BNY and Mellon, as the stockholders of the Company at that time, approved and adopted the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the "Charter"), which restates, integrates and amends the provisions of the Company's original Certificate of Incorporation that was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on February 9, 2007. The Charter became effective immediately prior to the completion of the Merger. In addition to certain technical amendments to the original Certificate of Incorporation, the Charter (i) authorizes the Company to issue 3,600,000,000 shares of capital stock, consisting of 3,500,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 100,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, in each case with a par value of $0.01 per share, (ii) provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding voting power of the Company is required to modify, amend or repeal Article Five of the Company's By-Laws (the "By-Laws"), which contains certain corporate governance provisions, during the first 36 months following completion of the Merger and (iii) contains provisions regarding indemnification of officers and directors of the Company. This description of these provisions and of the remainder of the Charter is qualified in its entirety by reference to the information set forth under the captions "Proposal No. 2: Supermajority Voting Provision in Newco's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation," "Proposal No. 3: Provision in Newco's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation Providing for 3,600,000,000 Shares of Capital Stock Authorized for Issuance" and "Comparison of Shareholders' Rights" in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and to the Charter itself, which is included as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Charter as adopted is in the form attached as an exhibit to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
Also on June 29, 2007, the Board adopted the By-Laws in substantially the form in which they had been attached as an exhibit to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus. As adopted, the By-Laws contain certain technical changes with respect to uncertificated shares and the number of directors on certain Board Committees, and they clarify that directors may be removed by the vote of stockholders representing a majority of the outstanding voting power of the Company, in accordance with Delaware law.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial statements of business acquired
The audited financial statements required by this item are incorporated by reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, filed on February 23, 2007, and Bank of New York's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, filed on February 23, 2007, respectively, which are included as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The unaudited financial statements required by this item are incorporated by reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Mellon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007, filed on May 4, 2007, and Bank of New York's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007, filed on May 9, 2007, respectively, which are included as Exhibits 99.4 and 99.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(b) Pro forma financial information
The pro forma financial information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information of BNY and Mellon for the three months ended March 31, 2007 included as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed by BNY and Mellon on May 11, 2007 and May 10, 2007, respectively, and is included as Exhibit 99.6 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER dated December 3, 2006, as amended and restated as of February 23, 2007, as further amended and restated as of March 30, 2007 (this "Agreement"), is between MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation ("Mellon"), THE BANK OF NEW YORK COMPANY, INC., a New York corporation ("BNY"), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("Newco").
A. . Mellon and BNY have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 3, 2006 (the "Original Agreement"). On February 22, 2007, Newco became a party to the Original Agreement through the execution and delivery of a Supplement to Agreement and Plan of Merger between Newco, Mellon and BNY. On February 23, 2007, Mellon, BNY and Newco amended and restated the Original Agreement in its entirety. In accordance with Section 8.5 thereof, Mellon, BNY and Newco wish to further amend the Original Agreement (as amended and restated) and to restate the Original Agreement (as previously amended and restated) in its entirety.
Original Agreement and First Amended and Restated Agreement
B. . The Boards of Directors of Mellon and BNY have determined that the transactions described herein are consistent with, and will further, their respective business strategies and goals, and are in the best interests of Mellon and BNY, respectively, and their respective shareholders.
Approvals
C. . This Agreement provides for a strategic business combination through the merger of Mellon with and into a newly-formed Subsidiary of BNY and Mellon to be named "The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation" and organized under Delaware law with Newco as the surviving corporation, followed immediately thereafter by the merger of BNY with and into Newco with Newco as the surviving corporation.
The Merger
D. . It is the intention of the Parties that (i) the First Step Merger shall qualify for all tax purposes as a reincorporation of Mellon in Delaware and for federal income Tax purposes as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a)(1)(A) and 368(a)(1)(F) of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) the Second Step Merger shall qualify for federal income Tax purposes as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and (iii) this Agreement shall constitute a "plan of reorganization" for purposes of Sections 354 and 361 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Intention of the Parties
E. . Concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, (i) as a condition and inducement to BNY's willingness to enter into this Agreement and the BNY Stock Option Agreement referred to below, BNY and Mellon are entering into a Stock Option Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, in the form of Exhibit 1-A (the "Mellon Stock Option Agreement") pursuant to which Mellon is granting to BNY an option to purchase shares of Mellon Common Stock and (ii) as a condition and inducement to Mellon's willingness to enter into this Agreement and the Mellon Stock Option Agreement referred to below, BNY
Reciprocal Stock Options
and Mellon are entering into a Stock Option Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, in the form of Exhibit 1-B (the "BNY Stock Option Agreement") pursuant to which BNY is granting to Mellon an option to purchase shares of BNY Common Stock.
F. . Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 8.1 of this Agreement. All references in this Agreement to the "transactions contemplated hereby" shall include the execution, delivery and performance of the Stock Option Agreements.
Defined Terms
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above and the mutual warranties, representations, covenants, and agreements set forth herein, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Parties agree as follows:
1.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, at the First Effective Time, Mellon shall be merged with and into Newco in accordance with the provisions of the PBCL and the DGCL (the "First Step Merger"). Newco shall be the surviving corporation in the First Step Merger and shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. Upon consummation of the First Step Merger, the separate corporate existence of Mellon shall cease.
First Step Merger
1.2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, on or before the Closing Date, the Parties will cause articles of merger to be filed with the Department of State of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the "Pennsylvania Department of State") as provided in Section 1927 of the PBCL and a certificate of merger to be filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Secretary of State") as provided in Section 252 of the DGCL to effect the First Step Merger. The First Step Merger shall take effect when such articles and certificate of merger are filed, or at such other time as may be agreed by the Parties and specified therein (the "First Effective Time"). Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the duly authorized officers of each Party, the Parties shall cause the First Effective Time to occur on the second business day following the date on which satisfaction or waiver of the last of the conditions set forth in Article 6 has occurred (other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the fulfillment or waiver of those conditions), or such other date mutually agreed upon in writing by the Parties.
First Effective Time
1.3. . At the First Effective Time, in each case subject to Sections 1.3(c) and 1.5, by virtue of the First Step Merger and without any action on the part of the Parties, Newco or the holder of any of the following securities:
Conversion of Mellon Common Stock
(a) Each share of Mellon Common Stock that is Outstanding immediately prior to the First Effective Time (other than shares of Mellon Common Stock held by Mellon (in each case other than (i) shares held in trust, managed, custodial, nominee or similar accounts and shares held by mutual funds or other pooled investment vehicles for
 
which Mellon or any of its Subsidiaries acts as investment advisor or in a similar capacity (collectively, "Trust Account Shares") or (ii) shares held as a result of debts previously contracted)) shall be converted into the right to receive the number of shares of Newco Common Stock equal to the Mellon Exchange Ratio.
(b) All shares of Mellon Common Stock converted pursuant to this Section 1.3 shall no longer be Outstanding and shall automatically be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist as of the First Effective Time, and each certificate previously representing any such shares of Mellon Common Stock (the "Old Mellon Certificates") shall cease to have any rights except it shall thereafter represent the right to receive with respect to each underlying share of Mellon Common Stock (i) a certificate representing the number of whole shares of Newco Common Stock into which the shares of Mellon Common Stock represented by such Old Mellon Certificate have been converted pursuant to this Section 1.3, and (ii) any dividends or distributions which the holder thereof has the right to receive pursuant to Section 3.1(a).
(c) If, following the date of this Agreement and prior to the First Effective Time, the Outstanding shares of BNY Common Stock or Mellon Common Stock shall have, except as provided herein, been increased, decreased, changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or securities as a result of a reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, or other similar change in capitalization, then an appropriate and proportionate adjustment shall be made to the Mellon Exchange Ratio.
1.4. . At and after the First Effective Time, each share of Newco Common Stock held by Mellon immediately prior to the First Effective Time shall be cancelled and retired and shall resume the status of authorized and unissued shares of Newco Common Stock, and no shares of Newco Common Stock or other securities of Newco shall be issued in respect thereof.
Cancellation of Newco Common Stock
1.5. . Each of the shares of Mellon Common Stock held by Mellon (in each case other than Trust Account Shares or shares held as a result of debts previously contracted) shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist at the First Effective Time and no consideration shall be issued in exchange therefor.
Cancellation of Shares Held by Mellon
1.6. .
Mellon Stock Options and Other Equity-Based Awards
(a) Each option to purchase shares of Mellon Common Stock (a "Mellon Stock Option") granted under an equity compensation plan of Mellon (a "Mellon Stock Plan"), whether vested or unvested, that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the First Effective Time shall cease, at the First Effective Time, to represent a right to acquire shares of Mellon Common Stock and shall be converted at the First Effective Time, without any action on the part of any holder of any Mellon Stock Option, into an option to purchase shares of Newco Common Stock (a "Newco Stock Option") on the same terms and conditions, including any reload feature (but taking into account any changes thereto, including any acceleration thereof, provided for in the relevant Mellon Stock Plan, or in the related award document by reason of the transactions contemplated hereby) as were applicable under such Mellon Stock Option prior to the First
 
Effective Time. The number of shares of Newco Common Stock subject to each such Newco Stock Option shall be equal to the number of shares of Mellon Common Stock subject to each such Mellon Stock Option multiplied by the Mellon Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Newco Common Stock, and such Newco Stock Option shall have an exercise price per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the per share exercise price specified in such Mellon Stock Option divided by the Mellon Exchange Ratio; provided that, in the case of any Mellon Stock Option to which Section 421 of the Internal Revenue Code applies as of the First Effective Time (after taking into account the effect of any accelerated vesting thereof, if applicable) by reason of its qualification under Section 422 or Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, the exercise price, the number of shares of Newco Common Stock subject to such option and the terms and conditions of exercise of such option shall be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Internal Revenue Code; and provided further, that in any event, the conversion of each Mellon Stock Option shall be effected in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
(b) At the First Effective Time, each Right consisting of, based on or relating to shares of Mellon Common Stock granted under a Mellon Stock Plan, other than Mellon Stock Options (each, a "Mellon Stock-Based Award"), whether vested or unvested, contingent or accrued, which is outstanding immediately prior to the First Effective Time shall cease, at the First Effective Time, to represent a Right with respect to shares of Mellon Common Stock and shall be converted without any action on the part of any holder of a Right, at the First Effective Time, into a Right consisting of, based on or relating to shares of Newco Common Stock (a "Newco Stock-Based Award"), on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under the Mellon Stock-Based Awards, including any reload feature (but taking into account any changes thereto, including any acceleration thereof, provided for in the relevant Mellon Stock Plan or in the related award document by reason of the transactions contemplated hereby), as were applicable under such Mellon Stock-Based Award prior to the First Effective Time; provided that in any event, the conversion of each Mellon Stock-Based Award shall be effected in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The number of shares of Newco Common Stock subject to each such Newco Stock-Based Award shall be equal to the number of shares of Mellon Common Stock subject to the Mellon Stock-Based Award multiplied by the Mellon Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Newco Common Stock and, if applicable, such Newco Stock-Based Award shall have an exercise price per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the per share exercise price specified in the Mellon Stock-Based Award divided by the Mellon Exchange Ratio. Any dividend equivalents credited to the account of each holder of a Mellon Stock-Based Award as of the First Effective Time shall remain credited to such holder's account immediately following the First Effective Time, subject to adjustment in accordance with the foregoing.
(c) As soon as practicable after the First Effective Time, Newco shall deliver to the holders of Mellon Stock Options and Mellon Stock-Based Awards any required notices setting forth such holders' rights pursuant to the relevant Mellon Stock Plans and award documents and stating that such Mellon Stock Options and Mellon Stock-Based Awards have been assumed by Newco and shall continue in effect on the same terms and conditions (subject to the adjustments required by this Section 1.6 after giving effect to the Merger and the terms of the relevant Mellon Stock Plans).
 
(d) Following the First Effective Time, Newco may maintain the Mellon Stock Plans for purposes of granting future awards to individuals who were employees or directors of Mellon at the First Effective Time. If so, the provisions of the Mellon Stock Plans, including the respective terms of such plans, will be unchanged, except that all Rights issued by Newco pursuant to the Mellon Stock Plans following the First Effective Time shall be Rights in respect of Newco Common Stock, and the number of shares of Newco Common Stock available for future issuance pursuant to each Mellon Stock Plan following the First Effective Time (the "Available Mellon Stock Plan Shares") shall be equal to the number of shares of Mellon Common Stock so available immediately prior to the First Effective Time, multiplied by the Mellon Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Newco Common Stock.
(e) Prior to the First Effective Time, Mellon shall take all necessary action for the adjustment of Mellon Stock Options and Mellon Stock-Based Awards under this Section 1.6. Newco shall reserve for future issuance in respect thereof a number of shares of Newco Common Stock at least equal to the number of shares of Newco Common Stock that will be subject to Newco Stock Options and Newco Stock-Based Awards as a result of the actions contemplated by this Section 1.6, plus the number of Available Mellon Stock Plan Shares in the event that Newco maintains the Mellon Stock Plans as contemplated by this Section 1.6. As soon as practicable following the Effective Time, Newco shall file a registration statement on Form S-8 or S-3, as the case dictates (or any successor form, or if Form S-8 or S-3 is not available, other appropriate forms), with respect to the shares of Newco Common Stock subject to such Newco Stock Options and Newco Stock-Based Awards (and the Available Mellon Stock Plan Shares, as the case dictates) and shall maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement or registration statements (and maintain the current status of the prospectus or prospectuses contained therein) for so long as such Newco Stock Options and Newco Stock-Based Awards remain outstanding.
(f) Mellon shall take such action as is necessary to provide that as of no later than three business days prior to the Closing Date no further shares of Mellon Common Stock will be purchased under the Mellon Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan (the "Mellon DRIP"); provided, that such cessation of further purchases following the Closing Date shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Merger. Immediately prior to and effective as of the First Effective Time and subject to the consummation of the Merger, Mellon shall terminate the Mellon DRIP. Mellon shall take such action as is necessary to cause suspension of the Mellon Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Mellon ESPP") for the purchase period during which the Closing Date is scheduled to occur.
1.7. . Prior to the Effective Time, Newco will be duly organized by BNY and Mellon under Delaware Law as a direct subsidiary of BNY and Mellon. The Organizational Documents of Newco in effect at the First Effective Time shall be as set forth in Exhibits 2-A and 2-B, until thereafter amended in accordance with applicable Law and Newco's Organizational Documents. Prior to the Effective Time, the Board of Directors of Newco shall consist of one BNY officer designated by BNY and one Mellon officer designated by Mellon, and at and following the Effective Time, the Board of Directors of Newco shall be constituted as provided in Section 5.19 below. At or prior to the Effective Time, the Parties will take such actions as may be required to ensure that: (i) Newco has the requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business;
Organization of Newco
 
(ii) Newco is duly qualified or licensed to do business and (to the extent applicable) in good standing in the States and territories of the United States and foreign jurisdictions where the character of its assets or the nature of the conduct of its business requires it to be so qualified or licensed; and (iii) Newco will have engaged in no business and incurred no liabilities or obligations other than as necessary to consummate the Merger. The authorized capital stock of Newco shall be as agreed by the Parties, of which, as of the First Effective Time, two shares of Newco Common Stock will be Outstanding, one of which shares will be held by BNY and one of which shares will be held by Mellon. The authorized capital stock of Newco immediately following consummation of the First Step Merger (and prior to the Effective Time) will be as set forth in the form of Newco Certificate of Incorporation. No change in such capitalization will occur prior to the Effective Time except as provided in or contemplated by this Agreement. At the Effective Time, no capital stock of Newco (and no Rights to acquire any such capital stock) will be Outstanding, except as contemplated by this Agreement. The shares of Newco Common Stock to be issued in the Merger, when so issued in accordance with this Agreement, will have been duly authorized and validly issued and will be fully paid and nonassessable and not subject to any preemptive rights. The Parties agree to cause Newco to comply with all of Newco's agreements, covenants and obligations under this Agreement and to promptly effect the Newco Shareholder Approval.
2.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, at the Effective Time, BNY shall be merged with and into Newco in accordance with the provisions of the NYBCL and the DGCL (the "Second Step Merger" and, together with the First Step Merger, the "Merger"). Newco shall be the surviving corporation in the Second Step Merger and shall continue to be governed by the Laws of the State of Delaware. Upon consummation of the Second Step Merger, the separate corporate existence of BNY shall cease.
Second Step Merger
2.2. . The closings of the First Step Merger and the Second Step Merger (the "Closing") shall take place sequentially (with the Second Step Merger occurring immediately after the First Step Merger), on the same day when the First Effective Time and the Effective Time (as defined in Section 2.3) are to occur (the "Closing Date"), unless another time is agreed to in writing by the Parties. The Parties shall coordinate filing to ensure the timing of the foregoing. The Closing shall be held at the offices of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, 425 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, unless another place is agreed to in writing by the Parties.
Time and Place of Closing
2.3. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, on or before the Closing Date, the Parties will cause a certificate of merger to be filed with the Department of State of the State of New York (the "New York Department of State") as provided in Section 907 of the NYBCL and a certificate of merger to be filed with the Delaware Secretary of State as provided in Section 252 of the DGCL to effect the Second Step Merger. The Second Step Merger shall take effect when such certificates of merger are filed, or at such other time as may be agreed by the Parties and specified therein (the "Effective Time").
Effective Time
 
2.4. . At the Effective Time, in each case subject to Section 2.5, by virtue of the Second Step Merger and without any action on the part of the Parties, Newco or the holder of any of the following securities:
Conversion of BNY Common Stock
(a) Each share of BNY Common Stock that is Outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than shares of BNY Common Stock held by either BNY or Newco (in each case other than Trust Account Shares or shares held as a result of debts previously contracted)) shall be converted into the right to receive the number of shares of Newco Common Stock equal to the BNY Exchange Ratio.
(b) All shares of BNY Common Stock converted pursuant to this Section 2.4 shall no longer be Outstanding and shall automatically be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist as of the Effective Time, and each certificate previously representing any such shares of BNY Common Stock (the "Old BNY Certificates" and together with the Old Mellon Certificates, the "Old Certificates") shall cease to have any rights except it shall thereafter represent the right to receive with respect to each underlying share of BNY Common Stock (i) a certificate representing the number of whole shares of Newco Common Stock into which the shares of BNY Common Stock represented by such Old BNY Certificate have been converted pursuant to this Section 2.4, (ii) in accordance with Section 2.4(c), cash in lieu of fractional shares of Newco Common Stock represented by such Old BNY Certificate which have been converted pursuant to this Section 2.4, and (iii) any dividends or distributions which the holder thereof has the right to receive pursuant to Section 3.1(a).
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each holder of shares of BNY Common Stock exchanged pursuant to the Second Step Merger who would otherwise have been entitled to receive a fraction of a share of Newco Common Stock (after taking into account all Old BNY Certificates delivered by such holder) shall receive, in lieu thereof, cash (without interest and rounded to the nearest cent) in an amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying (i) such fractional part of a share of Newco Common Stock by (ii) the closing sale price of Mellon Common Stock on the NYSE Composite Transaction Tape on the trading day immediately preceding the Closing Date as reported by The Wall Street Journal or if not reported therein, in another authoritative source.
(d) If, following the date of this Agreement and prior to the Effective Time, the Outstanding shares of BNY Common Stock or Mellon Common Stock shall have, except as provided for herein, been increased, decreased, changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or securities as a result of a reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, or other similar change in capitalization, then an appropriate and proportionate adjustment shall be made to the BNY Exchange Ratio.
2.5. .
Effects on Common Stock
(a) At and after the Effective Time, each share of Newco Common Stock Outstanding immediately prior to the Closing Date shall remain an Outstanding share of
 
common stock of the Surviving Corporation and shall not be affected by the Second Step Merger; provided that any shares of Newco Common Stock held by BNY (other than any Trust Account Shares or shares held as a result of debts previously contracted) prior to the Effective Time shall be cancelled and retired and shall resume the status of authorized and unissued shares of Newco Common stock, and no shares of Newco Common Stock or other securities of Newco shall be issued in respect thereof.
(b) Each of the shares of BNY Common Stock held by either BNY or Newco (in each case other than Trust Account Shares or shares held as a result of debts previously contracted) shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist at the Effective Time and no consideration shall be issued in exchange therefor.
2.6. .
BNY Stock Options and Other Equity-Based Awards
(a) Each option to purchase shares of BNY Common Stock (a "BNY Stock Option") granted under an equity compensation plan of BNY (a "BNY Stock Plan"), whether vested or unvested, that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the Effective Time shall cease, at the Effective Time, to represent a right to acquire shares of BNY Common Stock and shall be converted at the Effective Time, without any action on the part of any holder of any BNY Stock Option, into a Newco Stock Option on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under such BNY Stock Option prior to the Effective Time. The number of shares of Newco Common Stock subject to each such Newco Stock Option shall be equal to the number of shares of BNY Common Stock subject to each such BNY Stock Option multiplied by the BNY Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Newco Common Stock, and such BNY Stock Option shall have an exercise price per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the per share exercise price specified in such BNY Stock Option divided by the BNY Exchange Ratio; provided that, in the case of any BNY Stock Option to which Section 421 of the Internal Revenue Code applies as of the Effective Time (after taking into account the effect of any accelerated vesting thereof, if applicable) by reason of its qualification under Section 422 or Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, the exercise price, the number of shares of Newco Common Stock subject to such option and the terms and conditions of exercise of such option shall be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Internal Revenue Code; and provided, further, that in any event, the conversion of each BNY Stock Option shall be effected in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
(b) At the Effective Time, each Right consisting of, based on or relating to shares of BNY Common Stock granted under a BNY Stock Plan, other than BNY Stock Options (each, a "BNY Stock-Based Award"), whether vested or unvested, contingent or accrued, which is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall cease, at the Effective Time, to represent a Right with respect to shares of BNY Common Stock and shall be converted without any action on the part of any holder of a Right, at the Effective Time, into a Newco Stock-Based Award, on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under the BNY Stock-Based Awards prior to the Effective Time. The number of shares of Newco Common Stock subject to each such Newco Stock-Based Award shall be equal to the number of shares of BNY Common Stock subject to the BNY Stock-Based Award multiplied by the BNY Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Newco Common Stock and, if applicable, such Newco
 
Stock-Based Award shall have an exercise price per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the per share exercise price specified in the BNY Stock Based Award divided by the BNY Exchange Ratio; provided that in any event, the conversion of each BNY Stock-Based Award shall be effected in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Any dividend equivalents credited to the account of each holder of a BNY Stock-Based Award as of the Effective Time shall remain credited to such holder's account immediately following the Effective Time, subject to adjustment in accordance with the foregoing.
(c) As soon as practicable after the Effective Time, Newco shall deliver to the holders of BNY Stock Options and BNY Stock-Based Awards any required notices setting forth such holders' rights pursuant to the relevant BNY Stock Plans and award documents and stating that such BNY Stock Options and BNY Stock-Based Awards have been assumed by Newco and shall continue in effect on the same terms and conditions (subject to the adjustments required by this Section 2.6 after giving effect to the Merger and the terms of the relevant BNY Stock Plans).
(d) Following the Effective Time, Newco may maintain the BNY Stock Plans for purposes of granting future awards to individuals who were employees or directors of BNY at the Effective Time. If so, the provisions of the BNY Stock Plans, including the respective terms of such plans, will be unchanged, except that all Rights issued by Newco pursuant to the BNY Stock Plans following the Effective Time shall be Rights in respect of Newco Common Stock, and the number of shares of Newco Common Stock available for future issuance pursuant to each BNY Stock Plan following the Effective Time (the "Available BNY Stock Plan Shares") shall be equal to the number of shares of BNY Common Stock so available immediately prior to the Effective Time, multiplied by the BNY Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Newco Common Stock.
(e) Prior to the Effective Time, BNY shall take all necessary action and make all necessary arrangements for the adjustment of BNY Stock Options and BNY Stock-Based Awards under this Section 2.6. Newco shall reserve for future issuance a number of shares of Newco Common Stock at least equal to the number of shares of Newco Common Stock that will be subject to Newco Stock Options and Newco Stock-Based Awards as a result of the actions contemplated by this Section 2.6, plus the number of Available BNY Stock Plan Shares in the event that Newco maintains the BNY Stock Plans as contemplated by this Section 2.6. As soon as practicable following the Effective Time, Newco shall file a registration statement on Form S-8 or S-3, as the case dictates (or any successor form, or if Form S-8 or S-3 is not available, other appropriate forms), with respect to the shares of Newco Common Stock subject to such Newco Stock Options and Newco Stock-Based Awards (and the Available BNY Stock Plan Shares, as the case dictates) and shall maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement or registration statements (and maintain the current status of the prospectus or prospectuses contained therein) for so long as such Newco Stock Options and Newco Stock-Based Awards remain outstanding.
(f) BNY shall take such action as is necessary to provide that as of no later than three business days prior to the Closing Date no further shares of BNY Common Stock will be purchased under the BNY Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase and Sale Plan (the "BNY DRIP"); provided, that such cessation of further purchases following the Closing Date
 
shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Merger. Immediately prior to and effective as of the Effective Time and subject to the consummation of the Merger, BNY shall terminate the BNY DRIP. BNY shall take such action as is necessary to cause suspension of the BNY Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "BNY ESPP") for the purchase period during which the Closing Date is scheduled to occur.
3.1. .
Exchange Procedures
(a) At or prior to the First Effective Time, Newco shall deposit, or shall cause to be deposited, with the Exchange Agent, for the benefit of the holders of Old Certificates, for exchange in accordance with Article 1 and Article 2 and this Article 3, certificates or evidence of shares in book entry form representing Newco Common Stock (collectively, "New Certificates") (together with any dividends or distributions with respect thereto and any cash to be paid hereunder in lieu of fractional shares of Newco Common Stock (without any interest thereon), the "Exchange Fund") to be paid pursuant to Article 1 and Article 2 and this Article 3 in exchange for Outstanding shares of Mellon Common Stock and BNY Common Stock.
(b) As promptly as practicable after the Effective Time, Newco shall send or cause to be sent to each former holder of record of shares of Mellon Common Stock and BNY Common Stock immediately prior to the First Effective Time or the Effective Time, as applicable (each, a "Holder"), transmittal materials for use in exchanging such Holder's Old Certificates for the consideration set forth in Article 1 and Article 2 (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to the certificates theretofore representing such shares of Mellon Common Stock and BNY Common Stock shall pass, only upon proper delivery of such certificates to the Exchange Agent, and which shall be in such form and have such other provisions as Mellon and BNY may reasonably specify). Newco shall cause the New Certificates for shares of Newco Common Stock into which shares of a Holder's Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock, as the case may be, are converted at the First Effective Time or the Effective Time, if applicable, or dividends or distributions which such Person shall be entitled to receive and any fractional share interests (in the case of BNY Holders only), to be delivered to such Person upon delivery to the Exchange Agent of Old Certificates representing such shares of Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock, as the case may be, together with the transmittal materials, duly executed and completed in accordance with the instructions thereto. No interest will accrue or be paid on any such cash to be paid pursuant to Article 1 and Article 2 and this Article 3 upon such delivery. If any New Certificate is to be issued or any cash payment is to be made in a name other than that in which the Old Certificate surrendered in exchange therefor is registered, it shall be a condition of such exchange that the Person requesting such exchange shall pay any transfer or other Taxes required by reason of the issuance of such New Certificate or the making of such cash payment in a name other than that of the registered Holder of the Old Certificate surrendered, or shall establish to the satisfaction of Newco and the Exchange Agent that any such Taxes have been paid or are not applicable. Any Person whom the Parties reasonably believe to be an "affiliate" of Mellon or BNY for purposes of Rule 145 of the 1933 Act shall not be entitled to receive any New Certificate or payment pursuant to Article 1 or Article 2 or this Article 3 until such Person shall have duly executed and delivered an appropriate agreement as described in Section 5.16.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the Exchange Agent, Newco, any of the Parties or any of their respective Subsidiaries shall be liable to any former Holder of Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock for any amount properly delivered to a public official pursuant to applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar Laws.
(d) If any Old Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the Person claiming such Old Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by Newco or the Exchange Agent, the posting by such Person of a bond in such reasonable amount as Newco or the Exchange Agent may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to such Old Certificate, Newco or the Exchange Agent shall, in exchange for the shares of Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock represented by such lost, stolen or destroyed Old Certificate, issue or cause to be issued a New Certificate and pay or cause to be paid the amounts, if any, deliverable in respect to the shares of Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock, as the case may be, formerly represented by such Old Certificate pursuant to this Agreement.
(e) Any portion of the Exchange Fund that remains unclaimed by the Holders of Mellon and BNY for six months after the Effective Time shall be returned to Newco (together with any dividends or earnings in respect thereof). Any Holders of Mellon or BNY who have not theretofore complied with this Article 3 shall thereafter be entitled to look only to Newco, and only as a general creditor thereof, for payment of the consideration deliverable in respect of each share of Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock such Holder holds as determined pursuant to this Agreement, in each case, without any interest thereon.
(f) Newco and the Exchange Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement to any Holder of shares of BNY Common Stock or shares of Mellon Common Stock such amounts as it is required to deduct and withhold with respect to the making of such payment under the Internal Revenue Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any provision of state, local or foreign tax Law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld by Newco or the Exchange Agent, such withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the Holder of the shares of BNY Common Stock or shares of Mellon Common Stock in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made by Newco or the Exchange Agent.
3.2. . At the First Effective Time, in the case of Mellon, and the Effective Time, in the case of BNY, the stock transfer books of such Party shall be closed and no transfer by any Holder shall thereafter be made or recognized. At the First Effective Time or Effective Time, as the case may be, Old Certificates presented to Mellon or BNY for transfer shall be cancelled and exchanged for the consideration provided for in Sections 1.3 and 2.4, as the case may be. Until surrendered for exchange in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.1, each Old Certificate (other than shares to be cancelled pursuant to Sections 1.5 or 2.5(b)) shall from and after the First Effective Time or the Effective Time, as the case may be, represent for all purposes only the right to receive the consideration provided in Sections 1.3 and 2.4, as the case may be, and any dividends or any other distributions with a record date prior to the First
Rights of Holders
 
Effective Time or Effective Time, as the case may be, which have been declared or made by Mellon in respect of such shares of Mellon Common Stock or BNY in respect of BNY Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and which remain unpaid at the Effective Time. To the extent permitted by Law, former holders of record of shares of Mellon Common Stock (a "Mellon Holder") shall be entitled to vote after the First Effective Time at any meeting of Newco shareholders the number of whole shares of Newco Common Stock into which their respective shares of Mellon Common Stock are converted, regardless of whether such Mellon Holders have exchanged their certificates representing Mellon Common Stock for New Certificates representing Newco Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, but beginning 30 days after the First Effective Time no such Mellon Holder shall be entitled to vote on any matter until such Mellon Holder surrenders such Old Certificate for exchange as provided in Section 3.1. To the extent permitted by Law, former holders of record of shares of BNY Common Stock (a "BNY Holder") shall be entitled to vote after the Effective Time at any meeting of Newco shareholders the number of whole shares of Newco Common Stock into which their respective shares of BNY Common Stock are converted, regardless of whether such BNY Holders have exchanged their certificates representing BNY Common Stock for New Certificates representing Newco Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, but beginning 30 days after the Effective Time no such BNY Holder shall be entitled to vote on any matter until such BNY Holder surrenders such Old Certificate for exchange as provided in Section 3.1. Whenever a dividend or other distribution is declared by Newco on Newco Common Stock, the record date for which is at or after the Effective Time, the declaration shall include dividends or other distributions on all shares of Newco Common Stock issuable pursuant to this Agreement, but no dividend or other distribution payable to the holders of record of Newco Common Stock as of any time subsequent to the Effective Time shall be delivered to the Holder of an Old Certificate until such Holder surrenders such Old Certificate for exchange as provided in Section 3.1. However, upon surrender of the Old Certificate, both the New Certificate, together with all such undelivered dividends or other distributions (without interest) and any undelivered cash payments to be paid for fractional share interests (without interest), shall be delivered and paid with respect to each share represented by such New Certificate.
4.1. . Prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, each Party has delivered to the other Party a letter (its "Disclosure Letter") setting forth, among other things, items the disclosure of which is necessary or appropriate either in response to an express disclosure requirement contained in a provision hereof or as an exception to one or more of such Party's representations or warranties contained in Section 4.3 or to one or more of its covenants contained in Article 5; provided, that (i) no such item is required to be set forth in a Party's Disclosure Letter as an exception to any representation or warranty of such Party if its absence would not result in the related representation or warranty being deemed untrue or incorrect under the standard established by Section 4.2, and (ii) the mere inclusion of an item in a Party's Disclosure Letter as an exception to a representation or warranty shall not be deemed an admission by that Party that such item represents a material exception or fact, event or circumstance or that such item is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect with
Disclosure Letters
 
respect to such Party. Any disclosures made with respect to a subsection of Section 4.3 shall be deemed to qualify (a) any subsections of Section 4.3 specifically referenced or cross-referenced and (b) other subsections of Section 4.3 to the extent it is reasonably apparent (notwithstanding the absence of a specific cross reference) from a reading of the disclosure that such disclosure (i) applies to such other subsections and (ii) contains sufficient detail to enable a reasonable person to recognize the relevance of such disclosure to such other subsections.
4.2. .
Standards
(a) No representation or warranty of any Party hereto or Newco contained in Section 4.3 (other than the representations and warranties in (i) Sections 4.3(c)(i) and (ii), which shall be true and correct in all material respects with respect to it, and (ii) Section 4.3(e) which shall be true and correct in all respects with respect to it) shall be deemed untrue or incorrect, and no Party hereto or Newco shall be deemed to have breached a representation or warranty, as a consequence of the existence or absence of any fact, circumstance or event unless such fact, circumstance or event, individually or taken together with all other facts, circumstances or events inconsistent with any representation or warranty contained in Section 4.3, has had or is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on such Party or Newco.
(b) The term "Material Adverse Effect," as used with respect to a Party or Newco, means an effect which (i) is materially adverse to the business, properties, financial condition or results of operations of such Party and its Subsidiaries, or Newco (including, from and after the Effective Time, its Subsidiaries), taken as a whole, or (ii) materially impairs the ability of such Party or Newco to consummate the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby on a timely basis; provided that, in determining whether a Material Adverse Effect has occurred with respect to such Party or Newco, there shall be excluded (with respect to each of clause (A), (B) and (C), to the extent that the effect of a change on it is not materially different than the effect on comparable banking organizations) any effect to the extent attributable to or resulting from (A) any changes in Laws, regulations or interpretations of Laws or regulations generally affecting the financial services industries in which the Parties operate, (B) any change in GAAP or regulatory accounting requirements generally affecting the financial services industries in which the Parties operate, (C) events, conditions or trends in economic, business or financial conditions generally affecting the financial services industries in which the Parties operate, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and price levels or trading volumes in the United States or foreign securities markets, (D) changes in national or international political or social conditions including the engagement by the United States in hostilities, whether or not pursuant to the declaration of a national emergency or war, or the occurrence of any military or terrorist attack upon or within the United States, or any of its territories, possessions or diplomatic or consular offices or upon any military installation, equipment or personnel of the United States, (E) the effects of the actions expressly required by this Agreement or that are taken with the prior written consent of the other Party and Newco in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, and (F) the announcement of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby; and provided, further, that in no event shall a change in the trading prices of a Party's common stock, by itself, constitute a Material Adverse Effect.
 
4.3. . Subject to and giving effect to Sections 4.1 and 4.2 and except as set forth in the relevant Disclosure Letter, BNY hereby represents and warrants to Mellon, and Mellon hereby represents and warrants to BNY, that:
Representations and Warranties of the Parties
(a) . It, and each of its Subsidiaries, is duly organized, validly existing, and (to the extent applicable) in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized. It, and each of its Subsidiaries, has the requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease, and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted. It, and each of its Subsidiaries, is duly qualified or licensed to do business and (to the extent applicable) in good standing in the States and territories of the United States and foreign jurisdictions where the character of its assets or the nature or conduct of its business requires it to be so qualified or licensed. It has made available to the other Party a complete and correct copy of its Organizational Documents, each as amended to the date hereof and as in full force and effect as of the date hereof. A true and complete list of its direct and indirect Subsidiaries that would constitute Significant Subsidiaries of such Party within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the SEC as of the date hereof is set forth in Section 4.3(a) of its Disclosure Letter.
Organization, Standing, and Power; Subsidiaries
(b) .
Authority; No Breach of Agreement
(i) It has, and Newco will have, the corporate power and authority necessary to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement and the Stock Option Agreements, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, including the Merger, by it, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action (including valid authorization and unanimous adoption of this Agreement by its duly constituted Board of Directors), subject only to the receipt of (A) in the case of Mellon, the adoption of the plan of merger contained in this Agreement by the holders of a majority of the votes cast by all holders of shares of Mellon Common Stock and the approval of the related proposals concerning Newco's certificate of incorporation contained in the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus by the holders of a majority of the votes cast by all holders of shares of Mellon Common Stock (the "Mellon Shareholder Approval"), (B) in the case of BNY, the adoption of the plan of merger contained in this Agreement by the holders of two-thirds of the Outstanding shares of BNY Common Stock and the approval of the related proposals concerning Newco's certificate of incorporation contained in the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus by the holders of a majority of the votes cast by all holders of shares of BNY Common Stock (the "BNY Shareholder Approval") and (C) in the case of Newco, the authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Board of Directors of Newco and the adoption of this Agreement by Mellon and BNY, as the sole shareholders of Newco (the "Newco Shareholder Approval"). Subject to the Mellon Shareholder Approval in the case of Mellon, the BNY Shareholder Approval in the case of BNY, and the Newco Shareholder Approval in the case of Newco and assuming due authorization,
 
execution, and delivery of this Agreement and the Stock Option Agreements by the other Party and this Agreement by Newco, each of this Agreement and the Stock Option Agreements represent a legal, valid, and binding obligation of it, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms (except in all cases as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, conservatorship, moratorium, or similar Laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except that the availability of the equitable remedy of specific performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court before which any proceeding may be brought).
(ii) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Stock Option Agreements by it, nor the consummation by it of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor compliance by it with any of the provisions hereof, will (A) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of any provision of its Organizational Documents, (B) constitute or result in a Default under, or require any Consent pursuant to, or result in the creation or acceleration of any Lien (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) on any material asset of it or its Subsidiaries under, any Contract or Permit of it or its Subsidiaries, or any change in its rights or obligations under any Contract, or (C) subject to receipt of the Regulatory Consents and the expiration of any waiting period required by Law, violate any Law, Order or governmental license applicable to it or its Subsidiaries or any of their respective material assets.
(iii) Other than (A) the filing with the SEC of (1) the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and (2) such reports under Sections 13(a), 13(d), 13(g) and 16(a) of the 1934 Act as may be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and the obtaining from the SEC of such Consents as may be required in connection therewith, (B) the filing of the articles of merger with the Pennsylvania Department of State and the certificate of merger with the Delaware Secretary of State with respect to the First Step Merger and the filing of the certificate of merger with the New York Department of State and the certificate of merger with the Delaware Secretary of State with respect to the Second Step Merger, (C) the filing of applications and notices with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the BHC Act and the Federal Reserve Act and approval of same, (D) such applications, filings and Consents as may be required under the banking laws of any state, and approval thereof, (E) Consents, filings or exemptions required under Securities Laws relating to the regulation of broker-dealers, investment companies and investment advisors and federal commodities laws relating to the regulation of futures commission merchants and the rules and regulations of the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission thereunder and of any applicable industry self-regulatory organization and the rules of the NYSE, or which are required under consumer finance, mortgage banking and other similar laws of the various states in which it or any of its Subsidiaries is licensed or regulated, (F) notices or filings under the HSR Act, (G) such filings and Consents as may be required pursuant to applicable antitrust or competition laws of any foreign Governmental Entity (the "Foreign
 
Antitrust Approvals"), (H) such other filings, Consents and exemptions as may be required under foreign banking and similar laws in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, (I) such filings, notifications and Consents as are required under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 and the rules and regulations of the Small Business Administration thereunder, and (J) Consent of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Delaware or other state insurance regulators (clauses (C) through (J) collectively, the "Regulatory Consents"), no notice to, application or filing with, or Consent of, any Governmental Authority is necessary in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement and the Stock Option Agreements and the consummation by it of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby.
(c) .
Common Stock
(i) In the case of Mellon only, the authorized capital stock of Mellon consists of 800,000,000 shares of Mellon Common Stock and 50,000,000 shares of Mellon Preferred Stock, of which, as of November 30, 2006, (A) 415,284,706 shares of Mellon Common Stock were Outstanding, and (B) no shares of Mellon Preferred Stock were Outstanding. As of the date of this Agreement, no more than 32,000,000 shares of Mellon Common Stock were subject to Mellon Stock Options granted under Mellon Stock Plans. As of the date of this Agreement, there were no more than 302,000 shares of Mellon Common Stock subject to outstanding Rights under the Mellon Stock Plans. Except for (1) Permitted Issuances, (2) as set forth above in this Section 4.3(c)(i), or (3) as set forth in Section 4.3(c)(i) of Mellon's Disclosure Letter, there are no shares of Mellon Capital Stock or other equity securities of Mellon outstanding and no outstanding Rights relating to the Mellon Capital Stock, and no Person has any Contract or any right or privilege (whether pre-emptive or contractual) capable of becoming a Contract or Right for the purchase, subscription or issuance of any securities of Mellon or any Subsidiary of Mellon. All of the Outstanding shares of Mellon Capital Stock are duly and validly authorized, Outstanding and are fully paid and nonassessable. None of the Outstanding shares of Mellon Capital Stock has been issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of the current or past shareholders of Mellon. As of the date of this Agreement, Mellon has no contractual obligation to redeem, repurchase, or otherwise acquire, or to register with the SEC, any shares of Mellon Common Stock or any capital stock of its Subsidiaries.
(ii) In the case of BNY only, the authorized capital stock of BNY consists of 2,400,000,000 shares of BNY Common Stock, 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, and 5,000,000 shares of Class A Preferred Stock, of which, as of November 30, 2006, (A) 751,867,066 shares of BNY Common Stock were Outstanding, (B) 3,000 shares of Class A Preferred Stock were Outstanding, and (C) no shares of BNY Preferred Stock were Outstanding. As of the date of this Agreement, no more than 70,000,000 shares of BNY Common Stock were subject to BNY Stock Options granted under the BNY Stock Plans. As of the date of this Agreement, there were no more than 9,000,000 shares of BNY Common Stock
 
subject to outstanding Rights under the BNY Stock Plans. Except for (1) Permitted Issuances, (2) as set forth above in this Section 4.3(c)(ii), or (3) as set forth in Section 4.3(c)(ii) of BNY's Disclosure Letter, there are no shares of BNY Capital Stock or other equity securities of BNY outstanding and no outstanding Rights relating to the BNY Capital Stock, and no Person has any Contract or any right or privilege (whether pre-emptive or contractual) capable of becoming a Contract or Right for the purchase, subscription or issuance of any securities of BNY or any Subsidiary of BNY. All of the Outstanding shares of BNY Capital Stock are duly and validly authorized and Outstanding and are fully paid and nonassessable. None of the Outstanding shares of BNY Capital Stock has been issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of the current or past shareholders of BNY. As of the date of this Agreement, BNY has no contractual obligation to redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire, or to register with the SEC, any shares of BNY Capital Stock or any capital stock of its Subsidiaries.
(iii) No bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness having the right to vote on any matters on which its shareholders may Vote ("Voting Debt") are issued or outstanding.
(iv) All the outstanding shares of capital stock of each of its Subsidiaries owned by it or a Subsidiary of it have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and (except, with respect to bank Subsidiaries, as provided under 12 U.S.C. 55 or any comparable provision of applicable state or foreign Law) nonassessable, and are owned by it or a Subsidiary of it free and clear of all Liens or Rights.
(d) .
SEC Filings; Financial Statements; Undisclosed Liabilities
(i) Each Party has filed all SEC Documents required to be filed by it with the SEC since December 31, 2002 (collectively, the "SEC Reports"). Its SEC Reports, including the Financial Statements, exhibits and schedules contained therein, (A) at the time filed, complied (and any SEC Reports filed after the date of this Agreement will comply) in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Laws, and (B) at the time they were filed (or if amended or superseded by another SEC Report filed prior to the date of this Agreement, then on the date of filing of such amended or superseding SEC Report), did not (and any SEC Reports filed after the date of this Agreement will not) contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated in such SEC Reports or necessary in order to make the statements made in such SEC Reports, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(ii) Each of its Financial Statements contained in its SEC Reports (including any SEC Reports filed after the date of this Agreement) fairly presented (or, in the case of SEC Reports filed after the date of this Agreement, will fairly present) the consolidated financial position of it and its Subsidiaries as at the respective dates and the consolidated results of its operations and cash
 
flows for the periods indicated, in each case in accordance with GAAP consistently applied during the periods indicated, except in each case as may be noted therein, and subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and as permitted by Form 10-Q in the case of unaudited Financial Statements.
(iii) The records, systems, controls, data and information of it and its Subsidiaries are recorded, stored, maintained and operated under means (including any electronic, mechanical or photographic process, whether computerized or not) that are under the exclusive ownership and direct control of it or its Subsidiaries or accountants (including all means of access thereto and therefrom), except for any non-exclusive ownership and non-direct control that would not reasonably be expected to have a materially adverse effect on the system of internal accounting controls described in the following sentence. As and to the extent described in the SEC Reports filed with the SEC prior to the date hereof, it and its Subsidiaries have devised and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. It (A) has designed disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to it, including its consolidated Subsidiaries, is made known to its management by others within those entities, and (B) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation prior to the date hereof, to its auditors and the audit committee of its Board of Directors (1) any significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect in any material respect its ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and has identified for its auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls and (2) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in its internal controls. It has made available to the other Party a summary of any such disclosure made by management to its auditors and audit committee since January 1, 2004.
(iv) Except for (A) those liabilities that are fully reflected or reserved for in its consolidated financial statements included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, as filed prior to the date of this Agreement and (B) liabilities incurred since September 30, 2006 in the ordinary course of business, such Party and its Subsidiaries do not have, and since September 30, 2006, such Party and its Subsidiaries have not incurred (except as permitted by Section 5.2), any liabilities or obligations of any nature whatsoever (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise and whether or not required to be reflected in its financial statements in accordance with GAAP).
(e) . Since September 30, 2006, except as disclosed in its SEC Reports filed prior to the date of this Agreement, (i) it and its Subsidiaries have conducted their respective businesses only in the ordinary course of such businesses, (ii) there have been no events, changes, developments or occurrences which have had, or are reasonably likely to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on it and (iii) it and its Subsidiaries have not taken action that, if it had been taken after the date of this Agreement, would have required the prior written Consent of the other Party under Section 5.1.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
 
(f) . All Tax Returns required to be filed by or on behalf of it or any of its Subsidiaries have been timely filed or requests for extensions have been timely filed and any such extension has been granted and has not expired, and all such filed returns are complete and accurate. Except as disclosed in its SEC Reports filed prior to the date of this Agreement, all Taxes attributable to it or any of its Subsidiaries that are or were due or payable (without regard to whether such Taxes have been assessed) have been paid in full or have been adequately provided for on its consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of earnings or income in accordance with GAAP. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to a Tax sharing, indemnification or similar agreement or any agreement pursuant to which it or any of its Subsidiaries has any obligation to any Person (other than it or one of its Subsidiaries) with respect to Taxes. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has been a party to any distribution occurring during the last five years in which the parties to such distribution treated the distribution as one to which Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code applied.
Tax Matters
(g) . Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries or any Affiliates thereof has taken or agreed to take any action, and it has no knowledge of any fact or circumstance, that is reasonably likely to (i) prevent the Merger from qualifying as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (ii) materially impede or materially delay receipt of any Regulatory Consents. To its knowledge, as of the date hereof, there exists no fact, circumstance, or reason that would cause any Regulatory Consents not to be received in a timely manner.
Certain Actions
(h) . Except as described in the Disclosure Letter: (i) no Hazardous Material is contained in or has been used at or released from its Facilities other than in compliance with, and as would not reasonably be expected to result in liability under, any Environmental Laws; (ii) all Hazardous Materials used by it or stored on its Properties have been disposed of in accordance with, and as would not reasonably be expected to result in liability under, any Environmental Laws; (iii) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries is potentially liable as a responsible party under any Environmental Law, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended ("CERCLA"), or comparable state statute, arising out of events occurring prior to the Effective Time; (iv) there have not been in the past, and are not now, any Hazardous Materials that have been released on or under or are migrating to or from its Facilities or any of its Properties; (v) there have not been in the past, and are not now, any underground tanks or physical structures or vessels holding Hazardous Materials at, on or under any of its Properties including treatment or storage tanks, sumps, lagoons, basins, or water, gas or oil wells; (vi) there are no polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCBs") deposited, stored, disposed of or located on any of its Properties or Facilities or any equipment on any of its Properties containing PCBs at levels in excess of levels permitted by Law; (vii) it and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates are not subject to any consent orders, decrees, notices of violation, injunctions, directives or orders from any Governmental Authority or any indemnity or other agreement with any third party relating to obligations, costs or liabilities arising under any Environmental Law; (viii) its
Environmental Matters
 
Facilities and its and its Subsidiaries' activities and operations have at all times complied with all Environmental Laws; (ix) it and its Subsidiaries have received no notice of any noncompliance with, or liability under, any Environmental Laws regarding its Facilities or any of its Properties or its past or present operations; and (x) no claims, notices, administrative actions, information requests or suits are pending or, to its knowledge, threatened relating to any actual or potential violation, liability or obligation by it or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to any Environmental Laws.
(i) .
Compliance with Permits, Laws and Orders
(i) It and each of its Subsidiaries has in effect all Permits and has made all filings, applications, and registrations with Governmental Authorities that are required for it to own, lease, or operate its material assets and to carry on its business as now conducted and there has occurred no Default under any Permit applicable to its business or employees conducting its business.
(ii) Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries is in Default under any Laws or Orders applicable to it, its business or employees conducting its business, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and other applicable federal, state and foreign anti-money laundering and sanctions Laws. Each of its Subsidiaries that is an insured depository institution has a Community Reinvestment Act rating of "satisfactory" or better.
(iii) Since January 1, 2003, neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any notification or communication from any Governmental Authority, (A) asserting that it or any of its Subsidiaries is in Default under any Permits, Laws or Orders, (B) threatening to revoke any Permits, (C) requiring it or any of its Subsidiaries (x) to enter into or consent to the issuance of a cease and desist order, written agreement, consent decree, directive, commitment or memorandum of understanding, or (y) to adopt any policy, procedure or resolution of its Board of Directors or similar undertaking, which restricts the conduct of its business, or relates to its capital adequacy, its credit or reserve policies, its management, or the payment of dividends or any other policy or procedure, or (D) threatening or contemplating revocation or limitation of, or which would have the effect of revoking or limiting, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance, and neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any notice from a Governmental Authority that it is considering issuing or requiring any of the foregoing.
(iv) There (A) is no unresolved violation, criticism, or exception by any Governmental Authority with respect to any report or statement relating to any examinations or inspections of it or any of its Subsidiaries and (B) have been no formal or informal inquiries by, or disagreements or disputes with, any Governmental Authority with respect to its or any of its Subsidiaries' business, operations, policies or procedures since January 1, 2003.
 
(v) There is no Order, circumstance or condition relevant or applicable to it that would prevent, or is reasonably likely to prevent, Newco from satisfying the criteria for "financial holding company" status under the BHC Act or which would otherwise reasonably be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect on Newco after the Effective Time.
(vi) It and each of its Subsidiaries have properly administered all accounts for which it acts as a fiduciary, including accounts for which it serves as a trustee, agent, custodian, personal representative, guardian, conservator or investment advisor, in accordance with the terms of the governing documents and applicable state, federal and foreign Law. None of it, any of its Subsidiaries, or any of its or its Subsidiaries' directors, officers or employees, has committed any breach of trust or fiduciary duty with respect to any such fiduciary account, and the accountings for each such fiduciary account are true and correct and accurately reflect the assets and results of such fiduciary account.
(j) . Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries is the subject of any Litigation asserting that it or any of its Subsidiaries has committed an unfair labor practice (within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act or comparable state Law) or seeking to compel it or any of its Subsidiaries to bargain with any labor organization as to wages or conditions of employment, nor is it or any of its Subsidiaries a party to or bound by any collective bargaining agreement, Contract, or other agreement or understanding with a labor union or labor organization, nor is there any strike or other labor dispute involving it or any of its Subsidiaries pending or, to its knowledge, threatened, nor to its knowledge, is there any activity involving its or any of its Subsidiaries' employees seeking to certify a collective bargaining unit or engaging in any other organization activity. It and each of its Subsidiaries has complied in all respects with all applicable Laws relating to the employment of its employees, including applicable Laws relating to equal employment opportunity, nondiscrimination, immigration, wages, hours, benefits, data privacy, collective bargaining, the payment of social security and similar taxes, occupational safety and health, and plant closing and, to its knowledge, neither it nor its Subsidiaries is liable for the payment of any compensation, damages, taxes, fines, penalties or other amounts, however designated, for failure to comply with any of the foregoing Laws.
Labor Relations
(k) .
Employee Compensation and Benefit Plans
(i) It has disclosed in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter, and has delivered or made available, to the extent requested, to the other Party prior to the date of this Agreement correct and complete copies of, all of its Compensation and Benefit Plans, other than Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained outside of the United States primarily for the benefit of its employees working outside of the United States. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has an "obligation to contribute" (as defined in ERISA Section 4212) nor have they ever had an obligation to contribute to a "multiemployer plan" (as defined in ERISA Sections 4001(a)(3) and 3(37)(A)). Each "employee pension benefit plan," as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA, that was, within six years preceding the date of this
 
Agreement, ever maintained by it or any of its Subsidiaries and that was intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, is disclosed as such in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter.
(ii) It has delivered or made available to the other Party, to the extent requested, prior to the date of this Agreement correct and complete copies of the following documents: (A) all trust agreements or other funding arrangements for its Compensation and Benefit Plans (including insurance Contracts), and all amendments thereto (all such trust agreements and other funding arrangements are disclosed in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter), (B) with respect to any such Compensation and Benefit Plans or amendments, the most recent determination letters, and all material rulings, material opinion letters, material information letters, or material advisory opinions issued by the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Department of Labor, or the PBGC or any equivalent foreign taxing or regulatory authority after December 31, 1996, (C) annual reports or returns, audited or unaudited financial statements, actuarial valuations and reports, and summary annual reports prepared for any Compensation and Benefit Plans with respect to the most recent plan year, and (D) the most recent summary plan descriptions and any material modifications thereto.
(iii) All of its Compensation and Benefit Plans are in substantial compliance with the applicable terms of ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code, and any other applicable Laws and have been administered in accordance with their terms. Except as disclosed in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter, each of its ERISA Plans which is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code has received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service covering all Tax Law changes prior to the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 and, to its knowledge, there are no circumstances likely to result in revocation of any such favorable determination letter. Except as disclosed in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter, each trust created under any of its ERISA Plans has been determined to be exempt from Tax under Section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code or its foreign equivalent and it is not aware of any circumstance which will or could reasonably result in revocation of such exemption. To its knowledge, each Compensation and Benefit Plan providing deferred compensation or benefits subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, including applicable transitional guidance, has been substantially operated in good faith compliance with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code since January 1, 2005. Any voluntary employees' beneficiary association within the meaning of Section 501(c)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code which provides benefits under a Compensation and Benefit Plan has (i) received an opinion letter from the Internal Revenue Service recognizing its exempt status under Section 501(c)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code and (ii) filed a timely notice with the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to Section 505(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, and it is not aware of circumstances likely to result in the loss of such exempt status under Section 501(c)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code. Each Compensation and Benefit Plan subject to regulation by any foreign tax or regulatory authority complies with such applicable foreign Law. There is no pending or, to its knowledge, threatened Litigation relating to any of its ERISA Plans.
 
(iv) Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has engaged in a transaction with respect to any of its Compensation and Benefit Plans that, assuming the Taxable Period of such transaction expired as of the date of this Agreement or the Effective Time, would subject it or any of its Subsidiaries to a Tax or penalty imposed by either Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 502(i) of ERISA.
(v) Except as disclosed in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter, each of its Pension Plans had, as of the date of its most recent actuarial valuation, assets measured at fair market value at least equal to its "current liability," as that term is defined in Section 302(d)(7) of ERISA. To its knowledge, since the date of the most recent actuarial valuation, no event has occurred which would adversely change any such funded status. None of its Pension Plans nor any "single-employer plan," within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, currently maintained by it or any of its Subsidiaries, or the single-employer plan of any entity which is considered one employer with it under Section 4001 of ERISA or Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 302 of ERISA (an "ERISA Affiliate") has an "accumulated funding deficiency" (whether or not waived) within the meaning of Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 302 of ERISA. All required contributions with respect to any of its Pension Plans or any single-employer plan of any of its ERISA Affiliates have been timely made and there is no lien, nor is there expected to be a lien, under Internal Revenue Code Section 412(n) or ERISA Section 302(f) or Tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 4971. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has provided, or is required to provide, security to any of its Pension Plans or to any single-employer plan of any of its ERISA Affiliates pursuant to Section 401(a)(29) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(vi) With respect to any Compensation and Benefit Plan maintained in the United Kingdom or that is otherwise subject to the Laws thereof, to its knowledge, (A) no liability, which has not been settled in full, has been imposed on it or any Subsidiary under Section 144 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993 or Section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995; (B) all death in service benefits payable in accordance with the provisions of each such plan are fully insured (apart from money purchase benefits as defined in Section 181 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993) and it is aware of no reason why such cover may be forfeited; and (C) no employee or former employee has transferred to it or to a Subsidiary as part of a transfer of an undertaking to which the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 1981 applied.
(vii) With respect to any Compensation and Benefit Plan maintained in Canada or that is otherwise subject to the Laws thereof, to its knowledge, (A) no event has occurred respecting any Compensation and Benefit Plan which is a "registered pension plan" as defined under the Income Tax Act (Canada) which
 
would entitle any Person to cause the wind-up or termination, in whole or in part, of such Compensation and Benefit Plan; (B) there has been no withdrawal, and no application to any Governmental Authority for approval of such a withdrawal, of assets from such Compensation and Benefit Plan, and any application of surplus assets in such Compensation and Benefit Plan to offset required employer contributions thereto has been permitted by applicable Law and the terms of such Compensation and Benefit Plan and its associated funding agreement; and (C) with respect to any "registered pension plan", no transfers of assets, which required the approval of any Governmental Authority from or to such Compensation and Benefit Plan to or from another benefit plan or arrangement have occurred and there are no pending or anticipated applications to transfer assets to or from any such Compensation and Benefit Plan.
(viii) No Liability under Title IV of ERISA has been or is expected to be incurred by it or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to any defined benefit plan currently or formerly maintained by any of them or by any of its ERISA Affiliates that has not been satisfied in full (other than Liability for PBGC premiums, which have been paid when due).
(ix) Except as disclosed in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter, neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has any obligations for retiree health and retiree life benefits under any of its Compensation and Benefit Plans other than with respect to benefit coverage mandated by applicable Law. To its knowledge, it or its Subsidiaries may amend or terminate any plan not so disclosed at any time without incurring any liability thereunder other than in respect of claims incurred prior to such amendment or termination or as imposed by applicable Law.
(x) There has been no amendment to, announcement by it or any of its Subsidiaries relating to, or change in employee participation or coverage under, any Compensation and Benefit Plan which would increase the expense of maintaining such plan above the level of the expense incurred therefor for the most recent fiscal year. In the case of Mellon only, except as disclosed in Section 4.3(k) of its Disclosure Letter, none of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the shareholder approval of the transactions contemplated hereby, the termination of the employment of any of its or its Subsidiaries' employees within a specified time of the Effective Time or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (A) result in any payment (including severance, golden parachute, or otherwise), whether or not in conjunction with a termination of employment, becoming due to any director or any employee of it or any of its Subsidiaries from it or any of its Subsidiaries under any of its Compensation and Benefit Plans or otherwise, other than by operation of Law, (B) increase any benefits otherwise payable under any of its Compensation and Benefit Plans, (C) result in any acceleration of the time of payment or vesting of any such benefit or funding (through a grantor trust or otherwise) of any such payment or benefit, (D) limit or restrict the right of it to merge, amend or terminate any of the Compensation and Benefit Plans or any related trust or (E) result in payments under any Compensation and Benefit Plans which would not be deductible under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
(xi) In the case of BNY only, the transactions contemplated under this Agreement will not constitute a "change in control" as that term is defined under any of its Compensation and Benefits Plans.
(l) .
Material Contracts
(i) Except for Contracts reflected as exhibits to its SEC Reports filed prior to the date of this Agreement, as of the date of this Agreement, neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries, nor any of their respective assets, businesses, or operations, is a party to, or is bound or affected by, or receives benefits under, (A) any Contract relating to the borrowing of money by it or any of its Subsidiaries or the guarantee by it or any of its Subsidiaries of any such obligation (other than Contracts pertaining to fully-secured repurchase agreements, and trade payables, and Contracts relating to borrowings or guarantees made in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice), (B) any Contract containing covenants that limit the ability of it or any of its Subsidiaries to compete in any line of business or with any Person, or that involve any restriction of the geographic area in which, or method by which, it or any of its Subsidiaries may carry on its business (other than as may be required by Law or any Governmental Authority) or which requires referrals of business or requires it or any of its Affiliates to make available investment opportunities to any Person on a priority, equal or exclusive basis, (C) any Contract with respect to the employment of any directors or executive officers, or with any consultants that are natural Persons involving the payment of $10,000,000 or more per annum, (D) any Contract that could reasonably be expected to prohibit, delay or materially impair the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (E) any Contract that involves expenditures or receipts by it or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000 per year not entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (F) any Contract with any Governmental Authority (other than routine or customary Contracts with any self-regulatory body) or (G) any other Contract or amendment thereto that would be required to be filed as an exhibit to any SEC Report (as described in Items 601(b) of Regulation S-K under the 1933 Act) that has not been filed as an exhibit to or incorporated by reference in its SEC Reports filed prior to the date of this Agreement. With respect to each of its Contracts that are (A) reflected as an exhibit to any SEC Report, (B) would be required under Items 601(b)(4) and 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K under the 1933 Act to be filed as an exhibit to any of its SEC Reports, or (C) that is disclosed in its Disclosure Letter: (w) each such Contract is in full force and effect; (x) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries is in Default thereunder; (y) neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has repudiated or waived any material provision of any such Contract; and (z) no other party to any such Contract is, to its knowledge, in Default thereunder in any material respect.
 
(ii) All interest rate swaps, caps, floors, option agreements, futures and forward contracts, and other similar risk management arrangements, whether entered into for its own account or for the account of one or more of its Subsidiaries or their respective customers, were entered into (A) in accordance with prudent business practices and all applicable Laws and (B) with counterparties believed to be financially responsible, and each of them is enforceable against it or its Subsidiaries and, to its knowledge, the applicable counterparties thereto, in accordance with its terms (except in all cases as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, conservatorship, moratorium, or similar Laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except that the availability of the equitable remedy of specific performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court before which any proceeding may be brought), and is in full force and effect. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries, nor to its knowledge, any other party thereto, is in Default of any of its obligations under any such agreement or arrangement. Its Financial Statements disclose the value of such agreements and arrangements on a mark-to-market basis in accordance with GAAP (including but not limited to Financial Accounting Statement 133) and, since September 30, 2006, there has not been a change in such value that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in a Material Adverse Effect on it.
(m) . There is no Litigation pending or, to its knowledge, threatened against it or any of its Subsidiaries, or against any asset, interest, or right of any of them nor are there any Orders of any Governmental Authority or arbitrators outstanding against it or any of its Subsidiaries, taking into account the likelihood of the outcome, the damages or the other relief sought and other relevant factors, would be reasonably expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on it.
Legal Proceedings
(n) . Since January 1, 2003, or the date of organization if later, it and each of its Subsidiaries has filed all reports and statements, together with any amendments required to be made with respect thereto, that it was required to file with any Governmental Authority, and it and each of its Subsidiaries have paid all fees and assessments due and payable in connection therewith.
Reports
(o) .
Intellectual Property
(i) It and its Subsidiaries own, or are licensed or otherwise possess sufficient legally enforceable rights to use, all Intellectual Property (including the Technology Systems) that is used by it and its Subsidiaries in their respective businesses as currently conducted. Neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries has (A) licensed any Intellectual Property owned by it or its Subsidiaries in source code form to any Person or (B) entered into any exclusive agreements relating to Intellectual Property owned by it or its Subsidiaries.
 
(ii) It and its Subsidiaries have not infringed or otherwise violated the Intellectual Property rights of any third Person since January 1, 2003. There is no claim asserted, or to its knowledge threatened, against it and its Subsidiaries or any indemnitee thereof concerning the ownership, validity, registerability, enforceability, infringement, use or licensed right to use any Intellectual Property.
(iii) No third Person has infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated it or its Subsidiaries' Intellectual Property rights since January 1, 2003. There are no claims asserted or threatened by it or its Subsidiaries, or decided by them to be asserted or threatened, that (A) a third Person infringed or otherwise violated any of their Intellectual Property rights; or (B) a third Person's owned or claimed Intellectual Property interferes with, infringes, dilutes or otherwise harms any of their Intellectual Property rights.
(iv) It and its Subsidiaries have taken reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of all Trade Secrets that are owned, used or held by them.
(p) . It or one of its Subsidiaries (i) has good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected in its latest audited balance sheet included in the Financial Statements as being owned by it or one of its Subsidiaries or acquired after the date thereof which are material to its business on a consolidated basis (except properties sold or otherwise disposed of since the date thereof in the ordinary course of business), free and clear of all Liens, and (ii) is the lessee of all leasehold estates reflected in the latest audited financial statements included in the Financial Statements or acquired after the date thereof which are material to its business on a consolidated basis (except for leases that have expired by their terms or been legally terminated by it or one of its Subsidiaries since the date thereof) and is in possession of the properties purported to be leased thereunder, and each such lease is valid without Default thereunder by the lessee or, to its knowledge, the lessor.
Properties
(q) . It has taken all action required to be taken by it in order to exempt this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby from, and this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby are exempt from, the requirements of any "moratorium," "control share," "fair price," "affiliate transaction," "anti-greenmail," "business combination" or other antitakeover Laws of any jurisdiction, including but not limited to (i) in the case of Mellon, Sections 2538 through 2588 inclusive of the PBCL, and (ii) in the case of BNY, Section 912 of the NYBCL (collectively, "Takeover Laws"). It has taken all action required to be taken by it in order to make this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby comply with, and this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby do comply with, the requirements of any provisions of its Organizational Documents concerning "business combination," "fair price," "voting requirement," "constituency requirement" or other related provisions.
State Takeover Laws
(r) . Except for UBS Securities LLC and Lazard Frres & Co. LLC as to Mellon and Goldman Sachs & Co. as to BNY (in each case pursuant to engagement letters which have been set forth as an exhibit to their respective Disclosure
Brokers and Finders
 
Letter), neither it nor any of its officers, directors, employees, or Affiliates has employed any broker or finder or incurred any Liability for any financial advisory fees, investment bankers' fees, brokerage fees, commissions, or finders' fees in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
(s) . Prior to the execution of this Agreement, the Board of Directors of Mellon has received separate opinions of UBS Securities LLC and Lazard Frres & Co. LLC and the Board of Directors of BNY has received an opinion of Goldman Sachs & Co., each to the effect that as of the date thereof and based upon and subject to the matters set forth therein, (i) in the case of Goldman Sachs & Co., the BNY Exchange Ratio is fair, from a financial point of view, to the holders of BNY Common Stock, and (ii) in the case of UBS Securities LLC and Lazard Frres & Co. LLC, the Mellon Exchange Ratio is fair, from a financial point of view, to the holders of Mellon Common Stock. Such opinions have not been amended or rescinded as of the date of this Agreement.
Opinion of Financial Advisors
(t) . It and its Subsidiaries are insured with reputable insurers against such risks and in such amounts as its management reasonably has determined to be prudent in accordance with industry practices.
Insurance
(u) . (i) It and certain of its Subsidiaries (the "Advisory Entities") provide investment management, investment advisory and sub-advisory services (including management and advice provided to separate accounts and participation in wrap fee programs). For purposes of this Agreement, "Advisory Contract" means each contract for such services provided by an Advisory Entity; "Advisory Client" means each party to an Advisory Contract other than the applicable Advisory Entity; "Fund Client" means each Advisory Client that is registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"); and "Sponsored" means, when used with reference to any Fund Client, any such Fund Client, a majority of the officers of which are employees of it or any of its Subsidiaries, or of which it or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates holds itself out as the sponsor.
Investment Adviser Subsidiaries; Funds; Clients
(ii) Each Sponsored Fund Client and, to its knowledge, each other Fund Client and each Advisory Entity (A) has since January 1, 2003 (or such later date as it became a Sponsored Fund Client, Fund Client or Advisory Entity), operated and is currently operating in compliance with all laws, regulations, rules, judgments, orders or rulings of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its business and (B) has all Permits required for the operation of its business or ownership of its properties and assets as presently conducted. There is no Litigation pending or, to its knowledge, threatened which would reasonably be expected to lead to the revocation, amendment, failure to renew, limitation, suspension or restriction of any such Permits. Each Sponsored Fund Client has been operated in compliance with its objectives and restrictions
 
(iii) Each Advisory Entity has been since January 1, 2003 (or such later date as it became an Advisory Entity) and is in compliance with each Advisory Contract to which it is a party.
(iv) The accounts of each Advisory Client subject to ERISA have been managed since January 1, 2003 (or such later date as it became an Advisory Client) by its applicable Subsidiary in compliance with the applicable requirements of ERISA.
(v) As of the date hereof, neither it nor any of its Advisory Entities nor any "affiliated person" (as defined in the Investment Company Act) of any of them is ineligible pursuant to Section 9(a) or (b) of the Investment Company Act to serve as an investment adviser (or in any other capacity contemplated by the Investment Company Act) to a registered investment company; and no such Advisory Entity or any "person associated with an investment advisor" (as defined in the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Advisers Act")) of any of them is ineligible pursuant to Section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act to serve as an investment advisor or as a person associated with a registered investment advisor.
(v) . (i) It and its Subsidiaries required to so act have at all times acted as the fiduciary (to its knowledge, validly appointed) or agent (to its knowledge, validly appointed) under all indenture, trust, pooling and servicing, private label, paying agency, collateral or disbursing agency, securities (whether bond, note, debenture or other) registrar, transfer agency, document custody, and all other fiduciary and agency Contracts under which such Party or its Subsidiaries have been so appointed and are active as of the Closing Date, but excluding any accounts (and agreements for such accounts) that, on or prior to the Closing Date, have been fully called or matured and for which all cash has been distributed or escheated and the corporate trust agreement for such account has been terminated regardless of whether it or any of its Subsidiaries continues to have any obligations with respect thereto (collectively, "Corporate Trust Agreements").
Corporate Trust Agreements
(ii) To its knowledge, each of it and its Subsidiaries has performed all obligations (including any record keeping obligations) required to be performed by it under the Corporate Trust Agreements and is not in default thereunder.
(iii) Each of it and its Subsidiaries has to the extent required by applicable Law or by the applicable Corporate Trust Agreement, taken all action to maintain, for the benefit of the holders or other beneficiaries or obligees under the applicable Corporate Trust Agreement, all interests in collateral granted or pledged to secure obligations thereunder, and the foregoing is accurately reflected in the applicable books and records of the Corporate Trust Business.
(iv) Each of it and its Subsidiaries have (A) fulfilled all of their respective escheat obligations; and (B) not waived, amended or modified any provision of any Corporate Trust Agreement except in accordance with the provisions of such Corporate Trust Agreement and as shown in the records maintained by it and its Subsidiaries.
 
5.1. . During the period from the date of this Agreement through the Effective Time, except as set forth in its Disclosure Letter, except as expressly contemplated or permitted by this Agreement and except as Consented to in writing by the other Party (which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), each of the Parties shall, and shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries and Newco to, (a) conduct its business in the ordinary course, (b) use reasonable best efforts to maintain and preserve intact its business organization, assets, employees and relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and business associates, and (c) take no action that would reasonably be expected to adversely affect or delay the ability of either Party to obtain any Required Consents, to perform its covenants and agreements under this Agreement, or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby on a timely basis.
Conduct of Business Prior to Effective Time
5.2. . During the period from the date of this Agreement through the Effective Time, except as set forth in its Disclosure Letter and except as expressly contemplated or permitted by this Agreement or as otherwise provided in this Section 5.2, neither Party shall, and neither Party shall permit any of its Subsidiaries or Newco to, without the prior written Consent of the other Party (which Consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed):
Forbearances
(a) amend its Organizational Documents (except as provided herein), or enter into a plan of consolidation, merger, share exchange, reorganization or similar business combination (other than with respect to consolidations, mergers, share exchanges, reorganizations or similar business combinations solely among its wholly owned Subsidiaries), or a letter of intent or agreement in principle with respect thereto;
(b) except for Permitted Issuances and Permitted Repurchases and except as provided in Section 5.3, (i) adjust, split, combine or reclassify any capital stock or authorize the issuance of any securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for, shares of its capital stock, (ii) make, declare or pay any dividend, or make any other distribution on, or directly or indirectly redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire, any shares of its capital stock or any securities or obligations convertible (whether currently convertible or convertible only after the passage of time or the occurrence of certain events) into or exercisable or exchangeable for any shares of its capital stock, (iii) grant or issue any Rights, (iv) issue any additional shares of capital stock or any Voting Debt, or (v) make any change in any instrument or Contract governing the terms of any of its securities;
(c) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or pursuant to Contracts in force at the date of or permitted by this Agreement and other than by way of foreclosures or acquisitions of control in a fiduciary or similar capacity or in satisfaction of debts previously contracted in good faith, make any material investment in or acquisition of (either by purchase of stock or securities, contributions to capital, property transfers, or purchase of any property or assets) any other Person other than its wholly owned Subsidiaries as of the date of this Agreement;
 
(d) enter into any new line of business, or change its lending, investment, underwriting, risk and asset liability management and other banking and operating policies that are material to it and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, except as required by applicable Law or any regulations or policies imposed on it by any Governmental Authority, or make application for the opening, relocation or closing of any, or open, relocate or close any, branch office, loan production office or other significant office or operations facility;
(e) sell, transfer, mortgage, encumber or otherwise dispose of any part of its business or any of its properties or assets to any Person other than a wholly owned Subsidiary, or cancel, release or assign any indebtedness of any Person to any Person other than a wholly owned Subsidiary or any claims against any Person to any Person other than a Subsidiary, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or pursuant to Contracts in force as of the date of this Agreement and disclosed in Section 5.2(e) of its Disclosure Letter;
(f) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice: incur any long-term indebtedness for borrowed money (or modify any of the material terms of any such outstanding long-term indebtedness); assume, guarantee, endorse or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for the obligations of any Person; or make any loan or advance to any Person;
(g) other than in consultation with the other Party and Newco, restructure or make any material change to its investment securities portfolio, its derivatives portfolio or its interest rate exposure, through purchases, sales or otherwise, or the manner in which the portfolio is classified or reported, in any material respect;
(h) other than in the ordinary course of business, terminate, waive or knowingly fail to use reasonable best efforts to enforce, any material provision of any material Contract other than normal renewals of Contracts without materially adverse changes, additions or deletions of terms;
(i) other than as required by Compensation and Benefit Plans and Contracts as in effect at the date of this Agreement or applicable Law, (i) increase in any manner the compensation or benefits of any of its officers, employees or directors (for avoidance of doubt, all references to "directors" in this Section 5.2(i) refer to members of its Board of Directors) other than (x) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (y) the payment of incentive compensation based upon the performance of such employee and, if applicable, such employee's business, (ii) pay any pension or retirement allowance not required by any existing Compensation and Benefit Plan or Contract to any such officers, employees or directors other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (iii) become a party to, amend or commit itself to any Compensation and Benefit Plan or Contract (or any individual Contracts evidencing grants or awards thereunder) or employment agreement with or for the benefit of any
 
officer, employee or director other than with respect to employees who are not directors or executive officers and then only in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, or (iv) accelerate the vesting of, or the lapsing of restrictions with respect to, Rights pursuant to BNY Stock Plans in the case of BNY, and Rights pursuant to Mellon Stock Plans in the case of Mellon;
(j) settle any Litigation, except for any Litigation involving solely money damages in an amount that is not material to such Party and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that does not involve or create an adverse precedent for Litigation that is reasonably likely to be material to it and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole;
(k) implement or adopt any change in its financial accounting principles, practices or methods, including reserving methodologies, other than as may be required by GAAP, regulatory accounting guidelines or applicable Law;
(l) file or amend any material Tax Return except in the ordinary course of business; settle or compromise any material Tax Liability; make, change or revoke any material Tax election except to the extent consistent with past practice or as required by Law; or change any material method of Tax accounting, except as required by applicable Law;
(m) knowingly take, or knowingly omit to take, any action that is reasonably likely to result in any of the conditions to the Merger set forth in Article 6 not being satisfied on a timely basis except as may be required by applicable Law; provided, that nothing in this Section 5.2(m) shall preclude any Party from exercising its respective rights under Section 5.13;
(n) take any action that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
(o) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation or resolutions providing for or authorizing such a liquidation or dissolution, restructuring, recapitalization or reorganization; or
(p) agree to take any of the actions prohibited to it by this Section 5.2.
5.3. .
Dividends
(a) Each Party agrees that, from and after the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time, (i) Mellon may (to the extent legally and contractually permitted to do so), but shall not be obligated to, declare and pay quarterly dividends on Outstanding shares of Mellon Common Stock at a rate not to exceed $0.22 per share per quarter, with usual record and payment dates for such dividends in accordance with past practice, (ii) BNY may (to the extent legally and contractually permitted to do so), but shall not be obligated to, declare and pay dividends on Outstanding shares of BNY Series A Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms of its Organizational Documents and applicable Law, (iii) BNY may (to the extent legally and contractually permitted to do so), but shall not be obligated to, declare and pay quarterly
 
dividends on Outstanding shares of BNY Common Stock at a rate not to exceed $0.22 per share per quarter, with usual record and payment dates for such dividends in accordance with past practice, and (iv) its direct and indirect Subsidiaries may (to the extent legally and contractually permitted to do so), but shall not be obligated to, declare and pay dividends on their capital stock in cash, stock or other property to the Parties or their wholly owned Subsidiaries and to the holders of any trust preferred securities issued by Subsidiaries of the Parties.
(b) After the date of this Agreement, each Party shall coordinate with the other with respect to the declaration of any dividends in respect of BNY Common Stock and Mellon Common Stock and the record dates and payment dates relating thereto, it being the intention of the Parties that holders of Mellon Common Stock and BNY Common Stock shall not receive two dividends, or fail to receive one dividend, for any quarter with respect to their shares of Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock, as the case may be.
5.4. . As promptly as practicable, and in any event within 20 days of the date of this Agreement, BNY shall take all action necessary to effect the redemption (subject to the rights of the holders of shares of BNY Series A Preferred Stock to convert such shares into shares of BNY Common Stock) of all Outstanding shares of BNY Series A Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms of the BNY Amended and Restated Charter and the applicable provisions of the NYBCL so that such redemption shall occur no later than 50 days after the date of this Agreement.
Redemption of BNY Series A Preferred Stock
5.5. .
Reasonable Best Efforts
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each of the Parties will, and will cause Newco to, use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, in good faith, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or desirable, or advisable under applicable Laws, including using its reasonable best efforts to lift or rescind any Order adversely affecting its ability to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby on a timely basis, to cause to be satisfied the conditions in Article 6, and to permit consummation of the Merger as promptly as practicable and otherwise to enable consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and each will cooperate fully with and furnish information to, the other Party and Newco to that end; provided that nothing contained herein shall preclude any Party or Newco from exercising its rights under this Agreement.
(b) Each of the Parties agrees to execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, by or on behalf of Newco, at or prior to the Effective Time, one or more supplemental indentures and other instruments required for the due assumption of Mellon's and BNY's outstanding debt, guarantees, securities, and other agreements to the extent required by the terms of such debt, guarantees, securities or other agreements.
(c) Each of the Parties agrees to use, and to cause Newco to use, its reasonable best efforts to cause the Merger, and to take no action which would reasonably be expected to cause the Merger not, to qualify for treatment as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code for federal income Tax purposes.
 
(d) The Parties shall consult with respect to the character, amount and timing of restructuring charges to be taken by each of them in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and shall take such charges in accordance with GAAP, as such Parties mutually agree upon.
5.6. .
Shareholders' Approvals
(a) BNY shall call a meeting of its shareholders (the "BNY Shareholders' Meeting") to be held as soon as reasonably practicable for the purpose of obtaining the BNY Shareholder Approval and such other matters as the Board of Directors of BNY may direct, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such meeting to occur as soon as reasonably practicable. The Board of Directors of BNY shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the BNY Shareholder Approval, and nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to relieve BNY of its obligation to submit this Agreement to its shareholders for a vote on the adoption hereof.
(b) Mellon shall call a meeting of its shareholders (the "Mellon Shareholders' Meeting") to be held as soon as reasonably practicable for the purpose of obtaining the Mellon Shareholder Approval and such other matters as the Board of Directors of Mellon may direct, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such meeting to occur as soon as reasonably practicable. The Board of Directors of Mellon shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the Mellon Shareholder Approval, and nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to relieve Mellon of its obligation to submit this Agreement to its shareholders for a vote on the adoption hereof.
(c) BNY and Mellon shall use their reasonable best efforts to hold the BNY Shareholders' Meeting and the Mellon Shareholders' Meeting on the same day.
5.7. .
Registration Statement; Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus
(a) Each Party agrees to, and agrees to cause Newco to, cooperate with the other Party and Newco, and their Representatives, in the preparation and filing of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus. Neither the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus nor the Registration Statement shall be filed, and, prior to the termination of this Agreement, no amendment or supplement to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus or the Registration Statement shall be filed, by Newco, BNY or Mellon without the approval of the other Party (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and its counsel. The Parties shall each cause Newco to use all reasonable efforts to cause the Registration Statement to be declared effective under the 1933 Act as promptly as practicable after filing thereof and to keep the Registration Statement effective as long as necessary to consummate the Merger and the transactions contemplated thereby. The Parties agree to, and to cause Newco to, use all reasonable efforts to obtain all Permits required by the Securities Laws to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and each Party agrees to, and agrees to cause Newco to, furnish all information concerning them and the holders of their capital stock as may be reasonably requested in connection with any such action. Newco will advise the Parties, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when the Registration Statement has become effective, the issuance of any stop order, the suspension of the qualification of the Newco Common Stock issuable in connection with the Merger for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or any request by the SEC for amendment of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus or the Registration Statement.
 
(b) Each Party agrees, as to itself, its Subsidiaries and Newco, that none of the information supplied or to be supplied by it for inclusion or incorporation by reference in (i) the Registration Statement will, at the time the Registration Statement and each amendment and supplement thereto, if any, become effective under the 1933 Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and (ii) the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, at the date of mailing to shareholders and at the times of the meetings of BNY shareholders and Mellon shareholders, will contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or necessary to correct any statement in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto. Each Party further agrees that if it shall become aware prior to the Effective Time of any information furnished by it that would cause any of the statements in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus or the Registration Statement to be false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or to omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not false or misleading, to promptly inform the other Party thereof and to take the necessary steps to correct the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus or the Registration Statement.
5.8. . The Parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause the shares of Newco Common Stock to be issued in the Merger to be approved for listing on the NYSE under the current ticker symbol for BNY, subject to official notice of issuance, as promptly as practicable, and in any event before the First Effective Time.
Listing of Newco Common Stock
5.9. .
Applications and Consents; Governmental Filings
(a) The Parties shall, and shall cause Newco to, cooperate and use their reasonable best efforts in seeking all Consents of Governmental Authorities and other Persons necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby as promptly as practicable.
(b) Without limiting the foregoing, the Parties shall, and shall cause Newco to, cooperate with each other and use their reasonable best efforts to prepare as promptly as practicable all documentation and to effect all filings with respect to, and to obtain, all Regulatory Consents.
(c) Each Party will, and will cause Newco to, promptly furnish to the other Party copies of applications filed with all Governmental Authorities and copies of written communications received by such Party and Newco from any Governmental Authorities with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby. Each Party agrees that it will, and will cause Newco to, consult with the other Party with respect to the obtaining of all Regulatory Consents and other material Consents advisable to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and each Party will, and will cause Newco to, keep the other Party and Newco apprised of the status of material matters relating to completion of the transactions contemplated hereby, and will use reasonable efforts to include representatives of the other Party in any meetings or discussions with Governmental Authorities. Each Party shall have the right to review
 
in advance, and to the extent practicable each will consult with the other, in each case subject to applicable laws relating to the exchange of information, with respect to all the information relating to the other Party or Newco, and any of their respective Subsidiaries, which appears in any filing made with, or written materials submitted to, any third party or any Governmental Authority in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In exercising the foregoing right, each of the Parties hereto agrees to, and to cause Newco to, act reasonably and as promptly as practicable. All documents that the Parties or their respective Subsidiaries and Newco are responsible for filing with any Governmental Authority in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby (including to obtain Regulatory Consents) will comply as to form in all material respects with the provisions of applicable Law.
5.10. . Each Party will, and will cause Newco to, give prompt notice to the other Party and Newco (and subsequently keep the other Party and Newco informed on a current basis) upon its becoming aware of the occurrence or existence of any fact, event or circumstance that (a) is reasonably likely to result in any Material Adverse Effect on it, or (b) would cause or constitute a material breach of any of its representations, warranties, covenants, or agreements contained herein; provided, that any failure to give notice in accordance with the foregoing with respect to any breach shall not be deemed to constitute the failure of any condition set forth in Sections 6.2(b) or 6.3(b) to be satisfied, or otherwise constitute a breach of this Agreement by the Party or Newco failing to give such notice, in each case unless the underlying breach would independently result in a failure of the conditions set forth in Section 6.2(a), 6.2(b), 6.3(a) or 6.3(b), to be satisfied or give rise to such termination right.
Notification of Certain Matters
5.11. .
Investigation and Confidentiality
(a) Each Party shall, and shall cause Newco to, permit the other Party and Newco to make or cause to be made such investigation of the business and Properties of it and its Subsidiaries and of their respective financial and legal conditions as the other Party and Newco reasonably requests; provided, that such investigation shall be reasonably related to the transactions contemplated hereby and shall not interfere unnecessarily with normal operations; and provided further, that neither Party nor any of their respective Subsidiaries nor Newco shall be required to provide access to or to disclose information where such access or disclosure would jeopardize the attorney-client or other privilege with respect to such information or contravene any Law, Order, or Contract and the Parties will, and will cause Newco to, use their reasonable efforts to make appropriate substitute disclosure arrangements, to the extent practicable, in circumstances in which the restrictions of the preceding sentence apply. No investigation by a Party or Newco shall be deemed to modify, waive or otherwise affect the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of the other Party or Newco.
(b) Each Party shall, and shall cause Newco to, and shall cause its and Newco's Representatives to, maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information furnished to it by the other Party and Newco concerning its and its Subsidiaries' businesses, operations, and financial positions to the extent required by and in accordance with the Confidentiality Agreement, and shall not use such information for any purpose except in furtherance of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. If this Agreement is terminated prior to the Effective Time, each Party and Newco shall promptly return or certify the destruction of all documents and copies and extracts thereof, and all work papers containing confidential information received from the other Party and Newco.
 
(c) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall give either Party, directly or indirectly, the right to control or direct the operations of the other Party prior to the Effective Time. Prior to the Effective Time, each Party shall exercise, consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, complete control and supervision over its and its Subsidiaries' respective operations.
5.12. . Prior to the Effective Time, the Parties shall, and shall cause Newco to, consult with each other before issuing any press release or public statement or making any other public disclosure (including any broad-based employee communication that is reasonably likely to become the subject of public disclosure) materially related to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and will not issue any such press release or public statement or make any other public disclosure without the prior written consent of the other party, which will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, that nothing in this Section 5.12 shall be deemed to prohibit any Party or Newco from making any disclosure necessary in order to satisfy such Party or Newco's disclosure obligations imposed by Law or the NYSE or any other self-regulatory organization. In addition to the foregoing, except to the extent disclosed in or consistent with the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.7, no Party shall issue any press release or otherwise make any public statement or disclosure concerning the other Party or the other Party's business, financial condition or results of operations without the consent of such other Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Press Releases; Public Announcements
5.13. .
Acquisition Proposals
(a) Each Party agrees that it will not, and will cause its Subsidiaries and its and its Subsidiaries' officers, directors, Representatives and Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, (i) initiate, solicit, encourage or knowingly facilitate inquiries or proposals with respect to, (ii) engage or participate in any negotiations concerning, (iii) provide any nonpublic information or data to, or have or participate in any discussions with, any Person relating to, or (iv) approve or recommend, or propose to approve or recommend, or execute or enter into, any letter of intent, agreement in principle, merger agreement, asset purchase or share exchange agreement, option agreement or other similar agreement related to, an Acquisition Proposal; provided that, in the event either Party receives an unsolicited bona fide written Acquisition Proposal and such Party's Board of Directors concludes in good faith that there is a reasonable likelihood that such Acquisition Proposal constitutes or is reasonably likely to constitute a Superior Proposal, such Party may, and may permit its Subsidiaries and its and its Subsidiaries' Representatives to, prior to (but not after) the BNY Shareholders' Meeting or the Mellon Shareholders' Meeting, as applicable, furnish or cause to be furnished nonpublic information or data to, and participate in negotiations or discussions with, the Person making such Acquisition Proposal to the extent that the Board of Directors of such Party concludes in good faith (after receiving the advice of its outside counsel and consultation with its financial advisors) that failure to take such actions would result in a violation of its fiduciary duties under applicable Law; provided further that, prior to providing any nonpublic information or data permitted to be provided pursuant to the foregoing proviso, it shall have entered into a confidentiality agreement with such third party on terms no less favorable to it than the Confidentiality Agreement. Each Party will immediately
 
cease and cause to be terminated any activities, discussions or negotiations conducted before the date of this Agreement with any Persons other than the other Party with respect to any Acquisition Proposal. Each Party will promptly (and in all events within 24 hours) advise the other Party following receipt of any Acquisition Proposal or any inquiry which could reasonably be expected to lead to an Acquisition Proposal, and the substance thereof (including the identity of the Person making such Acquisition Proposal and the material terms thereof), will keep the other Party apprised on a current basis of any related developments, discussions and negotiations (including the terms and conditions of the Acquisition Proposal as it may be amended, revised or supplemented from time to time, and of the execution and delivery of any confidentiality agreement between such Party and the Person making such Acquisition Proposal) and will provide to the other Party on a current basis all material and information delivered or made available to the Person making such Acquisition Proposal to the extent such material and information was not previously furnished or made available to such other Party. Without limiting the foregoing, each Party shall notify the other Party, orally and in writing, within 24 hours if it enters into discussions or negotiations with another Person concerning an Acquisition Proposal or provides non-public information or data to any Person in accordance with this Section 5.13. Each of the Parties shall, and shall cause Newco to, use its reasonable best efforts to enforce (and not waive or amend any provision of) any existing confidentiality or standstill agreements to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is a party relating to an Acquisition Proposal in accordance with the terms thereof.
(b) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent a Party (or Newco) or its Board of Directors from complying with Rule 14d-9 and Rule 14e-2 under the 1934 Act with respect to an Acquisition Proposal; provided, that such Rules will in no way eliminate or modify the effect that any action pursuant to such Rules would otherwise have under this Agreement.
(c) Nothing in this Section 5.13 shall (x) permit either Party to terminate this Agreement or (y) affect any other obligation of the Parties under this Agreement, including the obligation to submit this Agreement to a vote of their respective shareholders. Neither Party shall submit to the vote of its shareholders any Acquisition Proposal other than the Merger.
5.14. . No Party will or will cause or permit Newco to, take any action that would cause the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to be subject to requirements imposed by any Takeover Law. If any Takeover Law may become, or may purport to be, applicable to the transactions contemplated hereby, each Party and the members of its Board of Directors will, and will cause Newco to, grant such approvals and take such actions as are necessary (other than any action requiring the approval of its shareholders (other than as contemplated by Section 5.6)) so that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated hereby and otherwise act to eliminate or minimize the effects of any Takeover Law on any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Takeover Laws; No Rights Triggered
5.15. . BNY and Mellon agree that, in order to most effectively compensate and retain Mellon Insiders and BNY Insiders (as defined below) in connection with the Merger, both prior to and after the Effective Time, it is desirable that Mellon Insiders and BNY Insiders not be subject to a risk of liability under Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law in connection with the conversion
Exemption from Liability Under Section 16(b)
 
of shares of Mellon Common Stock, Mellon Stock Options and Mellon Stock-Based Awards or BNY Common Stock, BNY Stock Options and BNY Stock-Based Awards into Newco Common Stock, Newco Stock Options or Newco Stock-Based Awards, as the case may be, in the Merger, and for that compensatory and retentive purpose agree to the provisions of this Section 5.15. Assuming Mellon and BNY deliver to Newco in a reasonably timely fashion prior to the Effective Time accurate information regarding those officers and directors of Mellon and BNY subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act (respectively, the "Mellon Insiders" and the "BNY Insiders"), the number of shares of Mellon Common Stock or BNY Common Stock held or to be held by each such Mellon Insider or BNY Insider expected to be exchanged for Newco Common Stock in the Merger, and the number and description of Mellon Stock Options and Mellon Stock-Based Awards or BNY Stock Options and BNY Stock-Based Awards held by each such Mellon Insider or BNY Insider and expected to be converted into Newco Stock Options or Newco Stock-Based Awards, the Board of Directors of Newco, or a committee of non-employee directors thereof (as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 16b-3(d) under the 1934 Act), shall reasonably promptly thereafter, and in any event prior to the Effective Time, adopt a resolution providing in substance that the receipt by the Mellon Insiders and BNY Insiders of Newco Common Stock in exchange for shares of Mellon Common Stock and BNY Common Stock, and of Newco Stock Options upon conversion of Mellon Stock Options or BNY Stock Options, or Newco Stock-Based Awards upon conversion of Mellon Stock-Based Awards or BNY Stock-Based Awards, in each case pursuant to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, are approved by such Board of Directors or by such committee thereof, and are intended to be exempt from Liability pursuant to Section 16(b) of the 1934 Act to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law.
5.16. . Mellon and BNY have disclosed in Section 5.16 of their Disclosure Letters each Person whom they reasonably believe may be deemed an "affiliate" of Mellon or BNY, respectively, for purposes of Rule 145 under the 1933 Act. Mellon and BNY shall use their reasonable efforts to cause each such Person to deliver to Newco, not later than the date of mailing of the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, a written agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit 3-A and 3-B, respectively.
Agreement of Affiliates
5.17. .
Employee Matters
(a) Following the Effective Time, Newco at its election shall either (i) provide generally to officers and employees of Mellon and its Subsidiaries, who at or after the Effective Time become employees of Newco or its Subsidiaries ("Mellon Continuing Employees"), employee benefits under Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Newco, on terms and conditions which are the same as for similarly situated officers and employees of BNY and its Subsidiaries, who at or after the Effective Time become employees of Newco or its Subsidiaries ("BNY Continuing Employees"), and/or (ii) maintain for the benefit of the Mellon Continuing Employees, the Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Mellon immediately prior to the First Effective Time ("Mellon Plans"); provided that Newco may amend any Mellon Plan to comply with any Law or as necessary and appropriate for other business reasons. Following the First Effective Time, Newco at its election shall either (x) provide generally to BNY Continuing Employees, employee benefits under Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Newco, on terms and conditions which are the same as for similarly situated Mellon Continuing Employees, and/or (y) maintain for the benefit of the BNY Continuing Employees, the Compensation and
 
Benefits Plans maintained by BNY immediately prior to the Effective Time ("BNY Plans"); provided that Newco may amend any BNY Plan to comply with any Law or as necessary and appropriate for other business reasons. For purposes of this Section 5.17, Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by BNY or Mellon are deemed to include Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by their respective Subsidiaries. As soon as practicable following the Effective Time, Newco shall review, evaluate and analyze the Mellon Plans and the BNY Plans with a view towards developing appropriate and effective Compensation and Benefit Plans for the benefit of employees of Newco and its Subsidiaries on a going forward basis that does not discriminate between the Mellon Continuing Employees and the BNY Continuing Employees (together, the "Continuing Employees"). Newco will honor, or cause to be honored, in accordance with their terms, all vested or accrued benefit obligations to, and contractual rights of, the Continuing Employees, including, without limitation, any benefits or rights arising as a result of the Merger (either alone or in combination with any other event).
(b) For purposes of eligibility, participation, vesting and benefit accrual (except not for purposes of benefit accrual to the extent that such credit would result in a duplication of benefits) under Newco's Compensation and Benefit Plans, service with or credited by Mellon or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their predecessors or BNY or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their predecessors shall be treated as service with Newco. To the extent permitted under applicable Law, Newco shall cause welfare Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Newco that cover the Continuing Employees and their dependents after the Effective Time to (i) waive any waiting period and restrictions and limitations for preexisting conditions or insurability (except for pre-existing conditions that were excluded, or restrictions or limitations that were applicable, under welfare Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Mellon or BNY), and (ii) cause any deductible, co-insurance, or maximum out-of-pocket payments made by the Mellon Continuing Employees or BNY Continuing Employees and their dependents under welfare Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Mellon or BNY, respectively, to be credited to such Continuing Employees under welfare Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Newco, so as to reduce the amount of any deductible, co-insurance, or maximum out-of-pocket payments payable by such Continuing Employees under welfare Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Newco.
(c) From the First Effective Time or the Effective Time, as the case may be, Newco shall cause each medical Compensation and Benefit Plan maintained by Mellon or BNY, respectively, to continue in effect for the benefit of the Mellon Continuing Employees or BNY Continuing Employees, respectively, and their dependents so long as such Continuing Employees and their dependents remain eligible to participate and until they shall become eligible to become participants in the corresponding medical Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Newco (and, with respect to any such plan or program, subject to complying with the eligibility requirements after taking into account the crediting of service and benefits accruals and other provisions set forth above and subject to the right of Newco to terminate such plan or program).
(d) From the First Effective Time or the Effective Time, as the case may be, until the expiration of the transitional period described in section 410(b)(6)(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, Newco shall cause each qualified and related non-qualified pension Compensation and Benefit Plan maintained by Mellon or BNY, respectively, to continue in effect for the benefit of
 
the Mellon Continuing Employees or BNY Continuing Employees, respectively, so long as such Continuing Employees remain eligible to participate and until they shall become eligible to become participants in the corresponding qualified and related non-qualified pension Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Newco (and, with respect to any such plan or program, subject to complying with the eligibility requirements after taking into account the crediting of service and benefits accruals and other provisions set forth above and subject to the right of Newco to terminate such plan or program).
(e) Effective as of the Effective Time, Newco hereby assumes all Compensation and Benefit Plans maintained by Mellon or BNY, as applicable, that require express assumption by any successor to Mellon or BNY, as applicable.
(f) The Board of Directors of BNY will have the ability to create severance and other compensation and benefit arrangements for the BNY members of the Newco executive management that it determines in good faith are reasonable, appropriate and provide termination protection in connection with the Merger that is comparable, as of the Effective Time (taking into account the following sentence), to that of Mellon members. The Board of Directors of Mellon will have the ability to change severance and other compensation and benefit arrangements of the Mellon members of the Newco executive management in a manner that it determines in good faith is reasonable, appropriate and necessary to retain such Mellon members through and after the Effective Time, in light of any other changes to such arrangements that Mellon may implement as part of or in connection with the Parties' efforts to create, as of the Effective Time, comparable and appropriate severance and other compensation and benefit arrangements for all members of the Newco executive management. The Parties agree to consult with one another with respect to the foregoing.
(g) The Parties agree that their Boards of Directors will work together in good faith to create appropriate retention bonus arrangements for the members of Newco executive management.
(h) Nothing in this Section 5.17 shall be interpreted as preventing Newco, from and after the Effective Time, from amending, modifying or terminating any BNY Plans, Mellon Plans , or other Contracts, arrangements, commitments or understandings, in accordance with their terms and applicable Law.
(i) To the extent applicable, each of Mellon and BNY will satisfy any service of notice and other obligations under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Act of 1988 or similar local Laws with respect to its officers and employees.
(j) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, this Agreement is not intended, and it shall not be construed, to create third party beneficiary rights in any current or former employee, including the Continuing Employees (including any beneficiaries or dependents thereof), under or with respect to any plan, program or arrangement described in or contemplated by this Agreement and shall not confer upon any such current or former employee, including each Continuing Employee, the right to continued employment for any period of time following Closing.
 
(k) With respect to any Compensation and Benefits Plans of Mellon or BNY that are and will continue to be maintained or contributed to outside of the U.S. primarily for the benefit of Continuing Employees employed outside of the U.S., the principles set forth in Section 5.17(a) through (d) will apply to the extent the application of such principles does not violate applicable local Law and will be modified as and to the extent necessary to comply with applicable local Law.
5.18. .
Indemnification
(a) From and after the Effective Time or the First Effective Time, as the case may be, in the event of any threatened or actual claim, action, suit, proceeding, or investigation, whether civil, criminal, or administrative, in which any Person who is now, or has been at any time prior to the date of this Agreement, or who becomes prior to the Effective Time or the First Effective Time, as the case may be, a director or officer of Mellon or BNY or any of their Subsidiaries (the "Indemnified Parties") is, or is threatened to be, made a party based in whole or in part on, or arising in whole or in part out of, or pertaining to (i) the fact that he is or was a director, officer, or employee of Mellon, BNY, any of their Subsidiaries, or any of their respective predecessors, or (ii) this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, whether in any case asserted or arising before or after the Effective Time or the First Effective Time, as the case may be, Newco shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, each such Indemnified Party against any Liability (including advancement of reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses prior to the final disposition of any claim, suit, proceeding, or investigation to each Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted by Law upon receipt of any undertaking required by applicable Law), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement in connection with any such threatened or actual claim, action, suit, proceeding, or investigation.
(b) Without limiting the indemnification and other rights provided in clause (a), all rights to indemnification and all limitations on Liability existing in favor of the directors, officers, and employees of Mellon, BNY and their Subsidiaries (the "Covered Parties") as provided in their respective Organizational Documents as in effect as of the date of this Agreement or in any indemnification agreement in existence on the date of this Agreement with Mellon, BNY or their Subsidiaries shall survive the Merger and shall continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by Law, and shall be honored by Newco and its Subsidiaries or their respective successors as if they were the indemnifying party thereunder, without any amendment thereto; provided that nothing contained in this Section 5.18(b) shall be deemed to preclude any liquidation, consolidation, or merger of any Mellon or BNY Subsidiaries, in which case all of such rights to indemnification and limitations on Liability shall be deemed to so survive and continue notwithstanding any such liquidation, consolidation, or merger.
(c) Newco, from and after the Effective Time or the First Effective Time, as the case may be, will directly or indirectly cause the Persons who served as directors or officers of Mellon and BNY immediately prior to the Effective Time to be covered by Mellon's or BNY's, respectively, existing directors' and officers' liability insurance policy with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to the Effective Time or the First Effective Time, as the case may be, which were committed by such officers and directors in their capacity as such; provided, that (i) Newco may substitute therefor policies of at least the same coverage and amounts containing
 
terms and conditions which are not less advantageous than such policy, (ii) in no event shall Newco be required to expend more than 250% per year of coverage of the amount currently expended by Mellon and BNY per year of coverage as of the date of this Agreement (the "Maximum Amount") to maintain or procure insurance coverage pursuant hereto, and (iii) if notwithstanding the use of reasonable best efforts to do so, Newco is unable to maintain or obtain the insurance called for by this Section 5.18(c), Newco shall obtain as much comparable insurance as available for the Maximum Amount. Such insurance coverage shall commence at the Effective Time or the First Effective Time, as the case may be, and will be provided for a period of no less than six years after the Effective Time or the First Effective Time, as the case may be.
(d) Any Indemnified Party wishing to claim indemnification under Section 5.18(a), upon learning of any claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation described above, shall promptly notify Newco thereof; provided that the failure so to notify shall not affect the obligations of Newco under Section 5.18(a) unless and to the extent that Newco is actually and materially prejudiced as a result of such failure.
(e) The provisions of this Section 5.18 are intended to be for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by, each Indemnified Party and his or her heirs and representatives.
5.19. .
Corporate Governance
(a) Prior to the Effective Time, Newco shall take all actions necessary to adopt the by-laws set forth in Exhibit 2-B and to effect the requirements referenced therein. The provisions of Article Five of such by-laws shall also be considered an agreement of the Parties in this Agreement mutatis mutandi.
(b) On or prior to the Effective Time, Newco's Board of Directors shall cause the number of directors that will comprise the full Board of Directors of the Surviving Corporation at the Effective Time to be 18. Of the members of the initial Board of Directors of Newco at the Effective Time, eight shall be current independent BNY directors designated by BNY plus the current Chief Executive Officer of BNY and the current President of BNY, and six shall be current independent Mellon directors designated by Mellon plus the current Chief Executive Officer of Mellon and the current Senior Vice Chairman of Mellon.
(c) On or prior to the Effective Time, the Newco Board of Directors shall take such actions as are necessary to cause the persons indicated in Exhibit 4 to be elected or appointed to the offices of Newco specified in such Exhibit as of the Effective Time.
(d) In accordance with, and to the extent provided in, the by-laws of Newco, (i) effective as of the Effective Time, Mr. Thomas Renyi shall become Executive Chairman of Newco, Mr. Robert Kelly shall become Chief Executive Officer of Newco and Mr. Gerald Hassell shall become President of Newco and (ii) Mr. Robert Kelly shall be the successor to Mr. Thomas Renyi as Executive Chairman of Newco and hold the position of Chairman, with such succession to become effective on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date or any such earlier date as of which Mr. Thomas Renyi ceases for any reason to serve in the position of Executive Chairman of Newco.
 
(e) The headquarters of Newco will be located in New York City, New York.
5.20. .
Commitments to the Community
(a) Following the Effective Time, Pittsburgh will serve as the headquarters for the cash management and stock transfer businesses of Newco. A Center of Excellence for Technology, Operations and Administration will be organized and based in Pittsburgh and will be a primary location at which administrative services such as human resources, accounting, facilities, technology and operations will be conducted.
(b) Promptly following the Effective Time, Newco will establish an advisory board for the Pittsburgh metropolitan area (the "Advisory Board"). Newco will invite all current Western Pennsylvania-domiciled Mellon external Board members, Steven G. Elliott and local heads of Newco businesses to become members of the Advisory Board, and shall cause all such individuals who accept such invitation to be elected or appointed as members of the Advisory Board. The role of the Advisory Board shall be to advise Newco with respect to Newco's Western Pennsylvania community development and reinvestment, civic and charitable activities in the greater Pittsburgh area and to focus on jobs, monitor the integration status of Newco and foster revenue growth with corporate and wealth management clients throughout the Western Pennsylvania area. The Advisory Board shall exist for at least three years following the Effective Time, and the individuals who accept the invitation to join the Advisory Board, as described above, shall be entitled to serve as members of the Advisory Board throughout such three-year period (unless removed for cause). Members of the Advisory Board who are not employees of Newco or its Subsidiaries or members of the Board of Directors of Newco will receive a per annum retainer of $45,000 and meeting fees of $1,500 per meeting attended.
(c) Promptly following the Effective Time, Newco shall appoint one or more Senior Executives, designated by Mellon prior to the Closing, who shall be the heads of Newco's Pittsburgh office and, in addition to their regular duties, shall be responsible for advising the CEO on Pennsylvania state and civic issues and representing Newco with major Pennsylvania business and civic organizations.
(d) On the Closing Date, Newco shall cause the Mellon Financial Corporation Foundation to file Articles of Amendment to become the newly named Mellon Charitable Foundation, dedicated to grant making in Western Pennsylvania. On the Closing Date, Newco shall contribute to the Mellon Charitable Foundation an amount in cash equal to $20 million, which with the approximately $60 million currently in the Mellon Financial Corporation Foundation will total approximately $80 million. While serving as such, the members of the Advisory Board shall serve, with others designated from time to time by Newco, as trustees of the Mellon Charitable Foundation. At and after the Effective Time, in addition to the activities of the Mellon Charitable Foundation, Newco shall maintain Mellon's strong commitment to charitable giving in the greater Pittsburgh metropolitan area of not less than $1.2 million annually. On the Closing Date, The Bank of New York Foundation shall be renamed The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Foundation and remain in effect, and Newco shall contribute $40 million to this entity. Following the transfer of assets referred to above, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Foundation shall direct its charitable giving outside the greater Pittsburgh metropolitan area. It is agreed by the Parties that Mellon may effectuate the formation
 
and funding of the Mellon Charitable Foundation and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Foundation set forth in this Section 5.20(d) by alternative steps if appropriate to comply with applicable Law or facilitate the intended purposes.
(e) It is the intent of the Parties that Newco shall use its reasonable best efforts, in light of and subject to business needs, market conditions and other relevant factors, to create jobs in the Western Pennsylvania area over the 3-5 year period following the Effective Time so that the Newco employment levels within such area and at the end of such period are equal to or greater than those of Mellon within such area at the Effective Time.
(f) It is the current expectation of the Parties that Newco will pay quarterly dividends from and after the Effective Time at the initial rate of $0.235 per share of Newco Common Stock, it being understood that the payment of dividends is subject to declaration by, and solely within the discretion of, the Board of Directors of Newco.
(g) The commitments set forth in this Section 5.20 will be reflected in the minutes of Newco following the Closing Date.
5.21. . Mellon and BNY shall be empowered, upon their mutual agreement and without additional approval of their respective Boards of Directors, at any time prior to the Effective Time, to change the method or structure of effecting the combination of Mellon and Newco, and/or of BNY and Newco (including the provisions of Article 1 and Article 2), if and to the extent they both deem such change to be necessary, appropriate or desirable; provided, however, that no such change shall (i) alter or change the BNY Exchange Ratio or the Mellon Exchange Ratio, (ii) adversely affect the tax treatment of Mellon's shareholders or BNY's shareholders pursuant to this Agreement, (iii) adversely affect the tax treatment of Mellon or BNY pursuant to this Agreement or (iv) materially impede or delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in a timely manner. The Parties agree to reflect any such change in an appropriate amendment to this Agreement executed by both Parties and Newco in accordance with Section 8.5.
Change of Method
5.22. . If either BNY or Mellon shall have failed to obtain the requisite vote or votes of its shareholders for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement at a duly held meeting of its shareholders or at any adjournment or postponement thereof, each of the Parties shall in good faith use its reasonable best efforts to negotiate a restructuring of the transactions provided for herein (it being understood that neither Party shall have any obligation to alter or change any material terms of this Agreement, including the amount or kind of the merger consideration, in a manner adverse to such Party or its shareholders) and/or to resubmit the transaction to their respective shareholders for approval.
Restructuring Efforts
6.1. . The respective obligations of each Party and Newco to consummate the Merger are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions, unless waived by each Party pursuant to Section 8.6:
Conditions to Obligations of Each Party
(a) . Mellon shall have obtained the Mellon Shareholder Approval and BNY shall have obtained the BNY Shareholder Approval.
Shareholder Approvals
 
(b) . All Regulatory Consents required to consummate the Merger (the "Required Consents") shall (i) have been obtained or made and be in full force and effect and all waiting periods required by Law shall have expired and (ii) not be subject to any term or condition that would, after the Effective Time, have or be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on Newco.
Regulatory Approvals
(c) . No Order issued by any Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction (whether temporary, preliminary, or permanent) preventing the consummation of the First Step Merger or the Second Step Merger shall be in effect and no Law or Order shall have been enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by any Governmental Authority that prohibits, restrains, or makes illegal the consummation of the First Step Merger or the Second Step Merger.
No Orders or Restraints; Illegality
(d) . The Registration Statement shall be effective under the 1933 Act, no stop orders suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued, and no action, suit, proceeding, or investigation by the SEC to suspend the effectiveness thereof shall have been initiated and not withdrawn.
Registration Statement
(e) . The shares of Newco Common Stock to be issued to the holders of Mellon Common Stock and BNY Common Stock in connection with the Merger shall have been authorized for listing on the NYSE (and holders of BNY Stock Options and Stock-Based Awards and Mellon Stock Options and Stock-Based Awards), subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing of Newco Common Stock
6.2. . The obligations of Mellon to consummate the First Step Merger are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions, unless waived by Mellon pursuant to Section 8.6:
Conditions to Obligations of Mellon
(a) . The representations and warranties of BNY and Newco set forth in this Agreement, after giving effect to Sections 4.1 and 4.2, shall be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made at and as of the Closing Date (except that representations and warranties that by their terms speak specifically as of the date of this Agreement or some other date shall be true and correct as of such date) and Mellon shall have received certificates, dated the Closing Date, signed on behalf of BNY by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of BNY and signed on behalf of Newco by a senior officer thereof to such effect.
Representations and Warranties
(b) . BNY and Newco shall each have duly performed and complied with the agreements and covenants required to be performed and complied with by it pursuant to this Agreement prior to the Effective Time in all material respects and Mellon shall have received certificates, dated the Closing Date, signed on behalf of BNY by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of BNY and signed on behalf of Newco by a senior officer thereof to such effect.
Performance of Agreements and Covenants
 
(c) . Mellon shall have received a written opinion from Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP in a form reasonably satisfactory to Mellon, dated the date of the Effective Time, substantially to the effect that, (i) each of the First Step Merger and the Second Step Merger will constitute a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) each of Mellon and Newco will be a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code in respect of the First Step Merger and each of BNY and Newco will be a party to the reorganization in respect of the Second Step Merger, and (iii) no gain or loss will be recognized by holders of Mellon Common Stock who exchange all of their Mellon Common Stock solely for Newco Common Stock pursuant to the First Step Merger. In rendering such opinion, such counsel shall be entitled to rely upon representations of officers of Mellon, BNY and Newco reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to such counsel.
Tax Opinion
(d) . All conditions to the consummation of the Section Step Merger, other than the condition in Section 6.3(d) shall have been satisfied or waived.
Second Step Merger
6.3. . The obligations of BNY to consummate the Second Step Merger are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions, unless waived by BNY pursuant to Section 8.6:
Conditions to Obligations of BNY
(a) . The representations and warranties of Mellon and Newco set forth in this Agreement, after giving effect to Sections 4.1 and 4.2, shall be true and correct as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made at and as of the Closing Date (except that representations and warranties that by their terms speak specifically as of the date of this Agreement or some other date shall be true and correct as of such date) and BNY shall have received certificates, dated the Closing Date, signed on behalf of Mellon by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Mellon and signed on behalf of Newco by a senior officer thereof to such effect.
Representations and Warranties
(b) . Mellon and Newco shall each have duly performed and complied with the agreements and covenants required to be performed and complied with by it pursuant to this Agreement prior to the Effective Time in all material respects and BNY shall have received certificates, dated the Closing Date, signed on behalf of Mellon by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Mellon and signed on behalf of Newco by a senior officer thereof to such effect.
Performance of Agreements and Covenants
(c) . BNY shall have received a written opinion from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP in a form reasonably satisfactory to BNY, dated the date of the Effective Time, substantially to the effect that, (i) each of the First Step Merger and the Second Step Merger will constitute a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) each of Mellon and Newco will be a party to the
Tax Opinion
 
reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Internal Revenue Code in respect of the First Step Merger and each of BNY and Newco will be a party to the reorganization in respect of the Second Step Merger, and (iii) no gain or loss will be recognized by holders of BNY Common Stock who exchange all of their BNY Common Stock solely for Newco Common Stock pursuant to the Second Step Merger. In rendering such opinion, such counsel shall be entitled to rely upon representations of officers of Mellon, BNY and Newco reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to such counsel.
(d) . The First Effective Time shall have occurred and the First Step Merger shall have been consummated.
Consummation of the First Step Merger
7.1. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, and notwithstanding the Mellon Shareholder Approval and BNY Shareholder Approval, this Agreement may be terminated and the Merger abandoned at any time prior to the First Effective Time, by action taken or authorized by the Board of Directors of the terminating Party or Parties:
Termination
(a) By mutual consent of both Parties; or
(b) By either Party, upon written notice to the other Party, in the event of a breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on the part of the other Party, which breach, individually or in the aggregate, would result in, if occurring or continuing on the Closing Date, the failure of the conditions to the terminating Party's obligations set forth in Section 6.2 or 6.3, as the case may be, and which cannot be or has not been cured within 30 days after the giving of written notice to the breaching Party of such breach; or
(c) By either Party, upon written notice to the other Party, in the event that any Required Consent has been denied by final nonappealable action of the relevant Governmental Authority; or any Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction shall have issued an Order or taken any other action permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Merger, and such Order or other action has become final and nonappealable; or
(d) By either Party, upon written notice to the other Party, in the event that the Merger has not been consummated by December 31, 2007 (the "Termination Date"), provided, however, that the right to terminate this Agreement under this Section 7.1(d) shall not be available to any Party whose failure to comply with any provision of this Agreement has been the cause of, or resulted in, the failure of the Merger to be consummated on or before the Termination Date; or
(e) By either Party, upon written notice to the other Party, if the Board of Directors of the other Party shall have (i) failed to recommend adoption of this Agreement; or withdrawn, modified or qualified (or proposed to withdraw, modify or qualify) such recommendation in any manner adverse to the terminating Party; or taken any other action or made any other statement in connection with the BNY Shareholders Meeting or Mellon Shareholders Meeting, as the case may be, inconsistent with such
 
recommendation (any such action in this clause (i), a "Change in Recommendation") (or resolved to take any such action), whether or not permitted by the terms hereof, (ii) materially breached its obligations under this Agreement by reason of (x) a failure to call in the case of BNY, the BNY Shareholders' Meeting in accordance with Section 5.6(a) or, in the case of Mellon, the Mellon Shareholders' Meeting in accordance with Section 5.6(b) or (y) a failure to prepare and mail to its shareholders the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus in accordance with Section 5.7(a) or (iii) materially breached its obligations under Section 5.6 or 5.13; or
(f) By either Party, if it determines in good faith by a majority vote of its Board of Directors that the other Party has substantially engaged in bad faith in breach of its obligations under Section 5.22 of this Agreement; or
(g) By either Party, if a tender offer or exchange offer for 20% or more of the outstanding shares of the other Party's Common Stock is commenced (other than by the terminating Party), and the Board of Directors of the other Party recommends that its shareholders tender their shares in such tender or exchange offer or otherwise fails to recommend that such shareholders reject such tender offer or exchange offer within the 10 business day period specified in Rule 14e-2(a) under the 1934 Act.
7.2. . In the event of the termination and abandonment of this Agreement pursuant to Section 7.1, this Agreement shall become void and have no effect, and none of BNY, Mellon, any of their respective Subsidiaries, or any of the officers or directors of any of them, shall have any Liability of any nature whatsoever hereunder or in conjunction with the transactions contemplated hereby, except that (a) the provisions of Sections 4.3(r) and 5.11(b), this Section 7.2 and Article 8 shall survive any such termination and abandonment, and (b) a termination of this Agreement shall not relieve the breaching Party from Liability for any uncured willful and material breach of a covenant or agreement of such Party contained in this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
8.1. .
Definitions
(a) Except as otherwise provided herein, the capitalized terms set forth below shall have the following meanings:
"1933 ACT" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"1934 ACT" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"ACQUISITION PROPOSAL" shall mean, other than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, any offer, proposal or inquiry relating to, or any third party indication of interest in, (i) any acquisition or purchase, direct or indirect, of 20% or
 
more of the consolidated assets of a Party and its Subsidiaries (including Stock of its Subsidiaries) or 20% or more of any class of equity or voting securities of a Party or its Subsidiaries whose assets, individually or in the aggregate, constitute more than 20% of the consolidated assets of the Party, (ii) any tender offer (including a self-tender offer) or exchange offer that, if consummated, would result in such third party (or the shareholders of such third party) beneficially owning 20% or more of any class of equity or voting securities of a Party or its Subsidiaries whose assets, individually or in the aggregate, constitute more than 20% of the consolidated assets of the Party, or (iii) a merger, consolidation, share exchange, business combination, reorganization, recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution or other similar transaction involving a Party or its Subsidiaries whose assets, individually or in the aggregate, constitute more than 20% of the consolidated assets of the Party.
"AFFILIATE" of a Person shall mean any other Person directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person.
"BHC ACT" shall mean the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
"BNY CAPITAL STOCK" shall mean BNY Common Stock, BNY Class A Preferred Stock and BNY Preferred Stock.
"BNY CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK" shall mean the $2.00 par value per share preferred stock of BNY.
"BNY COMMON STOCK" shall mean the $7.50 par value per share common stock of BNY.
"BNY EXCHANGE RATIO" shall mean 0.9434.
"BNY PREFERRED STOCK" shall mean the no par value per share preferred stock of BNY.
"BNY RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION" shall mean the restated certificate of incorporation of BNY in effect as of the date of this Agreement and amended from time to time thereafter.
"COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PLAN" shall mean any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, deferred compensation, stock option, employee stock ownership, severance pay, vacation, bonus, or other incentive plan, any other employee program or agreement, any medical, vision, dental, or other written health plan, any life insurance plan, and any other employee benefit plan or fringe benefit plan, including any "employee benefit plan" (as that term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), maintained by, sponsored in whole or in part by, or contributed to by a Party for the benefit of its and its Subsidiaries' employees, retirees, dependents, spouses, directors, independent contractors, or other beneficiaries and under which such employees, retirees, dependents, spouses, directors, independent contractors, or other beneficiaries are eligible to
 
participate and, except for the purposes of the first sentence of Section 4.3(k)(i) and the provisions of Section 5.17 (other than Section 5.17(e)), any employment, severance, termination, consulting or retirement Contract with its or its Subsidiaries' current or former employees.
"CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT" shall mean that certain Confidentiality Agreement, dated November 1, 2006, by and between BNY and Mellon.
"CONSENT" shall mean any consent, approval, authorization, clearance, exemption, waiver, or similar affirmation by any Person pursuant to any Contract, Law, Order, or Permit.
"CONTRACT" shall mean any written or oral agreement, arrangement, commitment, contract, indenture, instrument, lease, understanding, or undertaking of any kind or character to which any Person is a party or that is binding on any Person or its capital stock, assets, or business.
"CORPORATE TRUST BUSINESS" shall mean (i) providing (whether directly or under the name of another bank or trust company through a private label relationship) corporate trust and agency services for corporate, municipal, governmental agency and other issuers of debt and asset-backed, mortgage-backed, collateralized debt obligation, trust preferred, commercial paper issued by municipalities in the United States, project finance, Eurobonds, repacks, conduits, structured investment vehicles (SIV) and other securities under various indentures, agreements and resolutions, including providing investment execution, document custody, master servicing, common and specialized depositary, bond analytics, debt defeasance and other escrow services in conjunction with acting in a capacity otherwise included in the Corporate Trust Business, and other related services, all as provided in a Corporate Trust Capacity; and (ii) serving as loan agency, collateral agent and other specialty agencies arising in a Corporate Trust Capacity.
"CORPORATE TRUST CAPACITY" shall mean acting in a trustee, registrar, agency, custodial or other similar capacity under a Corporate Trust Agreement, and any rights or duties arising from, or the provision of any services in connection with, any such capacities.
"DEFAULT" shall mean (i) any breach or violation of or default under any Contract, Law, Order, or Permit, (ii) any occurrence of any event that with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would constitute a breach or violation of or default under any Contract, Law, Order, or Permit, or (iii) any occurrence of any event that with or without the passage of time or the giving of notice would give rise to a right to terminate or revoke, change the current terms of, or renegotiate, or to accelerate, increase, or impose any Liability under, any Contract, Law, Order, or Permit.
"DGCL" shall mean the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
"ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS" shall mean all Laws relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground water, land surface, or subsurface strata) and which are administered, interpreted,
 
or enforced by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and state and local agencies with jurisdiction over, and including common Law in respect of, pollution or protection of the environment, including CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et seq., and any other Laws relating to emissions, discharges, releases, or threatened releases of any Hazardous Material, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport, or handling of any Hazardous Material.
"ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
"ERISA PLAN" shall mean any Compensation and Benefit Plan which is an "employee welfare benefit plan," as that term is defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA, or an "employee pension benefit plan," as that term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA.
"EXCHANGE AGENT" shall mean an exchange agent mutually agreed upon by BNY and Mellon, which may be an Affiliate of either Party.
"EXHIBITS" 1 through 4, inclusive, shall mean the Exhibits so marked, copies of which are attached to this Agreement. Such Exhibits are hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part hereof, and may be referred to in this Agreement and any other related instrument or document without being attached hereto.
"FACILITIES" shall mean all buildings and improvements on the Property of any Person and any of its Subsidiaries.
"FINANCIAL STATEMENTS" shall mean the consolidated statements of condition or balance sheets (including related notes and schedules, if any) of a Party included in any SEC Report filed by a Party, and the related statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows (including related notes and schedules, if any) included in any SEC Report filed by a Party.
"GAAP" shall mean United States generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied during the periods involved.
"GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY" shall mean each Regulatory Authority and any other domestic or foreign court, administrative agency, commission or other governmental authority or instrumentality (including the staff thereof), or any industry self-regulatory authority (including the staff thereof).
"HAZARDOUS MATERIAL" shall mean (i) any hazardous substance, hazardous material, hazardous waste, regulated substance, or toxic substance (as those terms are defined by any applicable Environmental Laws), and (ii) any chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, petroleum, petroleum products that are or become regulated under any applicable local, state, or federal Law (and specifically shall include asbestos requiring abatement, removal, or encapsulation pursuant to the requirements of governmental authorities, black mold and any polychlorinated biphenyls).
 
"HSR ACT" shall mean Section 7A of the Clayton Act, as added by Title II of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY" shall mean all patents, trademarks, trade names, service marks, domain names, database rights, copyrights, and any applications therefor, mask works, technology, know-how, Trade Secrets, inventory, ideas, algorithms, processes, computer software programs or applications (in both source code and object code form), and tangible or intangible proprietary information or material and all other intellectual property or proprietary rights.
"INTERNAL REVENUE CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS" shall mean the joint proxy statement and prospectus and other proxy solicitation materials of BNY and Mellon constituting a part of the Registration Statement.
"LAW" shall mean any code, law (including common law), ordinance, regulation, rule, or statute applicable to a Person or its assets, Liabilities, or business, including those promulgated, interpreted, or enforced by any Governmental Authority.
"LIABILITY" shall mean any direct or indirect, primary or secondary, liability, indebtedness, obligation, penalty, cost, or expense (including costs of investigation, collection, and defense), claim, deficiency, or guaranty of any type, whether accrued, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, matured or unmatured, or otherwise.
"LIEN" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, reservation, restriction (other than a restriction on transfers arising under the Securities Laws), security interest, lien, or encumbrance of any nature whatsoever of, on, or with respect to any property or property interest, other than (i) Liens for property Taxes not yet due and payable and (ii) in the case of depository institution Subsidiaries of a Party, pledges to secure deposits.
"LITIGATION" shall mean any action, arbitration, cause of action, claim, complaint, criminal prosecution, demand letter, governmental or other examination or investigation, hearing, inquiry, administrative or other proceeding, suit or notice (written or oral) by any Person alleging potential Liability, but shall not include regular, periodic examinations by Regulatory Authorities.
"MELLON RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION" shall mean the restated articles of incorporation of Mellon in effect as of the date of this Agreement and as amended from time to time thereafter.
"MELLON CAPITAL STOCK" shall mean the Mellon Common Stock and Mellon Preferred Stock.
"MELLON COMMON STOCK" shall mean the $0.50 par value per share common stock of Mellon.
 
"MELLON EXCHANGE RATIO" shall mean 1.0.
"MELLON PREFERRED STOCK" shall mean the $1.00 par value per share preferred stock of Mellon.
"NASD" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
"NEWCO COMMON STOCK" shall mean the common stock of Newco.
"NYBCL" shall mean the New York Business Corporation Law, as amended.
"NYSE" shall mean the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
"ORDER" shall mean any administrative decision or award, decree, injunction, judgment, order, quasi-judicial decision or award, ruling, or writ of any federal, state, local, or foreign or other court, arbitrator, mediator, tribunal, administrative agency, or Governmental Authority.
"ORGANIZATIONAL DOCUMENTS" shall mean the articles of incorporation, certificate of incorporation, charter, by-laws or other similar governing instruments, in each case as amended as of the date specified, of any Person, including the Mellon Restated Charter and the BNY Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
"OUTSTANDING" shall mean, with respect to shares of capital stock of a Party or Newco, shares of such capital stock that are issued and outstanding at a particular time.
"PARTY" shall mean either BNY or Mellon, and "PARTIES" shall mean both BNY and Mellon.
"PBCL" shall mean the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, as amended.
"PENSION PLAN" shall mean any ERISA Plan which is also subject to Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 302 of ERISA.
"PERMIT" shall mean any federal, state, local, and foreign governmental approval, authorization, certificate, easement, filing, franchise, license, order or permit from Governmental Authorities that are required for the operation of a Party's respective businesses.
"PERMITTED ISSUANCES" shall mean (a) in the case of BNY, (i) issuances of BNY Common Stock upon exercise of Rights outstanding as of the date hereof issued under the BNY Stock Plans, (ii) issuances of new Rights pursuant to and in accordance with the BNY Stock Plans for up to 105% of the number by type (i.e., options, restricted stock) of Rights issued by BNY during the twelve months prior to the date hereof, provided that (A) such new issuances are in the ordinary course of business and consistent in all material respects with past practice in terms of the timing, type, terms and amount of such issuances and (B) such Rights do not vest in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iii) issuances of BNY Common Stock in
 
accordance with the BNY Stock Plans pursuant to Rights issued under (a)(ii) above, (iv) issuances of BNY Common Stock pursuant to the BNY DRIP and the BNY ESPP to the extent permitted hereunder, (v) issuances of BNY Common Stock upon conversion of BNY Series A Preferred Stock, and (vi) issuances set forth in Section 8.1(a) of the BNY Disclosure Letter; and (b) in the case of Mellon, (i) issuances of Mellon Common Stock upon exercise of Rights outstanding as of the date hereof issued under the Mellon Stock Plans, (ii) issuances of new Rights pursuant to and in accordance with the Mellon Stock Plans for up to 105% of the number by type (i.e., options, restricted stock) of Rights issued by Mellon during the twelve months prior to the date hereof, provided that (A) such issuances are in the ordinary course of business and consistent in all material respects with past practice in terms of the timing, type, terms and amount of such issuances and (B) such Rights do not vest in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iii) issuances of Mellon Common Stock in accordance with the Mellon Stock Plans pursuant to Rights issued under (b)(ii) above, (iv) issuances of Mellon Common Stock pursuant to the Mellon DRIP and the Mellon ESPP in accordance with the terms and provisions of those plans as currently in effect, (v) issuances of Mellon Common Stock pursuant to earn-out or other similar provisions under Contracts set forth in Section 8.1(a) of the Mellon Disclosure Letter, (vi) issuances of Mellon Common Stock in the form of (A) Mellon matching contributions to the Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan (the amount of which contributions may be increased as set forth in Sections 4.3(k)(x) and 8.1(a) of the Mellon Disclosure Letter) and (B) elections of participants in such Retirement Savings Plan as to the investment of their balances thereunder, and (vii) issuances set forth in Sections 4.3(k)(x) and 8.1(a) of the Mellon Disclosure Letter.
"PERMITTED REPURCHASES" shall mean (a) repurchases of BNY Capital Stock or Mellon Capital Stock in accordance with any stock repurchase program announced prior to the date of this Agreement by a Party, or any extension or renewal of such program, provided that all such repurchases are made in compliance with the safe harbor contained in Rule 10b-18 under the 1934 Act, (b) repurchases or redemptions (including any cancellation upon conversion into Mellon Common Stock) of the issued and outstanding shares of BNY Series A Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 5.4 and (c) any repurchases set forth in Section 8.2(b) of the BNY Disclosure Letter or the Mellon Disclosure Letter, as the case may be.
"PERSON" shall mean a natural person or any legal, commercial, or governmental entity, including a corporation, general partnership, joint venture, limited partnership, limited liability company, trust, business association, group acting in concert, or any person acting in a representative capacity.
"PROPERTY" shall mean all real property leased or owned by any Person and its Subsidiaries, either currently or in the past.
"REGISTRATION STATEMENT" shall mean the Registration Statement on Form S-4, or other appropriate form, including any pre-effective or post-effective amendments or supplements thereto, filed with the SEC by Newco under the 1933 Act with respect to the shares of Newco Common Stock to be issued to the shareholders of Mellon and BNY in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
"REGULATORY AUTHORITIES" shall mean, collectively, the Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice, the Board of the Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Internal Revenue Service, the PBGC, all state regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Parties and their respective Subsidiaries, the NASD, the NYSE, and the SEC (including, in each case, the staff thereof).
"REPRESENTATIVE" shall mean any investment banker, financial advisor, attorney, accountant, consultant, agent or other representative of a Person.
"RIGHTS" shall mean, with respect to any Person, securities, or obligations convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, or giving any Person any right to subscribe for or acquire, or any options, calls, restricted stock, deferred stock awards, stock units, phantom awards, dividend equivalents, or commitments relating to, or any stock appreciation right or other instrument the value of which is determined in whole or in part by reference to the market price or value of, shares of capital stock or earnings of such Person, and shall include the BNY Stock Options, BNY Stock-Based Awards, Mellon Stock Options and Mellon Stock-Based Awards.
"SEC" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
"SEC DOCUMENTS" shall mean all forms, proxy statements, registration statements, offering circulars, information statements, reports, schedules, and other documents filed, or required to be filed, by a Party or any of its Subsidiaries with the SEC.
"SECURITIES LAWS" shall mean the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act, the Investment Company Act, the Investment Advisers Act, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, each as amended, and state securities and "Blue Sky" Laws, including in each case the rules and regulations of any Governmental Authority promulgated thereunder.
"STOCK OPTION AGREEMENTS" shall mean the collective reference to the Mellon Stock Option Agreement and the BNY Stock Option Agreement.
"SUBSIDIARY" or "SUBSIDIARIES" shall have the meaning assigned in Rule 1-02(x) of Regulation S-X of the SEC; provided that there shall not be included any such entity acquired through foreclosure or any such entity the equity securities of which are owned or controlled in a fiduciary capacity; provided, that unless the context otherwise requires, Newco shall not be considered a Subsidiary of either Party.
"SUPERIOR PROPOSAL" shall mean a bona fide written Acquisition Proposal which the Board of Directors of a Party concludes in good faith, after consultation with such Party's financial advisors and outside legal counsel, taking into account all legal, financial, regulatory and other aspects of the proposal and the person making the proposal
 
(including any break-up fees, expense reimbursement provisions and conditions to consummation), (i) is demonstrably more favorable to the shareholders of such Party from a financial point of view than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (ii) is fully financed, has no more than an immaterial risk of not receiving all required governmental approvals on a timely basis and is otherwise reasonably capable of being completed on the terms proposed; that, for purposes of this definition of "Superior Proposal," the term Acquisition Proposal shall have the meaning assigned to such term in this Section 8.1(a), except that each reference to "20% or more" in the definition of "Acquisition Proposal" shall be deemed to be a reference to "a majority" and "Acquisition Proposal" shall only be deemed to refer to a transaction involving Mellon or BNY, as the case may be, and not any of their respective Subsidiaries.
provided
"TAX" or "TAXES" shall mean all federal, state, local, and foreign taxes, levies, imposts, duties, or other like assessments, including income, gross receipts, excise, employment, sales, use, transfer, license, payroll, franchise, severance, stamp, occupation, windfall profits, environmental, federal highway use, commercial rent, customs duties, capital stock, paid-up capital, profits, withholding, Social Security, single business and unemployment, disability, real property, personal property, registration, ad valorem, value added, alternative or add-on minimum, estimated, or other tax of any kind whatsoever, including any related interest and penalties, or additions thereto.
"TAX RETURN" shall mean any report, return, information return, or other information required to be supplied to a Taxing authority in connection with Taxes, including any return of an Affiliated or combined or unitary group that includes a Party or its Subsidiaries.
"TAXABLE PERIOD" shall mean any period prescribed by any governmental authority, including the United States or any state, local, or foreign government or subdivision or agency thereof for which a Tax Return is required to be filed or Tax is required to be paid.
"TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS" shall mean the electronic data processing, information, record keeping, communications, telecommunications, hardware, third party software, networks, peripherals, portfolio trading and computer systems, including any outsourced systems and processes, and Intellectual Property which are used by Person and its Subsidiaries.
"TRADE SECRETS" means all trade secrets and confidential information and know-how, including without limitation processes, schematics, business methods, formulae, drawings, prototypes, models, designs, customer lists and supplier lists.
(b) The terms set forth below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the referenced sections:
 
 
 
(c) Any singular term in this Agreement shall be deemed to include the plural, and any plural term the singular. Whenever the words "include," "includes," or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed followed by the words "without limitation." The words "hereby," "herein," "hereof" or "hereunder," and similar terms are to be deemed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any specific section. The phrase "date hereof" or "date of this Agreement" shall be deemed to refer to December 3, 2006.
8.2. . Except for Article 1, Article 2 and Article 3, Sections 5.5(c), 5.11(b), 5.17, 5.18, 5.19 and 5.20, and this Article 8, the respective representations, warranties, obligations, covenants, and agreements of the Parties and Newco shall be deemed only to be conditions of the Merger and shall not survive the Effective Time.
Non-Survival of Representations and Covenants
 
8.3. . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8.3, each of the Parties and Newco shall bear and pay all costs and expenses incurred by it or on its behalf in connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder, including filing, registration, and application fees, printing fees, and fees and expenses of its own financial or other consultants, investment bankers, accountants, and counsel, except that the Parties shall each bear and pay one-half of the filing fees payable in connection with the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, one half of the printing and mailing costs incurred in connection with the printing and mailing of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and one half of the filing fees in connection with any filing under the HSR Act.
Expenses
8.4. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement (including the Disclosure Letters and Exhibits) constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and Newco with respect to the transactions contemplated hereunder and supersedes all prior arrangements or understandings with respect thereto, written or oral, other than the Confidentiality Agreement, which shall remain in effect. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any Person, other than the Parties or Newco or their respective successors, any rights, remedies, obligations, or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement except as provided in Sections 5.18 and 5.19.
Entire Agreement
8.5. . Before the Effective Time, this Agreement may be amended by a subsequent writing signed by each of the Parties and Newco, by action taken or authorized by their respective Boards of Directors, whether before or after the Mellon Shareholder Approval or BNY Shareholder Approval has been obtained, except to the extent that any such amendment would violate applicable Law or would require the approval of the shareholders of Mellon or shareholders of BNY, unless such required approval is obtained.
Amendments
8.6. .
Waivers
(a) Prior to or at the Effective Time, either Party or Newco shall have the right to waive any Default in the performance of any term of this Agreement by the other Party or Newco, to waive or extend the time for the compliance or fulfillment by the other Party or Newco of any and all of such other Party's or Newco's obligations under this Agreement, and to waive any or all of the conditions precedent to its obligations under this Agreement, except any condition which, if not satisfied, would result in the violation of any Law. No waiver by a Party or Newco shall be effective unless in writing signed by a duly authorized officer of such Party or Newco.
(b) The failure of any Party or Newco at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect the right of such Party or Newco at a later time to enforce the same or any other provision of this Agreement. No waiver of any condition or of the breach of any term contained in this Agreement in one or more instances shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of such condition or breach or a waiver of any other condition or of the breach of any other term of this Agreement.
8.7. . Except as expressly contemplated hereby, neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests, or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any Party or Newco (whether by operation of Law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of each other party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
Assignment
 
8.8. . All notices or other communications which are required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and sufficient if delivered by hand, by facsimile transmission, by registered or certified mail, postage pre-paid, or by courier or overnight carrier, to the Persons at the addresses set forth below (or at such other address as may be provided hereunder), and shall be deemed to have been delivered as of the date so delivered:
Notices
 
 
8.9. . This Agreement shall be governed by, and interpreted and construed in accordance with, the Law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
8.10. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and which counterparts may be delivered by facsimile.
Counterparts
8.11. . The captions contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are not part of this Agreement.
Captions
8.12. . Neither this Agreement nor any uncertainty or ambiguity herein shall be construed or resolved against any Party or Newco, whether under any rule of construction or otherwise. No party to this Agreement shall be considered the draftsman. The Parties and Newco acknowledge and agree that this Agreement has been reviewed, negotiated, and accepted by all Parties and their attorneys and shall be construed and interpreted according to the ordinary meaning of the words used so as fairly to accomplish the purposes and intentions of the Parties and Newco. Nothing contained herein shall require any Party or person to take any action of any type in violation of applicable Law.
Interpretations
8.13. . If any term or provision of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof, or the application of such provision to Persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid or unenforceable, shall remain in full force and effect and in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated thereby, so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party or Newco. Upon such determination, the Parties and Newco shall negotiate in good faith in an effort to agree upon a suitable and equitable substitute provision to effect the original intent of the Parties and Newco. If any provision of this Agreement is so broad as to be unenforceable, the provision shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable.
Severability
8.14. . Each Party and Newco acknowledges and agrees that any controversy which may arise under this Agreement is likely to involve complicated and difficult issues, and therefore each Party and Newco hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives any right such Party and Newco may have to a trial by jury in respect of any Litigation, directly or indirectly, arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement, or the transactions contemplated by this
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
Agreement. Each Party and Newco certifies and acknowledges that (a) no representative, agent or attorney of the other Party or Newco has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other Party or Newco would not, in the event of Litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver, (b) each Party and Newco understands and has considered the implications of this waiver, (c) each Party and Newco makes this waiver voluntarily, and (d) each Party and Newco has been induced to enter into this Agreement by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certifications in this Section 8.14.
8.15. . Each Party and Newco hereto irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of (i) the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, County of New Castle, and (ii) the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, for the purposes of any suit, action or other proceeding arising out of this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby. Each Party and Newco hereto agrees to commence any action, suit or proceeding relating hereto either in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware or, if such suit, action or other proceeding may not be brought in such court for reasons of subject matter jurisdiction, in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, County of New Castle. Each Party and Newco hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any action, suit or proceeding arising out of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in (A) the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, County of New Castle, or (B) the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, and hereby further irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action, suit or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Each Party and Newco hereto further irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such suit, action or other proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof by mail to such party at its address set forth in this Agreement, such service of process to be effective upon acknowledgment of receipt of such registered mail; provided that nothing in this Section shall affect the right of any party to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by Law. The consent to jurisdiction set forth in this Section shall not constitute a general consent to service of process in the State of Delaware and shall have no effect for any purpose except as provided in this Section. The Parties and Newco hereto agree that a final judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by Law.
Submission to Jurisdiction
8.16. . The Parties and Newco agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms on a timely basis or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the Parties and Newco shall be entitled to an injunction or other equitable relief to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in any court identified in Section 8.15 above, this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity.
Specific Performance
8.17. . This Agreement amends and restates the Original Agreement in its entirety. All amendments to the Original Agreement effected by this Agreement, and all other covenants, agreements, terms and provisions of this Agreement, shall have effect as of December 3, 2006 unless expressly stated otherwise. This Agreement shall be effective as of the date that copies hereof have been executed and delivered upon execution by each of the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of Amendment and Restatement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Parties has caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered on its behalf by its duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 3.1
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.
SECOND: The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
THIRD: The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
FOURTH: The aggregate number of shares of all classes of capital stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 3,600,000,000 of which 3,500,000,000 shares shall be Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 100,000,000 shares shall be Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share. Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, and the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or any committee thereof) may fix by resolution or resolutions, prior to the issuance of any shares of such series, the voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, applicable to the shares of such series.
FIFTH: (a) Unless otherwise provided in any Certificate of Designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock, the number of authorized shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased by the affirmative vote of the holders of capital stock
representing a majority of the voting power represented by the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(b) Except as required by law, holders of Common Stock, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificate of Designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificate of Designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock) or pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law.
SIXTH: (a) In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors of the Corporation is expressly authorized to make, alter and repeal the by-laws of the Corporation.
(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, during the period beginning at the Effective Time (as defined in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, by and between Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Company, Inc., as the same may be amended from time to time) and ending on the thirty-six month anniversary of the Effective Time, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% in voting power represented by the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to modify, amend or repeal Article Five of the by-laws of the Corporation or to adopt any by-law provision or other resolution inconsistent with Article Five.
SEVENTH: Unless and except to the extent that the by-laws of the Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.
EIGHTH: (a) RIGHT TO INDEMNIFICATION. The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any person (a "Covered Person") who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "Proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a Director or officer of the Corporation or, while a Director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and settlement amounts actually and reasonably incurred by such Covered Person in connection with such Proceeding. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Corporation shall be required to indemnify a Covered Person in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) commenced or brought by such Covered Person only if the commencement or bringing of such Proceeding (or part thereof) by the Covered Person was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Persons who are not Directors or officers of the Corporation may be similarly indemnified in respect of service to the Corporation or to another such entity at the request of the Corporation to the extent the Board of Directors at any time denominates any of such persons as entitled to the
 
benefits of this Article Eighth. The indemnification provided in this paragraph (a) shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive payment in advance of any expenses incurred by the Covered Person in connection with such Proceeding in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Article Eighth.
(b) INSURANCE, CONTRACTS AND FUNDING. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Covered Person against any liability or expense asserted or incurred by such Covered Person in connection with any Proceeding, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such Covered Person against such liability or expense by law or under the provisions of this Article Eighth. The Corporation may enter into contracts with any Director or officer or, as authorized by the Board of Directors, any other employee or agent of the Corporation in furtherance of the provisions of this Article Eighth and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article Eighth.
(c) ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES. The Corporation shall to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a Covered Person in defending any Proceeding (other than any Proceeding (or part thereof) commenced or brought by such Covered Person without the specific authorization of the Board of Directors of the Corporation) in advance of its final disposition; , , that, to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Covered Person to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Covered Person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation under this Article Eighth or otherwise.
provided
however
(d) CLAIMS. If a written claim under paragraph (a) or paragraph (c) of this Article Eighth is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after such claim has been received by the Corporation, the Covered Person may at any time thereafter initiate a Proceeding against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the Covered Person shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such Proceeding. It shall be a defense to any Proceeding to recover a claim under paragraph (a) of this Article Eighth that the Covered Person is not entitled to indemnification under applicable law, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel and its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the Covered Person is proper in the circumstances, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the Covered Person is not entitled to indemnification under applicable law, shall be a defense to such Proceeding or create a presumption that the Covered Person is not entitled to indemnification under applicable law. The only defense to any such Proceeding to receive payment of expenses in advance under paragraph (c) of this Article Eighth shall be failure to make an undertaking to repay all amounts advanced if such an undertaking is required by law or by provision in this Certificate of Incorporation, agreement or otherwise.
(e) NONEXCLUSIVITY; NATURE AND EXTENT OF RIGHTS. The right of indemnification and advancement of expenses provided in this Article Eighth shall not be
 
exclusive of any other rights to which a person seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may otherwise be entitled, under any statute, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. The provisions of this Article Eighth (i) shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any person entitled to indemnity under this Article Eighth, (ii) shall continue as to each person who has ceased to have the status pursuant to which he or she was entitled or was denominated as entitled to indemnification hereunder, and (iii) shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article Eighth, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
(f) AMENDMENT OR REPEAL. Any repeal or modification of the provisions of this Article Eighth shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any Covered Person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
(g) OTHER INDEMNIFICATION. This Article Eighth shall not limit the right of the Corporation, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than Covered Persons when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
NINTH: A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders or creditors for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any amendment, modification or repeal of the foregoing sentence shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such amendment, modification or repeal.
TENTH: Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of the Common Stock of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, only if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation.
ELEVENTH: The Corporation reserves the right to alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the extent now or hereafter permitted or prescribed by law, and all rights, preferences and privileges of any nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the rights reserved in this article.
 

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1. ANNUAL MEETINGS. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of Directors and the transaction of all other business that may properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date as the Board of Directors shall determine and specify in the notice of such meeting. The annual meeting shall be held at such time and place, and upon such notice, as the Board of Directors shall determine, in the city of New York, New York, or such other city as the Board of Directors shall determine, except that, at least once every three years, the meeting shall be held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Section 2. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called for any purpose by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chairman, and any such special meeting shall be held at the place, day and time and upon such notice as the Board of Directors or such person shall determine.
Section 3. NOTICE OF MEETINGS. Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a notice of the meeting shall be given in any manner permitted by law which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the notice of any meeting shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Section 4. ORGANIZATION. Only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 11(a) of this Article One with respect to an annual meeting of stockholders and Section 11(b) of this Article One with respect to a special meeting of stockholders. The officer presiding at the meeting shall have the power and the duty to determine whether any business proposed to be brought before a meeting was proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-Laws and, if any business is not in compliance with such procedures, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded. The officer presiding at the meeting shall have authority on his or her own motion to adjourn the meeting from time to time without the approval of the stockholders who are present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote, whether or not constituting a quorum, and without notice other than announcement at the meeting. The Board of Directors may, to the extent not prohibited by law, adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meetings of stockholders as it deems appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with the rules and
regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, the officer presiding at the meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe rules, regulations and procedures and to do all acts as, in the judgment of such officer, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.
Section 5. VOTING. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation (including any certificate of designations with respect to any series of preferred stock), each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder that has voting power on the matter in question. Stockholders may vote at any meeting in person or may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy in any manner permitted by law. No proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by delivering to the Secretary of the Corporation a revocation of the proxy or a new proxy bearing a later date. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot.
Section 6. RECORD DATES.
(a) . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be the day immediately preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, the day immediately preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Record Date for Meetings of Stockholders
provided
however
(b) . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to any corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than 10 days after the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which such proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by
Record Date for Consents of Stockholders in Lieu of Meetings
 
the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(c) . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than 60 days prior to such action. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Record Date for Dividends, Distributions and Other Rights in Respect of Stock
Section 7. QUORUM; STOCKHOLDER ACTION. The presence, in person or by proxy, of stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes that all stockholders are entitled to cast shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of stockholders. Without limiting the power and authority of the officer presiding at a meeting, pursuant to Section 4 of this Article One, to adjourn such meeting without a vote of stockholders, in the absence of a quorum of the holders of all outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on a matter, the holders of such shares so present or represented may, by majority vote, adjourn such meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be so present or represented, without notice other than announcement at the meeting. When a quorum is once present, it shall not be broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholder from the meeting. Shares of its own capital stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; , , that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity. Unless otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, any action of the stockholders to be taken at a meeting of stockholders (other than election of Directors to the extent set forth in Section 8 of this Article One) may be taken by a majority of the votes cast with respect to the matter at any duly convened stockholders' meeting.
provided
however
Section 8. REQUIRED VOTE FOR DIRECTORS. In order to be elected as a director by the stockholders, a person must, except as otherwise provided by law, receive a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum shall be present.
Section 9. LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS. The Secretary or other officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to examination by any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the
 
meeting, either (at the election of the Corporation) (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is included in the notice of the meeting or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. The list of stockholders shall also be open to examination by any stockholder at the meeting (and for the duration thereof) as required by applicable law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the identity of stockholders entitled to examine the list of stockholders required by this Section 9, to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders or to execute written consents to corporate action without a meeting shall be conclusively determined by reference to the stock ledger.
Section 10. INSPECTOR OF ELECTIONS. The Corporation may, and shall if required by law, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
Section 11. NOTICE OF BUSINESS TO BE PRESENTED AT STOCKHOLDER MEETINGS.
(a) . The proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders may be made (x) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (y) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (z) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 11, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (z) of the preceding sentence, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action and the stockholder must have given timely notice in compliance with the following requirements in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation:
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
 
(i) To be timely, a stockholder's notice given pursuant to this Section 11 must be received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, addressed to the Secretary, not less than 90 calendar days or more than 120 calendar days before the anniversary date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to stockholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting; that the first such anniversary date occurring after the effective date of these By-Laws shall be deemed to be March 10, 2008. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the date of the annual meeting at which such business is to be presented has been changed by more than 30 calendar days from the date of the most recent previous annual meeting, a stockholder's notice shall be considered timely if so received by the Corporation (A) on or before the later of (1) 120 calendar days before the date of the annual meeting at which such business is to be presented or (2) 30 calendar days following the first public announcement by the Corporation of the date of such annual meeting and (B) not later than 15 calendar days prior to the scheduled mailing date of the Corporation's proxy materials for such annual meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
provided
(ii) A stockholder's notice given pursuant to this Section 11 shall set forth (A) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the proposal and the classes and numbers of shares of the Corporation's stock beneficially owned by such stockholder, (B) a representation that the stockholder is and will at the time of the annual meeting be a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting on the proposal(s) specified in the notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present such proposal(s), (C) a description of the business the stockholder intends to bring before the meeting, including the text of any proposal or proposals to be presented for action by the stockholders, (D) the name and address of any beneficial owner(s) of the Corporation's stock on whose behalf such business is to be presented and the class and number of shares beneficially owned by each such beneficial owner and (E) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder or any such beneficial owner.
(b) . The matters to be considered and brought before any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to only such matters as shall be brought properly before such meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of such special meeting.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
(c) . (i) For purposes of this Section, (A) "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and (B) "beneficial ownership" shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act or any successor rule.
General
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section
 
11. Nothing in this Section 11 shall be deemed to affect any rights of a stockholder to request inclusion of a proposal in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or any successor rule, or to present for action at an annual meeting any proposal so included.
Section 1. BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. Except as expressly limited by law, all corporate powers of the Corporation shall be vested in and may be exercised by the Board of Directors.
Section 2. NUMBER. Except as otherwise provided in Article Five, the Board of Directors shall consist of such number of Directors as shall be fixed from time to time by a majority vote of the entire Board of Directors.
Section 3. ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE. Each Director hereafter elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and has qualified, or until his or her death or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed or disqualified.
Section 4. NOMINATION. Nominations for the election of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or any officer of the Corporation to whom the Board of Directors or such committee shall have delegated such authority. Upon proper notice given to the Corporation, nominations may also be made by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors. Written notice of a stockholder's intent to make a nomination or nominations for Director must be given to the Corporation either by United States mail or personal delivery to the Secretary of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting, not less than 90 calendar days or more than 120 calendar days before the anniversary date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to stockholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting; that the first such anniversary date occurring after the effective date of these By-Laws shall be deemed to be March 10, 2008 and (ii) in the case of a special meeting at which directors are to be elected, not later than the close of business on the tenth calendar day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed and the day on which public announcement of the date of the meeting was made. Notwithstanding clause (i) of the preceding sentence, if the date of the annual meeting at which Directors are to be elected has been changed by more than 30 calendar days from the date of the most recent previous annual meeting, a stockholder's notice of intent to make a nomination or nominations for Director shall be considered timely if so received by the Corporation (A) on or before the later of (x) 120 calendar days before the date of the annual meeting at which such business is to be presented or (y) 30 calendar days following the first public announcement by the Corporation of the date of such annual meeting and (B) not later than 15 calendar days prior to the scheduled mailing date of the Corporation's proxy materials for such annual meeting. The notice must include: (1) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and a representation that the stockholder is and will at the time of the annual meeting be a holder of
provided
 
record of Common Stock entitled to vote at such annual meeting and that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to make the nomination or nominations set forth in the notice, (2) the name and address of the person or persons to be nominated for election as Director and such other information regarding the proposed nominee or nominees as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, (3) a description of all arrangements or undertakings between the stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder and (4) a consent signed by each of the proposed nominees agreeing to serve as a Director if so elected. The Board of Directors will be under no obligation to recommend a proposed nominee, even though the notice as set forth above has been given.
Section 5. VACANCIES. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification or removal from office or other cause, as well as any vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of Directors which occurs between annual meetings of the stockholders at which Directors are elected, shall be filled only by a majority vote of the remaining Directors then in office, whether or not a quorum, except that those vacancies resulting from removal from office by a vote of the stockholders may be filled by a vote of the stockholders at the same meeting at which such removal occurs. The Directors chosen to fill vacancies shall hold office for a term expiring at the end of the next annual meeting of stockholders. No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
Section 6. REMOVAL. Any Director may be removed from office at any time without assigning any cause by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
Section 7. EXCEPTIONS FOR PREFERENCE DIRECTORS. The provisions of Sections 4 through 6 of this Article Two shall not apply to any Director of the Corporation who may be elected under specified circumstances by holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation.
Section 8. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING. A meeting of the Board of Directors for the purpose of organizing the new Board, appointing the officers of the Corporation for the ensuing year and transacting other business shall be held without notice immediately following the annual election of Directors or as soon thereafter as is practicable at such time and place as the Secretary may designate.
Section 9. REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as the Board of Directors shall determine in its Board Policies adopted at its Organization Meeting each year or which are otherwise furnished to the Directors at such Organization Meeting, and if so determined or furnished, notice of such meetings need not be given, provided that at least 25 percent of such regular meetings (but if the number of such meetings is less than eight, no more than two per year) shall be held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
 
Section 10. SPECIAL MEETINGS. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman or the President may call a special meeting of the Board of Directors at any time. Any such officer or the Secretary shall call a special meeting of the Board upon the written request of any three members of the Board. A special meeting shall be held at such time and place as may be designated by the person or persons calling the meeting. The person or persons calling the meeting shall cause such notice of the meeting and of its purpose to be given as hereinafter provided in this Section 10, but, except as otherwise expressly provided by law or by these By-Laws, the purposes thereof need not be stated in such notice. Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of the special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each Director either (i) by mail or courier not less than 48 hours before the date of the meeting or (ii) by telephone, telegram or facsimile or electronic transmission, not less than 24 hours before the time of the meeting or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances (provided that notice of any meeting need not be given to any director who shall either submit, before or after such meeting, a waiver of notice or attend the meeting without protesting, at the beginning thereof, the lack of notice).
Section 11. QUORUM; BOARD ACTION. A majority of the entire Board of Directors (as defined in Article Five) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting. Unless otherwise provided by law, by these By-Laws or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, any action of the Board may be taken upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present at a duly convened meeting or upon the unanimous written consent of all Directors. In case at any meeting of the Board of Directors a quorum shall not be present, a majority of the members of the Board of Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.
Section 12. PARTICIPATION OTHER THAN BY ATTENDANCE. To the full extent permitted by law, any Director may participate in any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board of Directors of which he or she is a member by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting are able to hear each other.
Section 13. ACTION BY DIRECTORS WITHOUT A MEETING. Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing (which writing may include by electronic mail), and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be.
Section 14. COMPENSATION. Each Director who does not receive a salary from the Corporation or any affiliate thereof shall be entitled to such compensation as the Board shall determine for his or her service upon the Board of Directors and any of its committees, for his or her attendance at meetings of the Board and any of its committees and for his or her expenses incident thereto. Directors shall also be entitled to such compensation as the Board shall determine for services rendered to the Corporation in any capacity other than as Directors.
 
Section 15. RESIGNATION. Any Director may resign by submitting his or her resignation to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall become effective upon its submission or at any later time specified therein.
Section 1. APPOINTMENT; POWERS. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more standing or temporary committees consisting of two or more Directors. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member; provided, that during the Specified Period (as defined in Article Five), a Continuing BNY Director (as defined in Article Five) shall be appointed as an alternate for a member of the committee who is a Continuing BNY Director and a Continuing Mellon Director (as defined in Article Five) shall be appointed as an alternate for a member of the committee who is a Continuing Mellon Director. The Board of Directors may invest such committees with such powers and authority, subject to such conditions, as it may see fit, but no such committee shall have the power or authority with respect to the following matters: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing these By-Laws.
Section 2. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members an Executive Committee which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and may exercise all the authority of the Board of Directors during the intervals between the meetings thereof. All acts done and powers conferred by the Executive Committee shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done by or conferred under authority of the Board of Directors.
Section 3. AUDIT AND EXAMINING COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, none of whom shall be an officer of the Corporation, an Audit and Examining Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Audit and Examining Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Audit and Examining Committee.
Section 4. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATING COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, none of whom shall be an officer of the Corporation, a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall
 
have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
Section 5. HUMAN RESOURCES AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, none of whom shall be an officer of the Corporation, a Human Resources and Compensation Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
Section 6. RISK COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, a Risk Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Risk Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Risk Committee.
Section 7. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, a Corporate Responsibility Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Section 8. INTEGRATION COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, until the Integration Date (as defined in Article Five), the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members an Integration Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Integration Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Integration Committee.
Section 9. TERM; VACANCIES. Subject to the provisions of Article Five: (a) all committee members appointed by the Board of Directors shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors; and (b) the Board of Directors may fill any committee vacancy.
Section 10. ORGANIZATION. All committees shall determine their own organization, procedures and times and places of meeting, unless otherwise directed by the
 
Board of Directors and except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws. In the absence of a provision by the Board of Directors or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the entire authorized number of members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, the vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee, and in other respects each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to Article Two of these By-Laws.
Section 1. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation, shall report directly to the Board of Directors and shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general executive powers concerning all the operations and business of the Corporation and shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or as may be provided by law, and he or she may delegate to any other officer such executive and other powers and duties as he or she deems advisable.
Section 2. CHAIRMAN. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint one of its members to be Chairman. During the period beginning at the Effective Time and ending on the Succession Date (as such terms are defined in Article Five), the Chairman shall be designated "Executive Chairman", shall be an officer of the Corporation, and the Chief Compliance Officer of the Corporation and the Chief Auditor (for administrative purposes only) shall report to the Executive Chairman. In addition, until the Succession Date, the Executive Chairman shall be in charge of the integration of the Corporation following the Merger (as defined in Article Five) and shall report to the Integration Committee with respect to such responsibilities. The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall have and exercise such further powers as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or as may be provided by law. In the event of the absence or temporary disability of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at the applicable meetings of the stockholders and/or the Board of Directors during which such absence or disability exists and, in the event of the absence or temporary disability of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, any other officer of the Corporation or Director designated by the Board of Directors (provided that if such absence or temporary disability occurs during the Specified Period, only by an affirmative vote of at least 75 percent of the entire Board of Directors) shall preside at the applicable meetings of the stockholders and/or Board of Directors during which such absence or disability exists.
Section 3. PRESIDENT. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint a President. The President shall have and exercise such powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law.
 
Section 4. SENIOR OFFICERS. The Board of Directors may appoint, or the Chief Executive Officer may appoint, subject to confirmation by the Board of Directors, one or more senior officers of the Corporation, any of whom may be designated as Vice Chairmen or as executive, senior, group or administrative vice presidents or given any other descriptive titles, as the Board of Directors or the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall specify from time to time. Each senior officer shall have and exercise such powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 5. SECRETARY; ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. The Board of Directors shall appoint a Secretary. The Secretary shall act as secretary of all meetings of the stockholders, of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee, and he or she shall keep minutes of all such meetings. The Secretary shall give such notice of the meetings as is required by law or these By-Laws. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the minute book, stock record and transfer books and all other general corporate records. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the corporate seal and shall have the power to affix and attest the same, and he or she may delegate such power to one or more officers, employees or agents of the Corporation. The Secretary shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law. The Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries who shall assist the Secretary in the performance of his or her duties. At the direction of the Secretary or in the event of his or her absence or disability, an Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of the Secretary. Each Assistant Secretary shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary.
Section 6. TREASURER; ASSISTANT TREASURERS. The Board of Directors shall appoint a Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have and exercise such powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may appoint one or more Assistant Treasurers who shall assist the Treasurer in the performance of his or her duties. At the direction of the Treasurer or in the event of his or her absence or disability, an Assistant Treasurer shall perform the duties of the Treasurer. Each Assistant Treasurer shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Treasurer.
Section 7. CHIEF AUDITOR. Subject to any requirement of law or the rules of any exchange on which shares of Common Stock of the Corporation are listed, the Board of Directors shall appoint a Chief Auditor who shall be the chief auditing officer of the Corporation. He or she shall report to the Audit and Examining Committee and shall continuously examine the affairs of the Corporation under the general supervision and direction of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Auditing and Examining Committee or the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may also appoint other officers who shall perform such auditing duties as may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors or the Chief Auditor of the Corporation.
 
Section 8. OTHER OFFICERS. The Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the delegate of either of them may appoint or hire such additional officers of the Corporation, who may be designated as vice presidents, assistant vice presidents, officers, assistant officers, or given any other descriptive titles, and may hire such additional employees, as it or he or she may deem necessary or desirable to transact the business of the Corporation, and may establish the conditions of employment of any of the persons mentioned above and may fix their compensation and dismiss them. Such persons may have such descriptive titles as may be appropriate, and they shall, respectively, have and exercise such powers and duties as pertain to their several offices or as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, them by the appropriate appointing authority and as are not inconsistent with any provisions of these By-Laws.
Section 9. TENURE OF OFFICE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and the President shall each hold office for the year for which the Board of Directors was elected and until the appointment and qualification of his or her successor or until his or her earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. All other officers and employees shall hold office at the pleasure of the appropriate appointing authority. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, in particular subsection 2(b) of Article Five, the Board of Directors may remove any officer with or without cause at any time.
Section 10. COMPENSATION. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall fix the compensation of those officers appointed pursuant to Sections 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Article Four and of any other officers of the Corporation or any officers of any subsidiary of the Corporation that the Board of Directors shall deem appropriate, and it may award additional compensation to any officer or employee of the Corporation or any officer of any subsidiary for any year or years based upon the performance of that person during any such period, the success of the operations of the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof during any such period or any other reason that the Board of Directors shall deem appropriate. Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise direct, the Chief Executive Officer or his or her delegate shall fix the compensation of all other officers or employees of the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof.
Section 1. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply to this Article Five and otherwise as applicable in these By-Laws:
(a) "BNY" means The Bank of New York Company, Inc., a New York corporation.
(b) "Continuing BNY Directors" shall mean the Directors as of the Effective Time who were nominated to be Directors by the Board of Directors of BNY prior to the Effective Time and additional Directors who take office after the Effective Time who are nominated by the Continuing BNY Directors Committee pursuant to Section 3(a) of this Article Five.
 
(c) "Continuing BNY Directors Committee" shall mean the committee established by Section 3(b) of this Article Five.
(d) "Continuing Mellon Directors" shall mean the Directors as of the Effective Time who were nominated to be Directors by the Board of Directors of Mellon prior to the Effective Time and additional Directors who take office after the Effective Time who are nominated by a majority of the Continuing Mellon Directors Committee pursuant to Section 3(a) of this Article Five.
(e) "Continuing Mellon Directors Committee" shall mean the committee established by Section 3(c) of this Article Five.
(f) "Effective Time" has the meaning specified in the Merger Agreement.
(g) "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of Directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
(h) "Mellon" means Mellon Financial Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation.
(i) "Merger" has the meaning specified in the Merger Agreement.
(j) "Merger Agreement" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, by and between Mellon and BNY (as the same may be amended from time to time).
(k) "Specified Period" shall mean the period beginning at the Effective Time and ending on the thirty-six-month anniversary of the Effective Time.
(l) "Succession Date" has the meaning specified in Section 2(a) of this Article Five.
Section 2. CHAIRMAN SUCCESSION; CEO AND PRESIDENT. (a) Effective as of the Effective Time, Mr. Thomas Renyi shall become and serve as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Robert Kelly shall become and serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and Mr. Gerald Hassell shall become and serve as President of the Corporation. Mr. Robert Kelly shall be the successor to Mr. Thomas Renyi as Chairman of the Board of Directors, with such succession to become effective on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Effective Time or any such earlier date as of which Mr. Thomas Renyi ceases for any reason to serve in the position of Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors (the date of succession, the "Succession Date").
(b) During the Specified Period, any removal of, or failure to reelect (if such person is willing to serve), any of the individuals serving in the capacities set forth in subsection 2(a) above, any failure to appoint or elect Mr. Robert Kelly as Chairman of the Board of
 
Directors on the Succession Date, any amendment or modification to or termination of any employment or similar agreement with any of Messrs. Thomas Renyi, Robert Kelly or Gerald Hassell in effect as of the Effective Time, or any modification to any of their respective duties, authority or reporting relationships as set forth in Article Four, shall require the affirmative vote of at least 75 percent of the entire Board of Directors. In the event that during the Specified Period any of the individuals set forth in subsection 2(a) above shall be unable (whether by reason of death, permanent disability, retirement or otherwise) or unwilling to continue in such office, other than as expressly set forth in subsection 2(a) with respect to the succession of Mr. Robert Kelly as Chairman of the Board of Directors on the Succession Date, the vacancy created thereby shall be filled only by the affirmative vote of at least 75 percent of the entire Board of Directors.
Section 3. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. (a) During the period beginning on the Effective Time and ending on the Succession Date, the Board of Directors shall be comprised of 18 Directors, of which 10 shall be Continuing BNY Directors and eight shall be Continuing Mellon Directors. Beginning on the Succession Date and during the remainder of the Specified Period, the Board of Directors shall be comprised of 16 Directors, of which nine shall be Continuing BNY Directors (one of whom shall be the President of the Corporation, if he or she is then a member of the Board of Directors, and the remainder of whom shall consist of Directors who are not officers of the Corporation) and seven shall be continuing Mellon Directors (one of whom shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, if he or she is then a member of the Board of Directors, and the remainder of whom shall consist of Directors who are not officers of the Corporation). During the Specified Period, all vacancies on the Board of Directors created by the cessation of service of a Continuing BNY Director shall be filled by a nominee selected by the Continuing BNY Directors Committee and all vacancies on the Board of Directors created by the cessation of service of a Continuing Mellon Director shall be filled by a nominee selected by the Continuing Mellon Directors Committee. During the Specified Period, the Continuing BNY Directors Committee shall have the exclusive authority to nominate, on behalf of the Board of Directors, Directors for election at each annual meeting, or at any special meeting at which Directors are to be elected, to fill each seat previously held by a Continuing BNY Director. During the Specified Period, the Continuing Mellon Directors Committee shall have the exclusive authority to nominate, on behalf of the Board of Directors, Directors for election at each annual meeting, or at any special meeting at which Directors are to be elected, to fill each seat previously held by a Continuing Mellon Director.
(b) The Board of Directors shall constitute a Continuing BNY Directors Committee, which shall be comprised of all the Continuing BNY Directors. The Continuing BNY Directors Committee shall have all the power and may exercise all the authority of the Board of Directors to (i) fill all vacancies on the Board of Directors created by the cessation of service of a Continuing BNY Director and (ii) to nominate Directors for election at each annual meeting, or at any special meeting at which Directors are to be elected, to fill each seat previously held by a Continuing BNY Director. At the end of the Specified Period, the Continuing BNY Directors Committee shall be automatically disbanded.
(c) The Board of Directors shall constitute a Continuing Mellon Directors Committee, which shall be comprised of all the Continuing Mellon Directors. The Continuing Mellon Directors Committee shall have all the power and may exercise all the authority of the
 
Board of Directors to (i) fill all vacancies on the Board of Directors created by the cessation of service of a Continuing Mellon Director and (ii) to nominate Directors for election at each annual meeting, or at any special meeting at which Directors are to be elected, to fill each seat previously held by a Continuing Mellon Director. At the end of the Specified Period, the Continuing Mellon Directors Committee shall be automatically disbanded.
Section 4. LEAD DIRECTOR. During the period beginning at the Effective Time and ending on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Effective Time, the lead Director of the Corporation shall be a Continuing BNY Director selected by the Continuing BNY Directors Committee. During the period beginning on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Effective Time and ending on the thirty-six month anniversary of the Effective Time, the lead Director of the Corporation shall be a Continuing Mellon Director selected by the Continuing Mellon Directors Committee. Thereafter, the lead Director shall be a Director selected by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The Lead Director shall have such duties and responsibilities as may be set forth in the Corporation's Board policies from time to time.
Section 5. COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES. During the Specified Period, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee shall be comprised of at least five members with a number of Continuing Mellon Directors that is greater by one than the number of Continuing BNY Directors on the Committee, and a Continuing Mellon Director shall be the chair of each such Committee. During the Specified Period, each of the Executive Committee, Audit and Examining Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Risk Committee shall be comprised of at least five members with a number of Continuing BNY Directors that is greater by one than the number of Continuing Mellon Directors on the Committee and a Continuing BNY Director shall be the chair of each such Committee. During the Specified Period, the Corporate Responsibility Committee shall be comprised of at least four members, of whom two shall be Continuing BNY Directors and two shall be Continuing Mellon Directors. Until the end of the Specified Period or the date on which the Board of Directors determines to terminate the Integration Committee (which shall not be earlier than the Succession Date) (such termination date, the "Integration Date"), the Integration Committee shall be comprised of two Continuing Mellon Directors and two Continuing BNY Directors and a Continuing Mellon Director shall be the chair of such Committee. At the end of such period, the Integration Committee shall be disbanded.
Section 6. CORPORATE NAME; BRAND NAMES. (a) During the period beginning at the Effective Time and ending on the fifth anniversary of the Effective Time, the Board of Directors shall not recommend for adoption by the stockholders of the Corporation, or otherwise approve or effect, any change to the name of the Corporation or any of the brand names specified in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 without the unanimous affirmative vote of the entire Board of Directors.
(b) BRAND NAMES. The Corporation's product lines shall use the following brand names:
(i) the Asset Management product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Asset Management";
 
(ii) the Private Wealth Management product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Wealth Management";
(iii) the Custody product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Asset Servicing";
(iv) the Stock Transfer product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Stock Transfer";
(v) the Payments and Cash Management product lines shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon" within the United States and the brand name "Bank of New York Mellon" outside of the United States;
(vi) the Client Management product line shall use both the brand names "BNY Mellon" and "Bank of New York Mellon"; and
(vii) all other lines of business of the Corporation shall use the brand name "Bank of New York Mellon" under Bank of New York Mellon Securities Services.
Section 7. AMENDMENTS. During the Specified Period, the provisions of this Article Five (other than Section 6) and Section 1 of Article One, Section 9 of Article Two and Section 1 of Article Three may be modified, amended or repealed, and any By-Law provision or other resolution inconsistent with this Article Five (other than Section 6) or Section 1 of Article One, Section 9 of Article Two or Section 1 of Article Three may be adopted, or any such modification, amendment, repeal or inconsistent By-Law provisions or other resolutions recommended for adoption by the stockholders of the Corporation, only by an affirmative vote of at least 75 percent of the entire Board of Directors. Prior to the fifth anniversary of the Effective Time, the provisions of Section 6 of this Article Five may be modified, amended or repealed, and any By-Law provision or other resolution inconsistent with Section 6 may be adopted, or any such modification, amendment, repeal or inconsistent By-Law provisions or other resolutions recommended for adoption by the stockholders of the Corporation, only by the unanimous affirmative vote of the entire Board of Directors. In the event of any inconsistency between any other provision of these By-Laws and any provision of this Article Five, the provisions of this Article Five shall control.
Section 1. STOCK CERTIFICATES. Shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates or, to the extent provided in Sections 5 and 6 of this Article Six or as otherwise required by law, shall be uncertificated. Stock certificates shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe in accordance with law and the requirements of any exchange upon which such shares are listed. Such certificates shall be signed by the Chairman, President or Vice President, countersigned by the Secretary, the Treasurer or any other officer so authorized by the Board of Directors and permitted by law and sealed with the seal of the Corporation, and such signatures and seal may be facsimile or otherwise as permitted by law. In case any officer, registrar or transfer agent who has signed, or whose facsimile
 
signature has been placed upon, any stock certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, registrar or transfer agent, as the case may be, before the certificate is issued, as a result of death, resignation or otherwise, the certificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if the officer, registrar or transfer agent, as the case may be, had not ceased to be such at the date of the certificate's issue.
Section 2. TRANSFER OF STOCK. Except as otherwise provided by law, transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made only upon the books of the Corporation only by the registered holder thereof, or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary, or with a transfer agent duly appointed, and upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed, if such shares are represented by a certificate, and payment of all taxes thereon.
Section 3. LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or shares.
Section 4. HOLDERS OF RECORD. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat any person in whose name shares of stock of the Corporation stand on its books as the holder and owner in fact thereof for all purposes.
Section 5. UNCERTIFICATED SECURITIES. All or part of the shares of common stock of the Corporation may be uncertificated shares to the extent determined by the Board of Directors from time to time; however, in no event shall shares of common stock represented by a certificate be deemed uncertificated until the certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.
Section 6. DETERMINATIONS AS TO ISSUANCE, TRANSFER AND REGISTRATION. The Board of Directors (or any officer or other person as the Board of Directors may designate) from time to time may make such rules, policies and procedures as it, he or she may deem appropriate concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock of the Corporation, whether certificated or uncertificated.
Section 1. SIGNING AUTHORITY. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the President, any senior officer or any Vice President of the Corporation shall have full power and authority, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, under seal of the Corporation or otherwise, to execute, acknowledge and deliver any and all agreements, instruments or other documents relating to property or rights of all kinds held or owned by the Corporation or to the operation of the Corporation, all as may be incidental to the operation of
 
the Corporation and subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may impose. Any such agreement, instrument or document may also be executed, acknowledged and delivered in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, under seal of the Corporation or otherwise, by such other officers, employees or agents of the Corporation as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the delegate of either of them may from time to time authorize. In each such case, the authority so conferred shall be subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the delegate may impose. Any officer, employee or agent authorized hereunder to execute, acknowledge and deliver any such agreement, instrument or document is also authorized to cause the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary or any other authorized person to affix the seal of the Corporation thereto and to attest it.
Section 2. VOTING AND ACTING WITH RESPECT TO STOCK AND OTHER SECURITIES OWNED BY THE CORPORATION. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the President, any senior officer or any Vice President shall have the power and authority to vote and act with respect to all stock and other securities in any other corporation owned by this Corporation, subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may impose. Such power and authority may be conferred upon any other officer, employee or agent by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the delegate of either of them, and such authority may be general or may be limited to specific instances. Any person so authorized shall have the power to appoint an attorney or attorneys, with general power of substitution, as proxies for the Corporation with full power to vote and act on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such stock and other securities.
Section 1. FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Section 2. RECORDS. The Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws and the proceedings of all meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, and any other committee of the Board of Directors shall be recorded in appropriate minute books provided for this purpose or in any other information storage device (whether in paper or electronic form), provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable period of time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same. The minutes of each meeting shall be signed by the Secretary or other person acting as secretary of the meeting.
Section 3. SEAL. The Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe the form of a suitable corporate seal.
Section 4. NUMBER. Any reference in these By-Laws to the singular includes the plural and vice versa unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
Section 1. AMENDMENTS. Except as otherwise provided in Article Five of these By-Laws or in Article SIXTH, Section (b) of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws may be amended, altered and repealed, and new By-Laws may be adopted, either by action of the stockholders or (except as otherwise provided by law or these By-Laws) by action of the Board of Directors.
Section 2. INSPECTION. A copy of the By-Laws, with all amendments thereto, shall at all times be kept in a convenient place at the principal office of the Corporation and shall be open for inspection to all stockholders during normal business hours.
 

Exhibit 4.1
THE CORPORATION WILL FURNISH TO ANY STOCKHOLDER WITHOUT CHARGE, UPON REQUEST TO THE TRANSFER AGENT, A STATEMENT OF THE POWERS, DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES AND RELATIVE, PARTICIPATING, OPTIONAL OR OTHER SPECIAL RIGHTS OF THE SHARES OF EACH CLASS OR SERIES OF STOCK OF THE CORPORATION AUTHORIZED TO BE ISSUED AND THE QUALIFICATIONS, LIMITATIONS OR RESTRICTIONS OF SUCH PREFERENCES AND/OR RIGHTS.
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
This Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among The Bank of New York Company, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York having its principal executive office at One Wall Street, New York, New York 10286 (the "Company"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (f/k/a Bankers Trust Company), a New York banking corporation having its principal office at 60 Wall Street, 27
th
Floor, New York, New York 10005 (the "Trustee").
The Company executed and delivered to the Trustee that certain indenture, dated as of July 18, 1991 (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (the "Securities") may be issued from time to time by the Company. All capitalized terms used in this Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 801(1) of the Indenture provides that the Company shall not consolidate with, or merge into, any other Person, unless the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all of the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Section 901(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by the successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities.
Mellon Financial Corporation and the Company have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will, upon the consummation of the Merger, assume the Outstanding Securities (defined below) and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Company.
The Company desires and has requested the Trustee to join with it in the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture to evidence the assumption, upon the consummation of the Merger, of the Outstanding Securities and the obligations of the Company under the Indenture by Newco.
 
The following series of Securities (the "Outstanding Securities") have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has furnished the Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
All actions necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, Newco and the Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
 
SECTION 1.1. Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
SECTION 2.1. In accordance with Section 802 of the Indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Company shall be discharged from all covenants and obligations under the Indenture and the Outstanding Securities.
Discharge of the Company from Obligations.
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Upon the consummation of the Merger, in accordance with Article Eight of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture with the same effect as if it had been named as the Company therein and the Company shall be discharged of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
SECTION 3.2. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit, legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
SECTION 3.7. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.8. The Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.9.
This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
SECTION 3.10. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
 
 
 
This Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among The Bank of New York Company, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York having its principal executive office at One Wall Street, New York, New York 10286 (the "Company"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, a New York banking corporation having its principal office at One M&T Plaza, 7
th
Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203 (as successor trustee to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, the "Trustee").
The Company executed and delivered to the Trustee that certain indenture, dated as of October 1, 1993 (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (the "Securities") may be issued from time to time by the Company. All capitalized terms used in this Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 801(1) of the Indenture provides that the Company shall not consolidate with, or merge into, any other Person, unless the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all of the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Section 901(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by such successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities.
Mellon Financial Corporation and the Company have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will, upon the consummation of the Merger, assume the Outstanding Securities (defined below) and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Company.
The Company desires and has requested the Trustee to join with it in the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture to evidence the assumption, upon the consummation of the Merger, of the Outstanding Securities and the obligations of the Company under the Indenture by Newco.
The following series of Securities (the "Outstanding Securities") have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has furnished the Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
All actions necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, Newco and the Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.1. Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on the Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
SECTION 2.1. In accordance with Section 802 of the Indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Company shall be relieved of all covenants and obligations under the Indenture and the Outstanding Securities.
Release of the Company from Obligations.
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Upon the consummation of the Merger, in accordance with Article Eight of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture with the same effect as if it had been named as the Company therein and thereafter the Company shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
 
SECTION 3.2. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit, legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.7. The Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.8.
This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
SECTION 3.9. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.4
 
 
 
 
This Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among The Bank of New York Company, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York having its principal executive office at One Wall Street, New York, New York 10286 (the "Company"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, a New York banking corporation having its principal office at One M&T Plaza, 7
th
Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203 (as successor trustee to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, the "Trustee").
The Company executed and delivered to the Trustee that certain junior subordinated indenture, dated as of December 25, 1996 (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (the "Securities") may be issued from time to time by the Company. All capitalized terms used in this Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 8.1(1) of the Indenture provides that the Company shall not consolidate with, or merge into, any other Person, unless the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all of the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Section 9.1(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by the successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities.
Mellon Financial Corporation and the Company have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will, upon the consummation of the Merger, assume the Outstanding Securities (defined below) and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Company.
The Company desires and has requested the Trustee to join with it in the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture to evidence the assumption, upon the consummation of the Merger, of the Outstanding Securities and the obligations of the Company under the Indenture by Newco.
 
The following series of Securities (the "Outstanding Securities") have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding:
 
 
 
The Company has furnished the Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
All actions necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, Newco and the Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.1. Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on the Outstanding Securities and the performance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
SECTION 2.1. In accordance with Section 8.2 of the Indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Company shall be discharged from all covenants and obligations under the Indenture and the Outstanding Securities.
Discharge of the Company from Obligations.
 
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Upon the consummation of the Merger, in accordance with Article Eight of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture with the same effect as if it had been named as the Company therein and the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
SECTION 3.2. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit, legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.7. The Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.8.
This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
SECTION 3.9. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.5
 
 
 
 
This Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among The Bank of New York Company, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York having its principal executive office at One Wall Street, New York, New York 10286 (the "Company"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, a New York banking corporation having its principal office at One M&T Plaza, 7th Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203 (as successor trustee to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, the "Trustee").
The Company executed and delivered to the Trustee that certain indenture, dated as of December 1, 1996 (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (the "Securities") may be issued from time to time by the Company. All capitalized terms used in this Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 8.1(1) of the Indenture provides that the Company shall not consolidate with, or merge into, any other Person, unless the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all of the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Section 9.1(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by the successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities.
Mellon Financial Corporation and the Company have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will, upon the consummation of the Merger, assume the Outstanding Securities (defined below) and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Company.
The Company desires and has requested the Trustee to join with it in the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture to evidence the assumption, upon the consummation of the Merger, of the Outstanding Securities and the obligations of the Company under the Indenture by Newco.
 
The following Securities (the "Outstanding Securities") have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding: 7.78% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures, Series A, issued December 1, 1996.
The Company has furnished the Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
All actions necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, Newco and the Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.1. Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on the Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
SECTION 2.1. In accordance with Section 8.2 of the Indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Company shall be discharged from all covenants and obligations under the Indenture and the Outstanding Securities.
Discharge of the Company from Obligations.
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same
 
instrument. Upon the consummation of the Merger, in accordance with Article Eight of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture with the same effect as if it had been named as the Company therein and the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
SECTION 3.2. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit, legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.7. The Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.8.
This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
SECTION 3.9. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.6
 
 
 
 
Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among Mellon Funding Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania having its principal executive office at One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258 (the "Company"), Mellon Financial Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania having its principal executive office at One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258 (the "Guarantor"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation having its principal office at One M&T Plaza, 5th Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203 (as successor trustee to The Bank of New York, as successor to JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association, as successor to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association, the "Trustee").
The Company and the Guarantor executed and delivered to the Trustee a certain indenture, dated as of May 2, 1988 (the "Base Indenture"), the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 29, 1990 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 12, 2000 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (the "Securities"), guaranteed by the Guarantor (the "Guarantees"), may be issued from time to time by the Company. The Base Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture is herein called the "Indenture." All capitalized terms used in this Third Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 903(1) of the Indenture provides that nothing shall prevent any consolidation or merger of the Guarantor with or into any other corporation or corporations, provided that if the Guarantor merges into another corporation, the corporation into which the Guarantor is merged must be organized under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the Guarantees endorsed on the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Guarantor.
Section 1001(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company and the Guarantor, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another Person as the Guarantor and the assumption by such successor of the covenants of the Guarantor in the Indenture and the Guarantees.
The Guarantor and The Bank of New York Company, Inc. have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 3, 2006 as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will assume, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities (defined below) and the performance of every covenant of the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Guarantor.
 
The Company and the Guarantor desire and have requested the Trustee to join with them in the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of amending the Indenture to evidence the assumption of the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the obligations of the Guarantor under the Indenture by Newco.
The following series of Securities (the "Outstanding Securities") with Guarantees endorsed thereon have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding: 3 1/4% Senior Notes due April 1, 2009, 5.20% Senior Notes due 2014 and the Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014.
The Company has furnished the Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution of this Third Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this Third Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this Third Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
The Guarantor has furnished the Trustee with an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate each stating that the Guarantees remain in full force and effect.
All actions necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, the Guarantor, Newco and the Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.1. Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Guarantor to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
 
SECTION 2.1. In accordance with Section 904 of the Indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantor shall be relieved of all covenants and obligations under the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the Indenture.
Release of the Guarantor from Obligations.
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Upon the consummation of the Merger, in accordance with Article Nine of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named therein as the Guarantor and thereafter the Guarantor shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Guarantees.
SECTION 3.2. This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this Third Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Third Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.7. The Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.8.
This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
SECTION 3.9. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.7
 
 
 
 
First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among Mellon Funding Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania having its principal executive office at One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258 (the "Company"), Mellon Financial Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania having its principal executive office at One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258 (the "Guarantor"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, a New York banking corporation having its principal office at One M&T Plaza, 7th Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203 (as successor trustee to The Bank of New York, as successor to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, successor by merger to First Interstate Bank of California, the "Trustee").
The Company and the Guarantor executed and delivered to the Trustee that certain indenture, dated as of August 25, 1995 (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured subordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (the "Securities"), guaranteed on a subordinated basis by the Guarantor (the "Guarantees"), may be issued from time to time by the Company. All capitalized terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 903(1) of the Indenture provides that nothing shall prevent any consolidation or merger of the Guarantor with or into any other corporation or corporations, provided that if the Guarantor merges into another corporation, the corporation into which the Guarantor is merged must be organized under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the Guarantees endorsed on the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Guarantor.
Section 1001(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company and the Guarantor, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another Person as the Guarantor and the assumption by such successor of the covenants of the Guarantor in the Indenture and the Guarantees.
The Guarantor and The Bank of New York Company, Inc. have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 3, 2006 as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will assume, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities (defined below) and the performance of every covenant of the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Guarantor.
The Company and the Guarantor desire and have requested the Trustee to join with them in the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of amending the Indenture to provide for the assumption of the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the obligations of the Guarantor under the Indenture by Newco.
 
The following series of Securities (the "Outstanding Securities"), with Guarantees endorsed thereon, have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding: 6.70% Subordinated Debentures Notes Due March 1, 2008 and 6 3/8% Senior Notes due February 15, 2010.
The Company has furnished the Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution of this First Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this First Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this First Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
The Guarantor has furnished the Trustee with an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate each stating that the Guarantees remain in full force and effect.
All actions necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, the Guarantor, Newco and the Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.1. Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Guarantor to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture.
SECTION 2.1. In accordance with Section 904 of the Indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantor shall be relieved of all covenants and obligations under the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the Indenture.
Release of the Guarantor from Obligations.
 
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Upon the consummation of the Merger, in accordance with Article Nine of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named therein as the Guarantor and thereafter the Guarantor shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Guarantees.
SECTION 3.2. This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This First Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.7. The Indenture as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.8.
This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
SECTION 3.9. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.8
 
 
 
 
 
Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among Mellon Funding Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania having its principal executive office at One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258 (the "Company"), Mellon Financial Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania having its principal executive office at One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258 (the "Guarantor"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), and Union Bank of California, National Association (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, formerly known as Bank One Trust Company, National Association), a California bank having its principal office at 350 California Street, San Francisco, California 94104, as Trustee (the "Trustee").
The Company and the Guarantor executed and delivered to the Trustee that certain indenture, dated as of June 12, 2000 (the "Base Indenture"), the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 30, 2001 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 5, 2004 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured subordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company (the "Securities"), guaranteed on a subordinated basis by the Guarantor (the "Guarantees"), may be issued from time to time by the Company. The Base Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture is herein called the "Indenture." All capitalized terms used in this Third Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 903(1) of the Indenture provides that nothing shall prevent any consolidation or merger of the Guarantor with or into any other corporation or corporations, provided that if the Guarantor merges into another corporation, the corporation into which the Guarantor is merged must be organized under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the Guarantees endorsed on the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Guarantor.
Section 1001(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Guarantor and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another person as the Guarantor and the assumption by the successor of the covenants of the Guarantor in the Indenture and the Guarantees.
The Guarantor and The Bank of New York Company, Inc. have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 3, 2006 as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
 
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will assume, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities (defined below) and the performance of every covenant of the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Guarantor.
The Company and the Guarantor desire and have requested the Trustee to join with them in the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of amending the Indenture to provide for the assumption, upon consummation of the Merger, of the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the obligations of the Guarantor under the Indenture by Newco.
The following series of Securities (the "Outstanding Securities"), with Guarantees endorsed thereon, have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding: 6.40% Subordinated Notes Due May 14, 2011, 5.00% Subordinated Notes Due December 1, 2014, and 5.50% Subordinated Notes due November 15, 2018.
The Company has furnished the Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution of this Third Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this Third Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this Third Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
The Guarantor has furnished the Trustee with an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate each stating that the Guarantees remain in full force and effect.
All actions necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, the Guarantor, Newco and the Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.1. . Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Guarantor to be performed or observed.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture
 
SECTION 2.1. . In accordance with Section 904 of the indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Guarantor shall be discharged from all covenants and obligations under the Guarantees endorsed on the Outstanding Securities and the Indenture.
Discharge of the Guarantor from Obligations
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Upon the execution and delivery of the Third Supplemental Indenture, in accordance with Article Nine of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named therein as the party of the first part and the Guarantor shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Guarantees.
SECTION 3.2. This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this Third Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Third Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This Third Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.7. The Indenture as supplemented by this Third Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
 
SECTION 3.8.
This Third Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
SECTION 3.9. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.9
 
 
 
 
This Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 29, 2007, among Mellon Financial Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania having its principal executive office at One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258 (the "Company"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newco"), The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation having its principal executive office at 101 Barclay Street, 8W, New York, New York, 10286, not in its individual capacity but solely as trustee (the "Trustee") U.S. Bank National Association, not in its individual capacity but solely as series trustee (the "Series C Trustee"), and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, a New York banking corporation having its principal office at One M&T Plaza, 7
th
Floor, Buffalo, New York 14203, not in its individual capacity but solely as series trustee (the "Series L Trustee").
The Company executed and delivered to the Trustee that certain junior subordinated indenture, dated as of December 3, 1996 (the "Base Indenture"), pursuant to which one or more series of unsecured junior subordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company, (the "Securities") may be issued from time to time by the Company, and to the Series C Trustee that certain Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 19, 2006 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), under which the Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures, Series C were issued, and to the Series L Trustee that certain Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 19, 2007 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), under which the Remarketable 6.244% Junior Subordinated Notes, Series L were issued. The Base Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture is herein called the "Indenture." All capitalized terms used in this Third Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Section 8.1 of the Indenture provides that the Company shall not consolidate with, or merge into, any other Person, unless the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume by a supplemental indenture, in form satisfactory to Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all of the Securities and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed.
Section 9.1(1) of the Indenture provides that a supplemental indenture may be entered into by the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by such successor of the covenants of the Company contained in the Indenture and in the Securities.
The Company and The Bank of New York Company, Inc. have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 3, 2006 as amended and restated on February 23, 2007 and March 30, 2007, pursuant to which they have agreed to merge (the "Merger") with and into Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation which will survive the Merger.
 
Pursuant to the Merger, Newco will, upon the consummation of the Merger, assume the due and punctual payment of the principal of and any interest on all the Outstanding Securities (as defined below) and the performance of every covenant in the Indenture to be observed or performed by the Company.
The Company desires and has requested that each of the Trustee, Series C Trustee and Series L Trustee join with it in the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture for the purpose of amending the Indenture to provide for the assumption, upon the consummation of the Merger, of the Outstanding Securities and the obligations under the Indenture by Newco.
The following series of Securities (the "Outstanding Securities") have been issued prior to the execution hereof and remain outstanding: (i) 6.369% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2066; and (ii) 6.244% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2043.
The Company has furnished each of the Trustee, Series C Trustee and Series L Trustee with (i) an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Merger and the execution and delivery of this Third Supplemental Indenture comply with the Indenture, (ii) an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture with respect to this Third Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and (iii) a copy of the resolutions of its Board of Directors, certified by its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, pursuant to which this Third Supplemental Indenture has been authorized.
All actions necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, Newco, the Trustee, the Series C Trustee and the Series L Trustee and a valid amendment of and supplement to the Indenture have been taken.
For and in consideration of the premises and intending to be legally bound hereby, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 1.1. . Newco hereby fully and unconditionally agrees to assume, and hereby does assume, effective upon the consummation of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (including any Additional Interest) on the Outstanding Securities and the performance and observance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed and (b) responsibility and liability for the actions and omissions of the Company under the Indenture prior to the Effective Time ("Prior Acts"). Newco hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Trustee, the Series C Trustee and the Series L Trustee for any and all claims, liabilities, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred or suffered by the Trustee, the Series C Trustee and the Series L Trustee, as the case maybe, as the result of any Prior Acts.
Assumption of Obligations under Indenture
 
SECTION 2.1. . In accordance with Section 8.2 of the Indenture, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Company shall be discharged from all covenants and obligations under the Outstanding Securities and the Indenture.
Discharge of the Company from Obligations
SECTION 3.1. All the provisions of this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. Upon the consummation of the Merger, in accordance with Article VIII of the Indenture, Newco shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture with the same effect as if it had been named as the Company therein and thereafter the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities.
SECTION 3.2. This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 3.3. In case any provision in this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 3.4. Nothing in this Third Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit, legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Third Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 3.5. This Third Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
SECTION 3.6. All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 3.7. The Indenture as supplemented by this Third Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.8.
This Third Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
SECTION 3.9. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release
NEW YORK, July 2, 2007  The Bank of New York Company, Inc. (NYSE: BK) and Mellon Financial Corporation (NYSE: MEL) announced today they have completed their merger to form The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, creating the global leader in asset management and securities servicing. The new company trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "BK."
The company ranks as one of the largest global asset managers with more than $1 trillion in assets under management and is the world's leading asset servicer with more than $18 trillion in assets under custody or administration.
"Today we are establishing a global financial services growth company without peer," said Robert P. Kelly, chief executive officer of the company. "We have leadership positions across a range of high-growth businesses, unmatched product breadth, and the ability to accelerate our global expansion through strategic investments. With exceptional service and performance as the hallmarks of the new company, we will foster a culture that rewards winning through relentless client focus, teamwork and execution."
In addition to asset management and securities servicing, the company is the leading provider of corporate trust, depositary receipts, clearing and shareowner services. It ranks as a top 10 U.S. wealth manager with more than $160 billion in client assets and is a leading U.S. cash management and global payments provider. The company has a balanced business mix, with diversified revenues and earnings across all regions of the world and a presence in the fastest-growing segments of asset management and securities servicing.
"The Bank of New York Mellon is positioned to provide superior service and value to our clients and deliver faster growth to our shareholders," said Thomas A. Renyi, executive chairman of the company. "We have closed the merger on target and are now ready to execute a disciplined, thoughtful integration of our capabilities to meet the current and future demands of our clients."
The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial announced plans to merge in December 2006, and shareholders of each company overwhelmingly approved the transaction in May. The company has annual revenues of approximately $13 billion and pro-forma market capitalization approximately $50 billion. The company is headquartered in New York and has 40,000 employees around the world.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients move and manage their financial assets, operating in 37 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has more than $18 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $1 trillion in assets under management and $11 trillion in assets under trusteeship. Additional information is available at www.bnymellon.com.
The information presented in this press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, statements with respect to the merger of The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial, including expectations with respect to the merged companies, integration and operations after the merger, future growth and delivery of faster growth to shareholders. These statements are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The following risks, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements: (1) the businesses of The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial may not be integrated successfully or the integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; (2) the combined company may not realize, to the extent or at the time we expect, revenue synergies and cost savings from the transaction; (3) revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected as a result of losses of customers or other reasons; and (4) deposit attrition, operating costs, customer loss and business disruption following the transaction, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, may be greater than expected. Additional factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and The Bank of New York Company, Inc.'s and Mellon Financial's historical reports (such as Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Exhibit 99.2
Management Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting
The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting that is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements and related notes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
The Company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
 
 
 
Any system of internal control, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time. Accordingly, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changed conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, the Company's management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment, management believes that the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2006.
Management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered accounting firm, as stated in their attestation report on the following page.
AUDITOR'S ATTESTATION REPORT
To The Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, that The Bank of New York Company, Inc. (the "Company") maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because management's assessment and our audit were conducted to also meet the reporting requirements of Section 112 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA), management's assessment and our audit of The Bank of New York Company Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting included controls over the preparation of financial statements in accordance with the instructions for the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies (Form FRY-9C). A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assessment that The Bank of New York Company, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria
.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 and our report dated February 21, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
New York, New York
February 21, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies
The Bank of New York Company, Inc. (the "Company") provides a complete range of banking and other financial services to corporations and individuals worldwide through its business segments: Institutional Services, Private Bank and BNY Asset Management, and Corporate and Other. "Business Segment Accounting Principles", "Segment Financial Data", and "International Financial Data" are incorporated from the Business Segment Review section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Company's Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). There were no major customers from whom revenues were individually material to the Company's performance.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Amounts subject to significant estimates and assumptions are items such as the allowance for loan losses and lending-related commitments, goodwill and intangibles, pension and postretirement obligations, and the fair value of financial instruments. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Qualifying special-purpose entities (QSPEs) are not consolidated. A VIE is consolidated if the Company will absorb a majority of the expected losses of the VIE, receive the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE or both. The results of operations of businesses purchased are included from the date of acquisition. Equity investments of less than a majority but at least 20% ownership are accounted for by the equity method and classified as other assets. The Company's most significant equity method investment is its 20.2% share in Wing Hang, with a carrying value of $241 million.
Fee and Net Interest Revenue
Fees and other revenue are recorded when earned based on contractual terms. Fees are accrued based on estimates, or are recognized as transactions occur or services are provided and collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue on interest-earning assets and expense on interest-bearing liabilities is recognized based on the effective yield of the related financial instrument.
Securities
Debt and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are carried at fair value, except for those equity securities whose fair value cannot be readily determined. These securities are carried at cost. For securities carried at fair value, the after-tax effect of net unrealized gains and losses is reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity.
Securities classified as trading assets are carried at fair value, with net unrealized holding gains and losses recognized currently in income. Debt securities, which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity, are classified as held-to-maturity and stated at cost, adjusted for discount accreted and premium amortized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of debt and equity securities are determined by the specific identification and average cost methods, respectively.
The Company conducts quarterly reviews to identify and evaluate investments that have indications of possible impairment. An investment in a debt or equity security is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost and the decline is considered other-than-temporary. The Company examines various factors when determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary. Examples of factors that may indicate that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level that, in management's judgment, is adequate to absorb probable losses associated with specifically identified loans, as well as estimated probable credit losses inherent in the remainder of the credit portfolio at the balance sheet date. Management's judgment includes the following factors, among others: risks of individual credits; past experience; the volume, composition, and growth of the credit portfolio; and economic conditions.
The Company conducts a quarterly portfolio review to determine the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses. All commercial exposures over $1 million are assigned to specific risk categories. Smaller commercial and consumer exposures are evaluated on a pooled basis and assigned to specific risk categories. Following this review, senior management of the Company analyzes the results and determines the allowance for credit losses. The Company's Board of Directors reviews the allowance at the end of each quarter.
The portion of the allowance for credit losses allocated to impaired loans (nonaccrual commercial loans over $1 million) is measured by the difference between their recorded value and fair value. Fair value is determined by one of the following: present value of the expected future cash flows from borrowers, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral. See "Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses" and "Critical Accounting Policies" in the MD&A section for additional information.
Nonperforming Assets
Commercial loans are placed on nonaccrual status when collateral is insufficient and principal or interest is past due 90 days or more, or when there is reasonable doubt that interest or principal will be collected. Accrued interest is usually reversed when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. Interest payments received on nonaccrual loans may be recognized as income or applied to principal depending upon management's judgment. Nonaccrual loans are restored to accrual status when principal and interest are current or they become fully collateralized. Consumer loans are not classified as nonperforming assets, but are charged off and interest accrued is suspended based upon an established delinquency schedule determined by product. Real estate acquired in satisfaction of loans is carried in other assets at the lower of the recorded investment in the property or fair value minus estimated costs to sell.
Leveraged Leases
Significant assumptions involving cash flows, residual values and income tax rates affect the level of revenue associated with leases. Gains and losses on residual values of leased equipment sold are included in other income. Considering the nature of these leases and the number of significant assumptions, there is risk associated with the income recognition on these leases should any of the assumptions change materially in future periods.
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative contracts, such as futures contracts, forwards, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and options and similar products used in trading activities, are recorded at fair value. The Company does not recognize gains or losses at the inception of derivative transactions if the fair value is not determined based upon observable market transactions and market data. Gains and losses are included in foreign exchange and other trading activities in noninterest income. Unrealized gains and losses are reported on a gross basis in trading account assets and trading liabilities, after taking into consideration master netting agreements.
The Company enters into various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes primarily as part of its asset/liability management ("ALM") process. These derivatives are designated as fair value and cash flow hedges of certain assets and liabilities when the Company enters into the derivative contracts. Gains and losses associated with fair value hedges are recorded in income as well as any change in the value of the related hedged item. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. If a derivative used in ALM does not qualify as a hedge, it is marked-to-market and the gain or loss is included in net interest income.
The Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Company formally assesses, both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective and whether those derivatives are expected to remain highly effective in future periods. The Company evaluates ineffectiveness in terms of amounts that could impact a hedge's ability to qualify for hedge accounting and the risk that the hedge could result in more than a de minimus amount of ineffectiveness. At inception, the potential causes of ineffectiveness related to each of its hedges is assessed to determine if the Company can expect the hedge to be highly effective over the life of the transaction and to determine the method for evaluating effectiveness on an ongoing basis. Recognizing that changes in the value of derivatives used for hedging or the value of hedged items could result in significant ineffectiveness, the Company has processes in place designed to identify and evaluate such changes when they occur. Quarterly, the Company performs a quantitative effectiveness assessment and records any ineffectiveness.
The Company utilizes interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. For hedges of fixed-rate loans, asset-backed securities, deposits and long-term debt, the hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a fixed-rate item and is a fair value hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to eliminate fair value variability by converting fixed-rate interest payments to LIBOR.
The fixed rate loans hedged generally have an original maturity of 6 to 12 years and are not callable. These loans are hedged with "pay fixed rate, receive variable rate" swaps with similar notional amounts, maturities, and fixed rate coupons. The swaps are not callable. At December 31, 2006, $43 million of loans were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $43 million.
The securities hedged generally have a weighted average life of 10 years and are callable six months prior to maturity. These securities are hedged with pay fixed rate, receive variable rate swaps of like maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are callable six months prior to maturity. At December 31, 2006, $228 million of securities were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $228 million.
The fixed rate deposits hedged generally have original maturities of 1 to 12 years (44% are one year deposits) and, except for three deposits, are not callable. These deposits are hedged with receive fixed rate, pay variable rate swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are not callable except for the three that hedge the callable deposits. At December 31, 2006, $1,255 million of deposits were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $1,255 million.
 
The fixed rate long-term debt hedged generally has an original maturity of 4 to 30 years. The Company issues both callable and non-callable debt. The non-callable debt is hedged with simple interest rate swaps similar to those described for deposits. Callable debt is hedged with callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt. At December 31, 2006, $5,802 million of debt was hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $5,838 million.
In addition to the fair value hedges discussed above, the Company has three cash flow hedges utilizing interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in expected future cash flows attributable to floating rates on an interest-only strip, a deposit and a long-term debt issue. The hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging future variable interest payments and is a cash flow hedge, that the hedge exposure is the variability in interest payments, and that the strategy is to eliminate variability by converting floating rate interest payments to fixed payments. For cash flow hedges the interest rate swap is marked-to-market with the changes in value recorded in other comprehensive income. The amount recognized as other comprehensive income for the cash flow hedge is reclassified to net interest income as interest is realized on the hedged item.
The Company has a $264 million interest-only strip of which $200 million is hedged with a $200 million receive fixed rate, pay variable rate interest rate swap to remove the variability in the cash flows received from the security. Payments on the interest-only strip are related to a money market fund. During the next twelve months, net gains of $3 million (pre-tax) included in other comprehensive income are expected to be reclassified to income.
The deposit hedged has a principal amount of $275 million and has a LIBOR-based floating rate and an 18 month original maturity. The deposit is hedged with a receive LIBOR, pay fixed rate swap with the same maturity and interest payment dates as the deposit to eliminate the variability in interest payment received on the deposit. During the next twelve months, net losses of less than $1 million (pre-tax) included in other comprehensive income are expected to be reclassified to income.
The long-term debt hedged has a principal amount of $400 million and has a LIBOR-based floating rate and a 2 year original maturity. The debt is hedged with a receive LIBOR, pay fixed rate swap with the same maturity and interest payment dates as the debt to eliminate the variability in interest payment received on the debt. During the next twelve months, net losses of less than $1 million (pre-tax) included in other comprehensive income are expected to be reclassified to income.
In addition, the Company enters into foreign exchange hedges. The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts with maturities of 12 months or less to hedge its Sterling and Euro foreign exchange exposure with respect to forecasted expense transactions in non-U.S. entities which have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. As of December 31, 2006, the hedged forecasted foreign currency transactions and linked foreign exchange forward hedges were $107 million with $4 million (pre-tax) gains recorded in other comprehensive income. These gains are expected to be reclassified to expense over the next twelve months.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of the Company's investments in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts have a maturity of less than six months. The derivatives employed are designated as net investment hedges of changes in value of the Company's foreign investment due to exchange rates, such that changes in value of the forward exchange contracts offset the changes in value of the
 
foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The change in fair market value of these contracts is deferred and reported within accumulated translation adjustments in shareholders' equity, net of tax effects. At December 31, 2006, foreign exchange contracts, with notional amounts totaling $1,744 million, were designated as hedges of corresponding amounts of net investments.
The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when it determines that a derivative is no longer an effective hedge, the derivative expires or is sold, or management discontinues the derivative's hedge designation. Subsequent gains and losses on these derivatives are included in foreign exchange and other trading activities.
Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was recorded in income as follows:
 
Other includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges.
Tax
The Company records current tax liabilities or assets through charges or credits to the current tax provision for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the current year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Interest and penalties related to income taxes are recorded as income tax expense.
Premises, Equipment, and Internal-Use Software
Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the owned asset and, for leasehold improvements, over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement. For owned and capitalized assets, estimated useful lives range from 3 to 50 years. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized to operating expense over their identified useful life. For internal-use computer software, the Company capitalizes qualifying costs incurred during the application development stage. The resulting asset is amortized using the straight-line method over the expected life, which is generally 5 years. All other costs incurred in connection with an internal-use software project are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill and other Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Other intangible assets represent purchased assets that also lack physical substance but can be distinguished from
 
goodwill because of contractual or other legal rights or because the asset is capable of being sold or exchanged either on its own or in combination with a related contract, asset, or liability. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. All other intangible assets which have finite useful lives are amortized over those periods, which range from 3 to 18 years.
Stock Options
On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value method of accounting for its options under SFAS 123 as amended by SFAS 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosure." SFAS 148 permits three different methods of adopting fair value: (1) the prospective method, (2) the modified prospective method, and (3) the retroactive restatement method. Under the prospective method, options issued after January 1, 2003, are expensed while all options granted prior to January 1, 2003, are accounted for under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB 25"), "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", using the intrinsic value method. Consistent with industry practice, the Company elected the prospective method of adopting fair value accounting. See "Stock Option Plans" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding stock options.
The retroactive restatement method requires the Company's financial statements to be restated as if fair value accounting had been adopted in 1995. For 2006, there is no difference between the prospective method and the retroactive restatement method. The following table discloses the pro forma effects on the Company's net income and earnings per share for 2005 and 2004 as if the retroactive restatement method had been adopted.
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) ("SFAS 123(R)"), "Share-Based Payment", which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS 123(R) eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using APB 25 and requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair value-based method. SFAS 123(R) covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) on January 1, 2006 using the "modified prospective" method. Under this method, compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123(R) for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123(R) that remain unvested on the effective date. As of January 1, 2006, the Company was amortizing all of its unvested stock option grants.
Certain of the Company's stock compensation grants vest when the employee retires. SFAS 123(R) will require the completion of expensing of new grants with this feature by the first date the employee is eligible to retire. For grants prior to January 1, 2006, the Company will continue to expense them over their stated vesting period. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) increased pre-tax expense in 2006 by $12 million, which was recorded in the second quarter of 2006.
 
Pension
At September 30, the measurement date, plan assets were determined based on fair value generally representing observable market prices. The projected benefit obligation is determined based on the present value of projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is based on the yield of high quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace. Periodic pension expense includes service costs, interest costs based on an assumed discount rate, an expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of actuarial gains and losses.
Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments and various unrecognized gains and losses which are deferred and amortized over the future service periods of active employees. The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on fair value adjusted for the difference between expected returns and actual performance of plan assets. The unrealized difference between actual experience and expected returns is included in the market-related value over a five-year period. The Company's stock price used by the ESOP is also smoothed to reduce volatility.
Any unrecognized gains or losses related to changes in the amount of the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience different from the assumed discount rate or expected returns and from changes in assumptions are deferred. To the extent an unrecognized gain or loss, excluding the unrecognized asset gain or loss, exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, the excess is recognized over the future service periods of active employees.
2. Accounting Changes and New Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus in EITF Issue No. 04-5 ("EITF 04-5"), "Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights", which provides guidance in determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership. The adoption of EITF 04-5 did not have a significant impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1 "The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments." The FSP addresses the determination as to when an investment is considered impaired, whether that impairment is other than temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss. The Company adopted the FSP on January 1, 2006. The adoption of the standard did not have a significant impact on its financial condition or results of operations.
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155 ("SFAS 155"), "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments", an amendment of SFAS 140 and SFAS 133. SFAS 155 permits the Company to elect to measure any hybrid financial instrument at fair value if the hybrid instrument contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation and be accounted for separately under SFAS 133. SFAS 155 clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133 and that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a remeasurement event after December 31, 2006. On January 17, 2007, the FASB issued Derivative Implementation Groups ("DIG") Issue B40 which impacts how SFAS 155 is applied. The Company does not believe that SFAS 155 and DIG Issue B40 will have a significant impact on the Company's investment activities.
 
In July 2006, the FASB issued FSP FAS 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leverage Lease Transaction," revising the accounting guidance under SFAS No. 13 ("SFAS 13"), "Accounting for Leases," for leveraged leases. This FSP modifies existing interpretations of SFAS 13 and associated industry practice. As a result in 2007, the Company expects to recognize a one-time after-tax charge to capital of approximately $400 million related to a change in the timing of its lease cash flows due to the LILO settlement. See "Commitments and Contingent Liabilities" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. However, an amount approximating this one-time charge will be taken into income over the remaining term of the affected leases.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 ("SFAS 157"), "Fair Value Measurements." The Statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and expands additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 clarifies that fair value is the amount that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants. SFAS 157 nullifies the consensus reached in EITF Issue No. 02-3 prohibiting the recognition of day one gain or loss on derivative contracts (and hybrid instruments measured at fair value under SFAS 133 as modified by SFAS 155) where the Company cannot verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market data and verify the model to market transactions. However, SFAS 157 requires that a fair value measurement technique include an adjustment for risks inherent in a particular valuation technique (such as a pricing model) and/or the risks inherent in the inputs to the model if market participants would also include such an adjustment. SFAS 157 will require the Company to consider the effect of its own credit standing in determining the fair value of its liabilities. In addition, SFAS 157 prohibits the recognition of "block discounts" for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available in an active market. The requirements of SFAS 157 are to be applied prospectively, except for changes in fair value measurements that result from the initial application of SFAS 157 to existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue No. 02-3, existing hybrid instruments measured at fair value, and block discounts, which are to be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 157.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plansan amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"). SFAS 158 requires the Company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan's overfunded status or a liability for a plan's underfunded status, (b) measure a plan's assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the fiscal year, (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income) and (d) provide additional disclosure. The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements are effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer's fiscal year-end statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158. The effect of adopting SFAS 158 on the Company's consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2006 has been included in the accompanying financial statements. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a charge to equity of $264 million. See "Employee Benefit Plans" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the effect of adopting SFAS 158.
In 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes." The Interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertain tax positions in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The Interpretation requires that a tax position meet a "more-likely-than-not threshold" for the benefit of the uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements. A tax position that fails to meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold will result in either reduction of current or deferred tax assets, and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. The impact of adoption in 2007 is expected to be a charge to equity of approximately $25 million.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 ("SFAS 159"), "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." SFAS 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value and to provide additional information that will help investors and other users of financial statements to understand more easily the effect on earnings of the company's choice to use fair value. It also requires companies to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the company has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 159 along with SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008 and is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 159.
Certain other prior year information has been reclassified to conform its presentation to the 2006 financial statements.
3. Acquisitions and Dispositions
The Company continues to be an active acquirer of securities servicing and asset management businesses. The Company frequently structures its acquisitions with both an initial payment and a later contingent payment tied to post-closing revenue or income growth. The Company records the fair value of contingent payments as an additional cost of the entity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable.
At December 31, 2006, the Company was liable for potential contingent payments related to acquisitions in the amount of $158 million. During 2006, the Company paid or accrued $35 million for contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior years, and $154 million of potential contingent payments lapsed.
2006
During 2006, five businesses were acquired for a total cost of $2,557 million. Potential contingent payments related to 2006 acquisitions are $145 million. Goodwill and the tax-deductible portion of goodwill related to 2006 acquisitions transactions was $1,946 million and $1,641 million, respectively. Other than the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, the pro forma effect of the 2006 acquisitions is not material to the 2006 results. See below for a discussion of the impact of the purchase of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and the sale of the Retail Business.
On January 3, 2006, the Company acquired Alcentra Group Limited ("Alcentra"), an international asset management group focused on managing funds that invest in non-investment grade debt and other structured credit products. Alcentra's management team retained a 20 percent interest. Alcentra has operations in London and Los Angeles and at acquisition managed 15 different investment funds with over $6.2 billion of assets.
On March 2, 2006, the Company acquired Urdang Capital Management, Inc. ("Urdang"), a real estate investment management firm that at acquisition managed approximately $3.0 billion in direct investments and portfolios of REIT securities.
On June 12, 2006, the Company acquired the bond administration business of TD Banknorth, N.A. The TD Banknorth portfolio includes bond trustee, paying/fiscal agent, master trustee, transfer agent and registrar appointments. The transaction involved the purchase of approximately 350 bond trusteeships and agency appointments, representing $5.2 billion of principal debt outstanding for an estimated 230 clients.
On October 1, 2006, the Company sold its Retail Business to JPMorgan Chase for the net asset value plus a premium of $2.3 billion. JPMorgan Chase sold its corporate trust business to the Company for the net asset value plus a premium of $2.15 billion. The difference between premiums resulted in a net cash payment of $150 million to the Company. There is also a contingent payment of up to $50 million to the Company tied to customer retention. For further details, see "Discontinued Operations" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
JPMorgan Chase's corporate trust business comprised issues representing $5 trillion in total debt outstanding. It had 2,400 employees in more than 40 locations globally. Prior to the acquisition, the Company's corporate trust business comprised issues representing $3 trillion in total debt outstanding and had 1,300 employees in 25 locations globally.
The Company's retail bank consisted of 338 branches in the tri-state region, serving approximately 700,000 consumer households and small businesses with $13 billion in deposits and $9 billion in assets at September 30, 2006. The Company's regional middle market businesses provided financing, banking and treasury services for middle market clients, serving more than 2,000 clients in the tri-state region. Together, the units had 4,000 employees located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Delaware.
The transaction further increases the Company's focus on the securities services and wealth management businesses that have fueled the Company's growth in recent years and that are at the core of its long-term business strategy.
The Company recorded an after-tax gain of $1,381 million on the sale of the Retail Business. The Company also expects to incur after-tax charges of $150 million related to the acquisition. The transaction is expected to be dilutive to GAAP earnings per share through 2009 (4.5 percent in 2007 to 1.5 percent in 2009), but to be accretive to cash earnings per share in 2009 when cost savings are fully phased in.
On a pro forma basis, if the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business had occurred on January 1, 2005, the transaction would have had the following impact:
 
The pro forma results are based on adding the pre-tax historical results of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business to the Company's results and adjusting for amortization of intangibles created in the transaction and taxes. The pro forma data does not include adjustments to reflect the Company's operating costs or expected differences in the way funds generated by the Acquired Corporate Trust Business are invested. The pro forma data is intended for informational purposes and is not indicative of the future results of operations.
The Company's transaction with JPMorgan Chase altered the composition of the balance sheet. When the Acquired Corporate Trust Business is fully integrated in 2007, approximately $14 billion of U.S. dollar retail deposits will have been replaced with between $11 billion and $14 billion of institutional corporate trust deposits. Between $7 billion and $10 billion of deposits related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business have not yet transitioned to the Company. These deposits will transition to the Company as regulatory approval is received to operate in certain foreign locations and as the novation process proceeds in other foreign locations. The Company expects the transition will be substantially complete by June 30, 2007. Until the transition is complete, JPMorgan Chase will pay the Company for the net economic value of these deposits. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded $23 million of net economic value payments in noninterest income. On the asset side of the balance sheet, approximately $8 billion of retail and middle market loans included in the sale of the Retail Business have been replaced with liquid assets and securities. Goodwill and intangibles related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business were approximately $2.3 billion.
On October 2, 2006, the Company completed the transaction resulting in the formation of BNY ConvergEx Group. BNY ConvergEx Group brought together BNY Securities Group's trade execution, commission management,
 
independent research and transition management business with Eze Castle Software, a leading provider of trade order management and related investment technologies. This transaction enabled the Company to achieve several objectives including repositioning its execution services business for faster growth and enhancing the product offering for the Company's client base, while allowing the Company to withdraw capital committed to the business.
BNY ConvergEx Group is a leading global agency brokerage and technology company offering a complete spectrum of pre-trade, trade, and post-trade solutions for traditional money managers, hedge funds, broker-dealers, corporations and plan sponsors. BNY ConvergEx Group has a global presence in New York, Boston, San Francisco, Chicago, Dallas, Stamford, London, Bermuda, Tokyo, Hong Kong, and Sydney.
The Company and GTCR Golder Rauner, LLC each hold a 35 percent stake in BNY ConvergEx Group, with the balance held by Eze Castle Software's investors and BNY ConvergEx Group's management team. BNY ConvergEx Group, with pro forma 2005 revenues of approximately $340 million, is an affiliate of The Bank of New York and is reflected on the Company's financial statements as an equity investment. After the use of the proceeds to repurchase shares, the transaction is expected to be neutral to earnings per share.
The BNY Securities Group businesses included in BNY ConvergEx Group are BNY Brokerage, Lynch, Jones & Ryan, G-Port, Westminster Research and BNY Jaywalk. In addition, The Bank of New York's B-Trade and G-Trade businesses are expected to become part of BNY ConvergEx Group in 2008, although in the interim they will continue to be owned by The Bank of New York.
On December 1, 2006, the Company sold its transfer agency software business, Rufus, to Bravura Solutions Limited ("Bravura"), a leading global supplier of wealth management applications and professional services, for approximately $38 million. Under the agreement, Bravura acquired all of the software and intellectual property comprising Rufus, and all existing employees will transfer to Bravura.
On December 3, 2006, the Company and Mellon entered into a definitive agreement to merge, creating the world's largest securities servicing and asset management firm. The new company, which will be called The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, will be the world's leading asset servicer with assets under custody expected to exceed $17 trillion and the world's leading corporate trustee with assets under trusteeship expected to exceed $8 trillion. It will rank among the top 10 global asset managers with assets under management expected to exceed $1.1 trillion.
The combined company is expected to have annual revenues of more than $12 billion, with approximately 28% derived from asset servicing, 38% from issuer services, clearing services and treasury services, and 29% from asset management and private wealth management. It will be well positioned to capitalize on global growth trends, including the evolution of emerging markets, the growth of hedge funds and alternative asset classes, the increasing need for more complex financial products and services, and the increasingly global need for people to save and invest for retirement. Almost a quarter of combined revenue will be derived internationally.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company's shareholders will receive 0.9434 shares in the new company for each share of the Company that they own and Mellon shareholders will receive one share in the new company for each Mellon share they own.
To induce Mellon to enter into the merger agreement, the Company granted Mellon an option to purchase up to 149,621,546 shares of the Company's common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $35.48 and the closing sale price of the Company's common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may Mellon acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock under this stock option agreement. Mellon cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving the Company and a third party.
 
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire the Company prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, the Company may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of the Company's common stock purchased by Mellon under the option at a predetermined price, or Mellon may choose to surrender the option to the Company for a cash payment of $1.15 billion. In no event will the total profit received by Mellon with respect to this option exceed $1.3 billion.
To induce the Company to enter into the merger agreement, Mellon granted the Company an option to purchase up to 82,641,656 shares of Mellon common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $40.05 and the closing sale price of Mellon common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may the Company acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of Mellon common stock under this stock option agreement. The Company cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving Mellon and a third party.
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire Mellon prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, Mellon may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of Mellon common stock purchased by the Company under the option at a predetermined price, or the Company may choose to surrender the option to Mellon for a cash payment of $725 million. In no event will the total profit received by the Company with respect to this option exceed $825 million.
On December 19, 2006, the Company acquired the remaining 50% stake in AIB/BNY Securities Services (Ireland) Ltd. (AIB/BNY) that it did not own from Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. ("AIB"). AIB/BNY was established in 1995 as a joint venture between AIB and the Company to provide a range of services for a number of fund structures domiciled in Ireland. At acquisition, AIB/BNY had $210 billion of assets under administration and employed 600 staff between its Dublin and Cork offices.
2005
During 2005, four businesses were acquired for a total cost of $188 million. Potential contingent payments related to 2005 acquisitions were $8 million. Goodwill and the tax-deductible portion of goodwill related to 2005 acquisitions transactions was $124 million. All of the goodwill was assigned to the Company's Institutional Services segment.
In January 2005, the Company acquired certain of the assets and liabilities of Standard & Poor's Securities, Inc., the institutional brokerage subsidiary of Standard & Poor's. In March 2005, the Company acquired the execution and commission management services of Boston Institutional Services.
In July 2005, the Company acquired Lynch, Jones & Ryan, Inc., a provider of commission recapture programs. Also in July 2005, the Company acquired the bond administration business of Marshall & Ilsley Trust Company N.A., and Marshall & Ilsley Bank, where they act as bond trustee, paying/fiscal agent, master trustee, transfer agent and/or registrar.
In June 2005, the Company and Trust Company of Australia Ltd. formed a joint venture to provide securitization trustee and other agency-related services to Australian-based issuers of debt. In July 2005, The Bank of New York and BHF-BANK established BHF BNY Securities Services GmbH as a jointly held subsidiary to market Global Custody (Depotbank) services for German investment companies, and securities custody and settlement services for the national and international direct investments of institutional investors.
In August 2005, the Company and Nordea, the leading financial services provider in the Nordic region, entered into a strategic agreement to provide global custody and selected related services to Nordea's
 
institutional clients in the Nordic and Baltic Sea regions. Also in August 2005, the Company announced a strategic arrangement with IL&FS Trust Company Limited, a leading provider of trust and fiduciary services in India, to provide Indian issuers with access to the Company's global network, a comprehensive array of services to the international capital markets, and leading-edge technology capabilities.
In October 2005, the Company announced a marketing alliance with National Australia Bank ("National"), which enable the Company to offer commission recapture services to National's custody clients in Australia and New Zealand.
2004
During 2004, nine businesses were acquired for a total cost of approximately $68 million, primarily paid in cash. Potential contingent payments related to 2004 acquisitions were $66 million. Goodwill related to 2004 acquisition transactions was $46 million. The tax-deductible portion of goodwill was $46 million. All of the goodwill was assigned to the Company's Institutional Services segment.
In February 2004, the Company signed an agreement with Thomson Institutional Services Inc., a unit of Thomason Financial, to transfer its commission services client base to the Company. In March 2004, the Company acquired software and other assets of Sonic Financial Technologies LLC, a leading provider of direct access electronic trading solutions.
In May 2004, the Company made a strategic investment in London-based Netik, LLC. Late in the second quarter of 2004, the Company acquired a unit investment trust business that services approximately $20 billion in assets for over 4,200 different series of unit investment trusts.
In July 2004, the Company reached an agreement with National Australia Bank, following their strategic decision to close the National Custodian Services UK operation, to transfer its clients to the Company. In October 2004, the Company acquired Osprey Partners LLC's portfolio accounting technology to broaden its managed account services offering. In November 2004, the Company acquired the execution and commission management assets of Wilshire Associates. In December 2004, the Company acquired Continental Fund Services, a Luxembourg PSF (Professional of the Financial Sector).
4. Discontinued Operations
On October 1, 2006, the Company acquired JPMorgan Chase's corporate trust business and JPMorgan Chase acquired the Company's Retail Business. The Company adopted discontinued operations accounting for its Retail Business. Also included in the sales agreement are provisions related to transitional services that will be provided for a period of up to 8 months after closing, subject to extensions. The results from continuing operations exclude the results of the Company's Retail Business and include the operations of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business only after October 1, 2006.
Results for all the Retail Business are reported separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of the businesses sold are included in assets of discontinued operations held for sale and liabilities of discontinued operations held for sale on the consolidated balance sheet. Net interest income has been computed by allocating investment securities and federal funds sold and related interest income to discontinued operations to match the amount and duration of the assets sold with the amount and duration of the liabilities sold.
 
Summarized financial information for discontinued operations related to the Retail Business is as follows:
 
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities of discontinued operations held for sale as of December 31, 2006 and 2005:
 
5. Goodwill and Intangibles
Goodwill by reporting segment for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 is as follows:
 
 
The changes in goodwill during 2006 were as follows:
 
The table above does not include goodwill of $109 million that was related to the discontinued operations of the Retail Business.
The Company's business segments are tested annually for goodwill impairment. No impairment loss was recorded in 2006 and 2005.
Intangible Assets
 
The aggregate amortization expense of intangibles was $76 million, $40 million and $34 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows:
 
 
6. Securities
The following table sets forth the amortized cost and the fair values of securities at the end of the last two years:
 
At December 31, 2006, almost all of the unrealized losses are attributable to changes in interest rates on investment grade securities. The portion of unrealized losses that are not attributable to interest rates is expected to be recovered. The Company has the ability and intent to hold these securities until their value recovers. The Company believes that all of its unrealized losses are temporary in nature.
 
The following tables show the aggregate related fair value of investments with a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and those that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months.
December 31, 2006
 
 
December 31, 2005
 
The amortized cost and fair values of securities at December 31, 2006, by contractual maturity, are as follows:
 
Realized gross gains on the sale of securities available-for-sale were $24 million in 2006 and $26 million in 2005. There were $98 million of realized gross losses in 2006 and $5 million of realized gross losses in 2005.
At December 31, 2006, assets amounting to $17.1 billion were pledged primarily for potential borrowing at the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The significant components of pledged assets were as follows: $13.1
 
billion were securities and $4.0 billion were loans. Included in these pledged assets was securities available-for-sale of $981 million which were pledged as collateral for actual borrowings. The lenders in these borrowings have the right to repledge or sell these securities. The Company obtains securities under resale, securities borrowed and custody agreements on terms which permit it to repledge or resell the securities to others. As of December 31, 2006, the market value of the securities received that can be sold or repledged was $12.9 billion. The Company routinely repledges or lends these securities to third parties. As of December 31, 2006, the market value of collateral repledged and sold was $198 million.
7. Loans
The Company's loan distribution and industry concentrations of credit risk at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are incorporated by reference from "Loans" in the MD&A section of this report.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its banking subsidiaries have made loans at prevailing interest rates and terms to directors and executive officers of the Company and to entities in which certain Company directors have an ownership interest or direct or indirect subsidiaries of such entities. The aggregate dollar amount of these loans was $211 million, $244 million, and $229 million at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. These loans are primarily extensions of credit under revolving lines of credit established for such entities.
The composition of the Company's loan portfolio at December 31 is shown in the following table:
 
Transactions in the allowance for credit losses, which represents the allowance for loan losses plus the allowance for lending-related commitments are summarized as follows:
 
 
 
The table below sets forth information about the Company's nonperforming assets and impaired loans at December 31:
 
 
Lost Interest
 
At December 31, 2006, commitments to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual or reduced rate were not material. The Company uses the discounted cash flow method as its primary method for valuing its impaired loans.
8. Other Assets
 
9. Long-Term Debt
The following is a summary of the contractual maturity of long-term debt at December 31, 2006 and totals for 2005:
 
 
The Company has $700 million of debt maturing in 2007. At December 31, 2006, subordinated debt aggregating $1,144 million was redeemable at the option of the Company as follows: $341 million in 2007; $284 million in 2008; and $519 million after 2008. The Company has $250 million of subordinated debt that is fixed at 4.25% until 2007 when it becomes variable. The Company has the option to call this debt at that time. The Company has $400 million of subordinated debt that is fixed at 3.40% until 2008 when it becomes variable. The Company has the option to call this debt at that time.
 
Exposure to interest rate movements is reduced by interest rate swap agreements. As a result of these agreements, the effective interest rates differ from those stated.
Wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company (the "Trusts") have issued cumulative Company-Obligated Mandatory Redeemable Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures ("Preferred Trust Securities"). The sole assets of each trust are junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of the Company, whose maturities and interest rates match the Preferred Trust Securities. The Company's obligations under the agreements that relate to the Preferred Trust Securities, the Trusts and the debentures constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by the Company of the Trusts' obligations under the Preferred Trust Securities.
The following table sets forth a summary of the Junior Subordinated Debt issued by the Company as of December 31, 2006:
Preferred Trust Securities
 
The Company has the option to shorten the maturity of BNY Capital IV to 2013 or extend the maturity to 2047. All of the preferred trust securities have been swapped to floating rate.
 
10. Securitizations
The Company provides services to two QSPEs as of December 31, 2006.
Money Fund Securitization
In 2000, the Company purchased BNY Hamilton Money Fund shares with a market value of $400 million. The Company then sold the right to receive the principal value of the shares in 2021 in a securitization transaction and retained the rights to receive on-going dividends from the shares. The Company did not recognize a gain on the sale. The purpose of this securitization is to achieve a favorable after-tax risk-adjusted investment return. The Company sponsors the BNY Hamilton Money Fund and receives an administrative fee for servicing the fund. The Company hedged a portion of the interest rate risk of the transaction by entering into a $200 million interest rate swap with a third party. The retained interest is recorded in available-for-sale securities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Municipal Bond Securitizations
The Company also sponsored $43 million of municipal bond securitizations for which no gain was recognized. The municipal bonds that were transferred were weekly variable rate demand bonds that are designed to trade at par. Therefore, the book value of the bonds was equal to par and they were sold at par, resulting in no gain or loss on sale. All of the bonds in the program are credit enhanced by a third party letter of credit provider rated at least A3/BBB. The Company provides additional liquidity and credit enhancement through total rate of return swaps, letters of credit, and/or, standby bond purchase agreements. The program's purpose is to achieve a favorable after-tax risk-adjusted investment return.
Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Securitization
Since 2000, the Company sells and distributes securities for an asset-backed commercial paper securitization program. The Company services the program and receives a market-based fee of approximately five basis points that is just adequate to compensate the Company for its servicing responsibilities. As a result, there is no servicing asset or liability. At December 31, 2006, there were no assets in the program.
In 2007, the Company restructured the program to be a variable interest entity. A third party holds the first loss position, which is designed to absorb the majority of any expected losses. The Company provides additional liquidity and credit enhancement to the commercial paper securitization program through total rate of return swaps and a subordinated loan. The swaps are constructed to mature as the commercial paper matures. To the extent there is a liquidity issue impacting the paying ability of the underlying assets or if the underlying assets undergo a credit default, the swaps ensure the timely payments to the beneficial interest holders.
The authorized size of the program is $5 billion. The purpose of the securitization is to hold highly rated asset-backed securities and secured corporate obligations in a capital efficient manner.
Impact of Programs
The impact of these securitizations on the Company's fully diluted earnings per share is less than 1 cent. Furthermore, if these transactions were consolidated on the balance sheet, there would have been virtually no impact on the Company's liquidity, and the Tier 1 and Total Capital ratios at December 31, 2006 would have been two basis points lower.
 
11. Shareholders' Equity
The Company has 5 million authorized shares of Class A convertible preferred stock having a par value of $2.00 per share. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, 3,000 shares were outstanding. On January 22, 2007, the Company redeemed 300 shares of Class A convertible preferred stock at a per share redemption price of $25 plus accrued dividends of $11.03. The remaining 2,700 shares were converted into Company common stock with shareholders receiving 7.39644 shares of Company common stock for each share of Class A convertible preferred stock.
In addition to the Class A preferred stock, the Company has 5 million authorized shares of preferred stock having no par value, with no shares outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
In February 2005, the Company's Board of Directors voted unanimously to terminate the Company's Rights Plan and to impose conditions on its ability to adopt a shareholder rights plan in the future.
Each share of the Company's common stock represented one right under the Rights Plan. On March 25, 2005, the Company paid 5 cents per right to redeem them.
The Company has reserved the right of its Board, by a majority vote of its independent directors in their exercise of their fiduciary duties, to determine in light of the circumstances then existing if it would be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to adopt a new shareholder rights plan without prior shareholder approval. If a shareholder rights plan is adopted by the Board without prior shareholder approval, the plan must provide that it will expire within 12 months from its effective date unless ratified by the Company's shareholders.
At December 31, 2006, the Company had reserved for issuance approximately 72 million common shares pursuant to the terms of employee benefit plans.
In October 2006, the Company repurchased 10 million shares of common stock at an initial price of $35.33 from a broker-dealer counterparty who borrowed the shares, as part of an accelerated share repurchase program. The initial price is subject to a purchase price adjustment based on the price the counterparty actually pays for the shares. The program matures in October 2007 when the Company expects to issue shares to settle the purchase price adjustment. Based on the Company's stock price at December 31, 2006, the Company's obligation under the purchase price adjustment was approximately 1 million shares.
 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows:
 
12. Stock Option Plans
The Company's stock option plans ("the Option Plans") provide for the issuance of stock options at fair market value at the date of grant to officers and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, under the Option Plans, the Company may issue 26,580,929 new options. In addition, the Company may reissue any options cancelled under its 1999 and 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plans. Generally, each option granted under the Option Plans is exercisable between one and ten years from the date of grant.
The compensation cost that has been charged against income was $46 million, $49 million, and $39 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $19 million, $20 million, and $16 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.
In 2006 and 2005, the Company used a lattice-based binomial method to calculate the fair value on the date of grant. In 2004 the Company used a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the following weighted-average assumptions noted in the following table.
 
For 2006 and 2005 assumptions were determined as follows:
 
 
 
 
A summary of the status of the Company's Option Plans as of December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, and changes during the years ended on those dates is presented below:
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2006:
 
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $100 million, $31 million, and $27 million.
As of December 31, 2006, there was $41 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested shares granted under the Option Plans. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years.
 
Cash received from option exercise under the option plans for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, was $217 million, $61 million, and $45 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from options exercised totaled $41 million, $11 million, and $9 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004.
13. Income Taxes
Income taxes included in the consolidated statements of income consist of the following:
 
The components of income before taxes are as follows:
 
The Company's net deferred tax liability (included in accrued taxes and other expenses) at December 31 consisted of the following:
 
The Company has recorded foreign tax credit carryovers of $225 million, a portion of which will begin to expire in 2012, and general business credit carryovers of $59 million which begin to expire in 2023. The Company has federal net operating loss carryovers of $923 million (for which it has recorded a $323 million tax benefit) related to a separate filing of a group of certain leasing subsidiaries which begin to expire in 2023. The Company has not recorded a valuation allowance because it expects to realize its deferred tax assets including these carryovers.
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $223 million of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries that have been permanently reinvested abroad and for which no provision has been recorded for income tax that would occur if repatriated. The related unrecognized deferred tax liability is approximately $34 million.
The statutory federal income tax rate is reconciled to the Company's effective income tax rate below:
 
The Company's consolidated income tax returns are closed to examination through 1995. Although the Internal Revenue Services ("IRS") has completed its examination for 1996 and 1997, at this time a formal revenue agent's report has not been received. The IRS is currently examining the Company's consolidated federal income tax return for tax years 1998 through 2002. New York State and New York City return examinations have been completed through 1993. New York State and New York City are currently examining the Company's tax returns for the years 1994 through 1996.
14. Employee Benefit Plans
The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all full-time and eligible part-time employees and other postretirement benefit plans providing healthcare benefits for certain retired employees.
Adoption of SFAS 158
On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158. This statement required the Company to recognize the funded status of its defined benefit pension and healthcare plans in the December 31, 2006 balance sheet, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption represents the net unrecognized actuarial losses, unrecognized prior service costs, and unrecognized transition obligation remaining from the initial adoption of SFAS No. 87 ("SFAS 87"), "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," and SFAS No. 106 ("SFAS 106"), "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," all of which were previously netted against the plan's funded status in the Company's consolidated balance sheet pursuant to the provisions of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106. These amounts will be subsequently recognized as net periodic pension cost pursuant to the Company's historical accounting policy for amortizing such amounts. Further, actuarial gains and losses that arise in subsequent periods and are not recognized as net periodic pension cost in the same periods will be recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. Those amounts will be subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost on the same basis as the amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income at adoption of SFAS 158.
 
The following table illustrates the incremental effect of adopting the provisions of SFAS 158 on the Company's consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 158 had no impact on the Company's consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2006, or for any prior period presented, and it will not affect the Company's operating results in future periods. Had the Company not been required to adopt SFAS 158 at December 31, 2006, it would have recognized an additional minimum liability pursuant to the provisions of SFAS 87. The effect of recognizing the additional minimum liability is included in table below in the column labeled "Prior to Adoption of SFAS 158."
 
Included in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2006 are the following amounts that have not yet recognized in net periodic cost: unrecognized transition asset of $25 million ($15 million net of tax), unrecognized prior service credits of $84 million ($49 million net of tax), and unrecognized actuarial losses of $496 million ($291 million net of tax). The transition obligation, prior service credit, and actuarial loss included in accumulated other comprehensive income and expected to be recognized in net periodic pension cost during the year-ended December 31, 2007 is $4 million ($2 million net of tax), $10 million ($6 million net of tax), and $38 million ($22 million net of tax), respectively.
For 2006 and 2005, the Company used September 30 as the measurement date for plan assets and obligations. For 2008 pension expense, the Company will change the measurement date to December 31, 2007.
 
Defined Benefit Plans
The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit obligation, fair value of plan assets, and funded status for September 30, 2006 and 2005:
 
Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the future service period (11 years) of active employees if they exceed a threshold amount. The Company currently has unrecognized losses, which are being amortized.
Amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2006 and 2005 consist of:
 
 
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $1,048 million at September 30, 2006 and $1,080 million at September 30, 2005.
The following table contains information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets at December 31:
 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
Net periodic benefit cost included the following components:
 
Plan Assumptions
 
The Company's expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the target allocation for each asset class. Anticipated returns are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. The Company also considers the growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.
For additional information on pension assumptions see "Critical Accounting Policies" in the MD&A section.
 
Assumed Healthcare Cost Trend
Domestic Healthcare Benefits
The assumed healthcare cost trend rate used in determining benefit expense for 2006 is 9.7% decreasing to 5.0% in 2013. This projection is based on various economic models that forecast a decreasing growth rate of healthcare expenses over time. The underlying assumption is that healthcare expense growth cannot outpace gross national product ("GNP") growth indefinitely, and over time a lower equilibrium growth rate will be achieved. Further, the growth rate assumed in 2013 bears a reasonable relationship to the discount rate.
An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the postretirement benefit obligation by $14.6 million, or 8.3%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.9 million, or 8.4%. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $12.6 million, or 7.2%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.8 million, or 7.2%.
Foreign Healthcare Benefits
An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the postretirement benefit obligation by $2.1 million, or 24%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.2 million, or 26%. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $1.7 million, or 18%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.2 million, or 20%.
Investment Strategy and Asset Allocation
The Company's investment objective for its U.S. and foreign plans is to maximize total return while maintaining a broadly diversified plan. Equities are the main holding including the Company's common stock as well as private equities. The Company has committed to fund additional private equities, which, when the commitments are drawn upon, will bring the Company's actual allocation for private equities closer to its target of 8%. Alternative investments and fixed income securities provide diversification and lower the volatility of returns.
The Company's pension assets were invested as follows at September 30:
 
Included in the domestic plan assets above were 4.2 million shares of the Company's common stock with a fair value of $150 million and $125 million on September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, representing 11% of 2006 plan assets and 9% of 2005 plan assets. In October 2006, the Company purchased 2.1 million shares of its common stock from its main domestic pension plan. The remaining 2.1 million shares had a fair value of $84 million as of December 31, 2006. Assets of the U.S. postretirement healthcare plan are invested in an insurance contract.
 
Expected Contributions for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2007
The Company estimates that the contributions it will make in 2007 to fund its pension plans will be $5.5 million for the domestic plans and $6.3 million for the foreign plans.
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
The following table shows the expected future benefit payments for the next 10 years:
 
Defined Contribution Plans
The Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") covering certain domestic full-time employees with more than one year of service. The ESOP works in conjunction with the Company's defined benefit pension plan. Employees are entitled to the higher of their benefit under the ESOP or the defined benefit pension plan. If the benefit under the pension plan is higher, the employee's share of the ESOP is contributed to the pension plan. Contributions are made equal to required principal and interest payments on borrowings by the ESOP. At September 30, 2006 and 2005, the ESOP owned 10.5 million and 10.9 million shares of the Company's stock, respectively. The fair value of total ESOP assets were $375 million and $326 million at September 30, 2006 and 2005. Contributions were approximately $3.3 million in 2006, $2.1 million in 2005 and $0.2 million in 2004. ESOP related expense was $3 million, $2 million and $3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
The Company has defined contribution plans, excluding the ESOP, for which it recognized a cost of $62 million in 2006, $58 million in 2005, and $60 million in 2004.
15. Company Financial Information
The Bank of New York, the Company's primary banking subsidiary, and its other U.S. bank subsidiaries are subject to dividend limitations under the Federal Reserve Act and state banking laws. Under these statutes, prior regulatory approval is required for dividends in any year that would exceed the Bank's net profits for such year combined with retained net profits for the prior two years. The Bank is also prohibited from paying a dividend in excess of undivided profits.
Under the first and more significant of these limitations, the Bank could declare dividends of approximately $791 million in 2007 plus net profits earned in the remainder of 2007.
The Federal Reserve Board can also prohibit a dividend if payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The Federal Reserve Board generally considers that a bank's dividends should not exceed earnings from continuing operations.
The Company's capital ratios and discussion of related regulatory requirements are incorporated by reference from "Capital Resources" in the MD&A section.
 
The Federal Reserve Act limits and requires collateral for extensions of credit by the Company's insured subsidiary banks to the Company and certain of its non-bank affiliates. Also, there are restrictions on the amounts of investments by such banks in stock and other securities of the Company and such affiliates, and restrictions on the acceptance of their securities as collateral for loans by such banks. Extensions of credit by the banks to each of the Company and such affiliates are limited to 10% of such bank's regulatory capital, and in the aggregate for the Company and all such affiliates to 20%, and collateral must be between 100% and 130% of the amount of the credit, depending on the type of collateral.
The insured subsidiary banks of the Company are required to maintain reserve balances with Federal Reserve Banks under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation D. Required balances averaged $112 million and $119 million for the years 2006 and 2005.
In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank, such as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., is impaired by losses or otherwise, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"), a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the bank's shareholders, pro rata, and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.
The Parent company's condensed financial statements are as follows:
Balance Sheets
 
 
Statements of Income
 
 
Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
16. Other Noninterest Income and Expense
In 2006, other noninterest income included a pre-tax gain of $35 million related to the conversion of the Company's New York Stock Exchange seats into cash and shares of NYSE Group, Inc. common stock, some of which were sold. In 2006, other noninterest expense included a $22 million transition services expense related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business. In 2005, other noninterest income included a $17 million gain on the sale of Company's interest in Financial Models Companies, Inc. In 2004, other noninterest income included a pre-tax gain of $48 million from the sale of a portion of the Company's investment in Wing Hang.
Other noninterest income includes equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries of $50 million, $44 million, and $43 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004.
17. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting methodssee "Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following disclosure discusses these instruments on a uniform fair value basis. However, active markets do not exist for a significant portion of these instruments, principally loans and commitments. As a result, fair value determinations require significant subjective judgments regarding future cash flows. Other judgments would result in different fair values. Among the assumptions used by the Company are discount rates ranging principally from 5% to 8% at December 31, 2006 and 4% to 7% at December 31, 2005. The fair value information supplements the basic financial statements and other traditional financial data presented throughout this report.
A summary of the practices used for determining fair value is as follows.
Interestbearing Deposits in Banks
The fair value of interestbearing deposits in banks is based on discounted cash flows.
Securities, Trading Activities, and Derivatives Used for ALM
The fair value of securities and trading assets and liabilities is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes, or pricing models. Fair value amounts for derivative instruments, such as options, futures and forward rate contracts, commitments to purchase and sell foreign exchange, and foreign currency swaps, are similarly determined. The fair value of interest rate swaps is the amount that would be received or paid to terminate the agreement.
Loans and Commitments
For certain categories of consumer loans, fair value includes consideration of the quoted market prices for securities backed by similar loans. Discounted future cash flows and secondary market values are used to determine the fair value of other types of loans. The fair value of commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit, and commercial letters of credit is based upon the cost to settle the commitment.
Other Financial Assets
Fair value is assumed to equal carrying value for these assets due to their short maturity.
Deposits, Borrowings, and Long-Term Debt
The fair value of noninterest-bearing deposits and payables to customers and broker-dealers is assumed to be their carrying amount. The fair value of interest-bearing deposits, borrowings, and long-term debt is based upon current rates for instruments of the same remaining maturity or quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.
 
The carrying amount and estimated fair value of the Company's financial instruments are as follows:
 
The table below summarizes the carrying amount of the hedged financial instruments and the related notional amount of the hedge and estimated fair value (unrealized gain/(loss)) of the derivatives that were linked to these items:
 
 
The following table illustrates the notional amount, remaining contracts outstanding, and weighted average rates for derivative hedging contracts:
 
The Company's financial assets and liabilities are primarily variable rate instruments except for investment securities. Fixed-rate loans and deposits are issued to satisfy customer and investor needs. Derivative financial instruments are utilized to manage exposure to the effect of interest rate changes on fixed-rate assets and liabilities, and to enhance liquidity. The Company matches the duration of derivatives to that of the assets and liabilities being hedged, so that changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates will be offset.
The Company uses interest rate swaps, futures contracts, and forward rate agreements to convert fixed-rate loans, deposits, and long-term debt to floating rates. Basis swaps are used to convert various variable rate borrowings to LIBOR which better matches the assets funded by the borrowings.
The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of its investments in foreign subsidiaries. The after-tax effects are shown in the cumulative translation adjustment included in shareholders' equity. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, foreign exchange contracts in a net notional amount of $1,744 million and $1,636 million, with fair values of $(35) million and $24 million, hedged corresponding amounts of foreign investments. These foreign exchange contracts had a maturity of less than six months at December 31, 2006. In 2006, the Company hedged its $33 million net investment in an affiliate with a non-derivative financial instrument. In addition, at December 31, 2006, foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts of $107 million and maturities of less than one year hedged corresponding amounts of foreign currency denominated forecasted transactions; the fair value of these contracts was $ 4 million.
Deferred net gains or losses on ALM derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2006 were a credit of $12 million and a credit of $14 million at December 31, 2005.
Net interest income increased by $3 million in 2006, $95 million in 2005, and $163 million in 2004 as a result of ALM derivative financial instruments.
A discussion of the credit, market, and liquidity risks inherent in financial instruments is presented under "Liquidity", "Market Risk Management", "Trading Activities and Risk Management", and "Asset/Liability Management" in the unaudited MD&A section and in the "Trading Activities" and "Commitments and Contingent Liabilities" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
18. Trading Activities
The following table shows the fair value of the Company's financial instruments that are held for trading purposes:
 
Foreign exchange and other trading income included the following:
 
Foreign exchange includes income from purchasing and selling foreign exchange, futures, and options. Interest rate contracts reflect results from futures and forward contracts, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, and options. Debt securities primarily reflect income from fixed income securities. Credit derivatives include revenue from credit default swaps. Equities include income from equity securities and equity derivatives.
The following table of total daily revenue or loss captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which the Company's trading revenues fell within particular ranges during the past year.
Distribution of Revenues
(1)
 
 
19. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding which are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Management does not expect any material losses to result from these matters.
The Company's significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are securities, foreign currency and interest rate risk management products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications. The Company assumes these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide customers with the ability to meet credit and liquidity needs, to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks, and to trade for its own account. These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, foreign exchange, and interest rate risk not recognized in the balance sheet. The Company's off-balance sheet risks are managed and monitored in manners similar to those used for on-balance sheet risks. There are no significant industry concentrations of such risks.
A summary of the notional amount of the Company's off-balance sheet credit transactions, net of participations, at December 31, 2006 and 2005 follows:
off-balance sheet Credit Risks
 
The total potential loss on undrawn commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The allowance for lending-related commitments at December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $150 million and $144 million.
A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (the Company) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days. The Company generally lends securities with indemnification against broker default. The Company generally requires the borrower to provide 102% cash collateral which is monitored on a daily basis, thus reducing credit risk. Security lending transactions are generally entered into only with highly-rated counterparties. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, securities lending indemnifications were secured by collateral of $405.5 billion and $317.4 billion.
Standby letters of credit principally support corporate obligations and include $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion that were collateralized with cash and securities at December 31, 2006 and 2005. At December 31, 2006, approximately $7.2 billion of the standbys will expire within one year, and the balance between one to five years.
The notional amounts for other off-balance sheet risks express the dollar volume of the transactions; however, credit risk is much smaller. The Company performs credit reviews and enters into netting agreements to minimize the credit risk of foreign currency and interest rate risk management products. The Company enters into offsetting positions to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
 
At December 31, 2006, approximately $248 billion of interest rate contracts will mature within one year, $364 billion between one and five years, and the balance after five years. At December 31, 2006, approximately $113 billion of foreign exchange contracts will mature within one year and $2 billion between one and five years, and the balance after five years. There were no derivative financial instruments on nonperforming status at year-end 2006.
Use of derivative financial instruments involves reliance on counterparties. Failure of a counterparty to honor its obligation under a derivative contract is a risk the Company assumes whenever it engages in a derivative contract.
A summary of the notional amount and credit exposure of the Company's derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2006 and 2005 follows:
 
 
Operating Leases
Net rent expense for premises and equipment was $180 million in 2006, $181 million in 2005, and $161 million in 2004.
At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company was obligated under various noncancelable lease agreements, some of which provide for additional rents based upon real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance and for various renewal options. The minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment having a term of more than one year from December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 are as follows:
 
Other
The Company has provided standard representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to its provision of financial services. Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of these risks. The Company is a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities, or other transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other partners do not honor their obligations. It is not possible to estimate a maximum potential amount of payments that could be required with such agreements.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company makes certain investments that have tax consequences. From time to time, the IRS may question or challenge the tax position taken by the Company. The Company engaged in certain types of structured cross-border leveraged leasing investments, referred to as "LILOs", prior to mid-1999 that the IRS has challenged. In 2004, the IRS proposed adjustments to the Company's tax treatment of these transactions. On February 28, 2006, the Company settled this matter with the IRS relating to LILO transactions closed in 1996 and 1997. The settlement did not affect 2006 net income, as the impact of the settlement was fully reserved.
The Company's 1998 leveraged lease transactions are in a subsequent audit cycle and were not part of the settlement. The Company believes that a comparable settlement for 1998 may be possible, given the similarity between these leases and the settled leases. However, negotiations are ongoing and the treatment of the 1998 leases may still be litigated if an acceptable settlement cannot be reached. Under current U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, if the 1998 leases are settled on a basis comparable to the 1996 and 1997 leases, the Company would not expect the settlement of the 1998 leases to have an impact on net income, based on existing reserves.
In the fourth quarter of 2005 the Company deposited funds with the IRS in anticipation of reaching a settlement on all of its LILO investments.
 
On February 11, 2005, the IRS released Notice 2005-13, which identified certain lease investments known as "SILOs" as potentially subject to IRS challenge. The Company believes that certain of its lease investments entered into prior to 2004 may be consistent with transactions described in the notice. Although it is likely the IRS will challenge the tax benefits associated with these leases in 2007, the Company remains confident that its tax treatment of the leases complied with statutory, administrative and judicial authority existing at the time they were entered into.
In 2001 and 2002, the Company entered into various structured transactions that involved, among other things, the payment of UK corporate income taxes that were credited against the Company's U.S. corporate income tax liability. The IRS is currently reviewing these transactions and it is likely that some or all of the credits will be challenged upon completion of the review. If necessary the Company will vigorously defend its position and believes that any tax benefits associated with these transactions were consistent with the applicable statutory, judicial and administrative authority.
The Company currently believes it has adequate tax reserves to cover its LILO exposure and any other potential tax exposures, based on a probability assessment of various potential outcomes. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when appropriate.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and potential legal actions, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are asserted in certain of these actions and proceedings. Due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Company cannot ascertain what the eventual outcome of these matters will be; however, based on current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel, the Company does not believe that judgments or settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal actions or regulatory matters, either individually or in the aggregate, after giving effect to applicable reserves, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Company although they could have a material effect on net income for a given period. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously against all of the claims asserted in these legal actions.
See discussion of contingent legal matters in the "Legal and Regulatory Proceedings" section.
To The Board of Directors and Shareholders of
The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as of December 31, 2006, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 158,.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of The Bank of New York Company Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 21, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
NEW YORK, NEW YORK
February 21, 2007

Exhibit 99.3
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management of the Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Corporation, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Corporation's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in . Based upon such assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2006, the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting is effective based upon those criteria.
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the financial statements included in this Annual Report under "Financial Statements and Notes," has issued a report with respect to management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page 67.
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Mellon Financial Corporation:
We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Mellon Financial Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Mellon Financial Corporation's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assessment that Mellon Financial Corporation maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, Mellon Financial Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Mellon Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006; and our report dated February 22, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 22, 2007
Mellon Financial Corporation
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. Accounting policies
Basis of presentation
The accounting and financial reporting policies of Mellon Financial Corporation (Mellon), a global financial services company, conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and prevailing industry practices. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of related revenue and expense. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
In addition to discontinued operations (see Note 4), other immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with current period presentation.
The consolidated financial statements of Mellon include the accounts of Mellon and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in companies 20% to 50% owned are carried on the equity basis. Mellon's share of earnings of nonconsolidated equity investments are reflected in noninterest revenue as institutional trust and custody, investment management or equity investment fee revenue, as appropriate, in the period earned. Investments in companies less than 20% owned are carried at cost. Intracorporate balances and transactions are not reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
The income statement and balance sheet include results of acquired businesses, accounted for under the purchase method of accounting pursuant to SFAS No. 141 "Business Combinations," and equity investments from the dates of acquisition. We record any contingent purchase payments when the amounts are resolved and become payable.
The Parent Corporation financial statements in Note 30 of Notes to Financial Statements include the accounts of the Parent Corporation; those of a wholly owned financing subsidiary that functions as a financing entity for Mellon and its subsidiaries by issuing commercial paper and other debt guaranteed by Mellon; and MIPA, LLC, a single member company, created to hold and administer corporate owned life insurance. Financial data for the Parent Corporation, the financing subsidiary and the single member company are combined for financial reporting purposes because of the limited function of these entities and the unconditional guarantee by Mellon of their obligations.
We consider the underlying facts and circumstances of individual transactions when assessing whether or not an entity is a potential variable interest entity (VIE). Mellon's assessment focuses on its ability to influence or control the potential VIE as well as the dispersion of risk and rewards attributable to the potential VIE. When Mellon transfers financial assets in a securitization to a VIE, the VIE must represent a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) or we would continue to consolidate the transferred financial assets. QSPE status is achieved when all conditions specified in SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," are met. Those conditions focus on whether the entity is demonstrably distinct from Mellon, limited to only permitted activities, limited on what assets the QSPE may hold, and limited on sales or other dispositions of assets. We also obtain the required true-sale opinions from outside counsel on all securitizations. We have determined that all of our securitization trusts are QSPEs.
Nature of operations
Mellon is a global financial services company providing a broad range of financial products and services in domestic and selected international markets. Through our five business sectors (Mellon Asset Management, Private Wealth Management, Asset Servicing, Payment Solutions & Investor Services and Other), we serve two distinct major classes of customers  financial institutions, corporations and government bodies, and high net worth individuals. For financial institutions, corporations and government bodies, we provide the following services:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
For individuals, we provide mutual funds, separate accounts, wealth management and private banking services. Mellon's asset management businesses provide investment products in many asset classes and investment styles. Although Mellon's largest domestic subsidiaries are headquartered primarily in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions, most of our products and services are offered globally.
Trading account securities, securities available for sale and investment securities
Securities are classified in the trading account securities portfolio, the securities available for sale portfolio or the investment securities portfolio when they are purchased. Securities are classified as trading account securities when the intent is profit maximization through market appreciation and resale. Securities are classified as available for sale when we intend to hold the securities for an indefinite period of time or when the securities may be used for tactical asset/liability purposes and may be sold from time to time to effectively manage interest rate exposure, prepayment risk and liquidity needs. Securities are classified as investment securities when we intend to hold them until maturity.
Trading account securities are stated at fair value. Trading revenue includes both realized and unrealized gains and losses. The liability incurred on short-sale transactions, representing the obligation to deliver securities, is included in other funds borrowed at fair value.
Securities available for sale are stated at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on assets classified as available for sale, net of tax, are recorded as an addition to or deduction from other comprehensive results. Investment securities are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount on a level yield basis. Gains and losses on sales of securities available for sale are reported in the income statement. The cost of securities sold is determined on a specific identification basis.
On a quarterly basis, we review our investment securities that have a fair value less than the amortized cost of the security in order to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. We consider many factors and all available evidence, including the duration and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, as well as our ability and current intent to hold the securities for a period sufficient for a recovery in value. Securities with an unrealized loss that is determined to be other than temporary are written down to fair value, with the write-down recorded as a realized loss in gains (losses) on sales of securities.
Loans
Loans are reported net of any unearned discount. Loan origination and upfront commitment fees, as well as certain direct loan origination and commitment costs, are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the lives of the related loans. Deferred fees and costs are netted against outstanding loan balances. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value.
Unearned revenue on direct financing leases is accreted over the lives of the leases in decreasing amounts to provide a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases. Revenue on leveraged leases is recognized on a basis to achieve a constant yield on the outstanding investment in the lease, net of the related deferred tax liability, in the years in which the net investment is positive. Gains on sales of lease residuals are recognized in financing-related revenue.
Commercial loans, including commercial leases, generally are placed on nonaccrual status when either principal or interest is past due 90 days or more, unless the loan is well secured and in the process of collection. We also place commercial loans on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal or interest becomes doubtful. Residential mortgage loans generally are placed on nonaccrual status when, in our judgment, collection is in doubt or the loans are 180 days or more delinquent. Personal loans, other than residential mortgages, and certain secured commercial loans are charged off
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
upon reaching various stages of delinquency depending upon the loan type, or upon the death or bankruptcy of the borrower. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is reversed against current period interest revenue. Interest receipts on nonaccrual and impaired loans are recognized as interest revenue or are applied to principal when we believe the ultimate collectibility of principal is in doubt. Nonaccrual loans generally are restored to an accrual basis when principal and interest payments become current or when the loan becomes well secured and is in the process of collection.
A loan is considered to be impaired, as defined by SFAS No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan," when it is probable that Mellon will be unable to collect all principal and interest amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. An impairment reserve is measured on the loans which meet the definition of an impaired loan per SFAS No. 114. Personal nonaccrual loans are not tested for impairment because they are included in large groups of smaller-balance homogeneous loans that, by definition along with leases, are excluded from the scope of SFAS No. 114.
Impaired loans are required to be measured based upon the loan's market price, the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan's initial effective interest rate, or at fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. If the loan valuation is less than the recorded value of the loan, an impairment reserve is established for the difference. The impairment reserve is established by either an allocation of the reserve for credit losses or by a provision for credit losses. Impairment reserves are not needed when the recorded investment in an impaired loan is less than the loan valuation.
Reserve for loan losses and reserve for unfunded commitments
The reserve for loan losses, shown as a valuation allowance to loans, and the liability reserve for unfunded commitments are referred to as Mellon's reserve for credit exposure. The accounting policy for the determination of the adequacy of the reserves has been identified as a "critical accounting policy" as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates and assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain.
The reserve for loan losses is maintained to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date based on our judgment. The reserve determination methodology is designed to provide procedural discipline in assessing the appropriateness of the reserve. Credit losses are charged against the reserve. Recoveries are added to the reserve.
The methodology for determining the liability for unfunded commitments considers the same factors as the reserve for loan losses, as well as an estimate of the probability of drawdown.
Premises and equipment
Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are calculated over the estimated useful lives of the assets, limited in the case of leasehold improvements to the lease term, using the straight-line method.
Mellon capitalizes costs relating to acquired software and internal-use software development projects that provide new or significantly improved functionality. We capitalize projects that are expected to result in longer term operational benefits, such as replacement systems or new applications that result in significantly increased operational efficiencies or functionality.
Identified intangible assets and goodwill
Identified intangible assets with estimable lives are amortized in a pattern consistent with the assets' identifiable cash flows or using a straight-line method over their remaining estimated benefit periods if the pattern of cash flows is not estimable. Intangible assets with estimable lives are reviewed for possible impairment when events or changed circumstances may affect the underlying basis of the asset. Goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are assessed at least annually for impairment, generally based on discounted cash flows. The accounting policy for valuing and impairment testing of identified intangible assets and goodwill has been identified as a "critical accounting policy" as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Income taxes
Deferred taxes are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of existing differences between the financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax laws and rates. Mellon files a consolidated federal income tax return. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Foreign currency translation
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Revenue and expense accounts are translated monthly at an average monthly exchange rate. Transaction gains and losses are included in the income statement. Translation gains and losses on investments in foreign entities with functional currencies that are not the U.S. dollar are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive results.
Fee revenue
Mellon records investment management, distribution and service, institutional trust and custody, payment solutions & investor services, foreign exchange trading and other revenue when the services are provided and earned based on contractual terms, when amounts are determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
Additionally, we recognize revenue from non-refundable, up-front implementation fees under outsourcing contracts using a straight-line method, commencing in the period the ongoing services are performed through the expected term of the contractual relationship. Incremental direct set-up costs of implementation, up to the related implementation fee or minimum fee revenue amount, are deferred and amortized over the same period that the related implementation fees are recognized. If a client terminates an outsourcing contract prematurely, the unamortized deferred incremental direct set-up costs and the unamortized deferred up-front implementation fees related to that contract are recognized in the period the contract is terminated.
Investment management performance fees are recognized in the period in which the performance fees are earned and become determinable. Performance fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the applicable portfolio's performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group's performance. For hedge fund investments, an investment management performance fee is calculated as a percentage of the applicable portfolio's positive returns. When a portfolio underperforms its benchmark or fails to generate positive performance in the instance of a hedge fund investment, subsequent years' performance must generally exceed this shortfall prior to fees being earned. Amounts billable in subsequent years and which are subject to a clawback if performance thresholds in those years are not met are not recognized since the fees are potentially uncollectible. These fees are recognized when it is determined that they will be collected. When a multiyear performance contract provides that fees earned are billed ratably over the performance period, only the portion of the fees earned that is non-refundable are recognized.
Pensions
Mellon provides pension benefits to substantially all of its salaried employees through its noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans. Employees are provided benefits that are based upon the employees' years of service and compensation. The prepaid pension benefit is reported in other assets. The unfunded pension liability is recorded in other liabilities. Net periodic expense or benefit credits are recognized in staff expense. Mellon's accounting policy regarding pensions has been identified as a "critical accounting policy" as it is regarded to be critical to the presentation of our financial statements since it requires management to make numerous complex and subjective assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain. For further discussion of our pension accounting policy, see pages 95, 96 and 97 of this report.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Severance
Mellon provides displacement benefits through the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement Program to eligible employees displaced from their jobs for business reasons not related to individual performance. Basic displacement benefits are based on the employee's years of continuous benefited service. Extended displacement benefits are based on salary grade and are available to eligible displaced employees who have not commenced other employment prior to exhausting their basic displacement benefits pay. The extended displacement benefit will be discontinued in 2007 for current employees and was not offered to employees hired in 2006. Displacement expense is recorded when management commits to an action that will result in displacement and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Derivative instruments used for risk management purposes
Mellon enters into derivative instruments to manage its sensitivity to interest rate, currency and credit risk. This is accomplished by using these instruments to offset the inherent price, interest rate or currency risk of specific balance sheet assets or liabilities. Qualifying instruments are designated as hedges on the trade date. All derivative instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values. The fair value of contracts in a gain position is reported on the balance sheet in other assets and the fair value of contracts in a loss position is reported in other liabilities. In cases where counterparty netting agreements exist, only the net gain or loss on all eligible contracts with such counterparties are reported on the balance sheet. A derivative designated as a hedge of changes in the fair value of an asset or liability or of a firm commitment attributable to a specified risk is considered to be a fair value hedge. A derivative designated as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to an asset or liability is considered to be cash flow hedge.
Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and qualifies as a fair value hedge, along with the loss or gain on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk (including losses or gains on firm commitments), are recorded in current period earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive results, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods as the hedged item affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are highly effective and qualify as foreign currency hedges are recorded in either current period earnings or other comprehensive results, depending on whether the hedge transaction meets the criteria for a fair value or a cash flow hedge. If, however, a derivative or non-derivative financial instrument that may result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses is used as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, the changes in fair value of the derivative or the non-derivative financial instrument, to the extent the hedge is effective, are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments within other comprehensive results. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify as hedges are recorded in current period earnings.
Mellon formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivative instruments that are designated as fair value, cash flow, or foreign currency hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. A formal assessment, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing quarterly basis, is performed to determine whether the derivative instruments that are used in hedging transactions have been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items and whether they are expected to continue to be highly effective in future periods.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
When it is determined that a derivative instrument is not highly effective as a hedge, hedge accounting is discontinued. Hedge accounting is also discontinued when:
 
 
 
 
When hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative instrument will be either terminated, continue to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value or redesignated as the hedging instrument in either a cash flow or fair value hedge, if the relationship meets all applicable hedging criteria. Any asset or liability that was previously recorded as a result of recognizing the value of a firm commitment will be removed from the balance sheet and recognized as a gain or loss in current period earnings. Any gains or losses that were recorded in other comprehensive results from hedging a forecasted transaction will be recognized immediately in current period earnings, if it is probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur.
For further discussion of hedging activity during 2004 through 2006, see the "Fair value hedges" and "Cash flow hedges" sections on page 48 of this report. The information in those sections is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
Derivative instruments used for trading activities
We enter into various derivative instruments to accommodate our customers and for our proprietary trading activities. Derivative instruments that are based on specific market indices are also used to manage risk in other portfolios, such as start-up mutual fund investments. In addition, we enter into credit default swaps, which allow the transfer of credit risk from one party to another for a fee.
These swaps, which do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes, are used to hedge credit risk associated with commercial lending activities. Realized and unrealized changes in the fair value of derivative instruments used for trading activities are recognized in the income statement in foreign exchange trading or other revenue in the period in which the changes occur. The fair value of contracts used for proprietary trading activities is reported as other assets or other liabilities. In cases where counterparty netting agreements exist, only the net gain or loss on all eligible contracts with such counterparty is reported on the balance sheet.
Statement of cash flows
Mellon has defined cash and cash equivalents as cash and due from banks. Cash flows from assets and liabilities that have an original maturity date of three months or less generally are reported on a net basis and those that have an original maturity date greater than three months generally are reported on a gross basis. Cash flows from hedging activities are classified in the same category as the items hedged.
Pro forma cost of stock options
Effective Jan. 1, 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," prospectively for all employee awards granted, modified, or settled after Jan. 1, 2003. On Jan. 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," using the modified prospective transition method of adoption. See Notes 2 and 23 of Notes to Financial Statements for additional disclosure.
The following table illustrates the pro forma effect on income and earnings per share as if the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) had been applied to all awards in each period. The cost related to stock-based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for 2005 and 2004 was less than what would have been required by SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) if it had been adopted prior to Jan. 1, 2006. Following the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), we began to expense nonvested ShareSuccess options granted prior to 2003. These options were not expensed in 2005, or 2004, nor were any other options granted prior to 2003.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
2. Adoption of new accounting standards
SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004)
On Jan. 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," which requires an entity to recognize in the income statement the grant-date fair value of stock options over their vesting period. Mellon had previously adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, on a prospective basis, for all awards granted, modified or settled after Jan. 1, 2003. We elected to use the modified prospective transition method as permitted by SFAS 123 (Revised 2004) and therefore have not restated our financial results for prior periods. Under this method, stock-based compensation expense for 2006 includes compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, Jan. 1, 2006. As such, we began expensing our nonvested ShareSuccess stock options that were awarded prior to 2003. The total impact of expensing the ShareSuccess options was $4 million pre-tax in 2006. In addition, as discussed further in Note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements, we recorded expense of $2 million pre-tax in 2006 for restricted stock awards to retirement-eligible employees, bringing the total impact of adoption of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) to $4 million after-tax, or $.01 per share, in 2006.
Prior to Jan. 1, 2006, we recognized forfeitures on stock options and restricted stock as they occurred. SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) requires a company to estimate the number of awards for which it is probable that the requisite service will be rendered and record that expense over the vesting period. The adjustment required at Jan. 1, 2006 to estimate forfeitures on previously recognized compensation expense for unvested stock options and restricted stock was minimal.
In November 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123 (R)-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards." Mellon has elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123 (Revised 2004). The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool related to the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation awards that are outstanding upon the adoption of SFAS 123 (Revised 2004).
SFAS No. 158Pensions
At Dec. 31, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R." This Statement requires, among other things, companies to recognize on the balance sheet the funded or unfunded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans and to recognize changes in the funded status, in the year the changes occur. As a result, companies now recognize on their balance sheets any previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and transition obligations that were not yet included in
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
income. At Dec. 31, 2006, we reduced our prepaid pension asset and increased our unfunded pension liability and postretirement medical liability, with the offset recorded as a decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income (a component of equity) by $245 million pre-tax, or $159 million after-tax. The effect of adopting this Statement was to reduce both our shareholders' equity to assets ratio and tangible shareholders' equity to assets ratio by approximately 40 basis points at Dec. 31, 2006.
SAB 108Quantifying Financial Statement Misstatements
In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 108 "Guidance on Quantifying Financial Statement Misstatements." This SAB addresses how the effects of prior-year uncorrected misstatements should be considered when quantifying the misstatements in current-year financial statements. The SAB requires registrants to quantify misstatements using both the year-end balance sheet perspective ("iron curtain method") and current year income statement perspective ("rollover method") and to evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying the aggregate impact of prior period uncorrected misstatements as material in light of relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. SAB 108 did not have an impact on our results of operations or financial position in 2006.
3. Contingent and deferred consideration related to acquisitions
Mellon completed four acquisitions in 2006, listed below by business sector, at a total cost of $347 million paid in cash plus $110 million in shares of our common stock for the Walter Scott & Partners acquisition. Goodwill and intangibles of $534 million were recorded for these acquisitions.
Mellon Asset Management
 
 
Private Wealth Management
 
PS&IS
 
Additional consideration for prior acquisitions of $20 million was paid in 2006, including $3 million in shares of our common stock for the Arden Group, Inc. acquisition and the last of four annual deferred consideration cash payments of $12.5 million in connection with the Standish Mellon acquisition. The $47 million net present value of this obligation was recorded as additional goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2002.
We record contingent purchase payments when amounts are determinable. Amounts generally become determinable and payable when an acquisition reaches a certain level of performance. At Dec. 31, 2006, we are potentially obligated to pay contingent additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures, could range from approximately $170 million to $370 million over the next four years, including a possible additional payment of $20 million for DPM Mellon. None of the potential contingent additional consideration was recorded as goodwill at Dec. 31, 2006.
Mellon owns 70% of Mellon Financial Services Asset Management S.A., a Brazilian institutional asset management and asset servicing company. The minority interest owners have attempted to exercise certain put rights, which obligate our subsidiary to purchase the remaining 30% of the company. The purchase price, as defined, is based on the levels of assets under management and administration, among other things. The minority interest owners and Mellon disagree on the computation of the purchase price. This dispute is in binding arbitration. We offered $6 million for the remaining 30% of the company and the minority interest owners made an initial request of $59 million, based upon exchange rates in effect at Dec. 31, 2006.
4. Discontinued operations
In August 2006, we announced a definitive agreement to sell our insurance premium financing company, AFCO Credit Corporation, and its Canadian affiliate, CAFO Inc., to Branch Banking
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
and Trust Company. It was determined that this business no longer fit our strategic focus on our global asset management and securities servicing businesses. This business was formerly included in the Other sector. The sale closed on Jan. 2, 2007 resulting in a gain of $11 million after-tax, that was recorded in the first quarter of 2007. In the third quarter of 2006, we applied discontinued operations accounting to this business and the income statements for all periods have been restated. The restatement primarily resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels of net interest revenue and the net interest margin; a slight reduction in financing-related revenue; a reduction in operating expenses; and a slight change in continuing earnings per share for certain periods.
In December 2006, Mellon sold its ownership interest in the direct and indirect portfolios of Mellon Ventures, our venture capital business, to investment funds organized by affiliates of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and New MVI, L.P. This decision was based upon the determination that this business no longer fit our strategic focus on our global asset management and securities servicing businesses. A substantial portion of the sale was completed in December 2006 with subsequent closings expected to occur during the first quarter of 2007, once remaining consents to the transfer are obtained. This business was formerly included in the Other sector. We applied discontinued operations accounting to this business in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the income statements for all periods have been restated. This restatement resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels of equity investment revenue; a reduction in operating expenses; an increase in net interest revenue; and a change in continuing earnings per share.
The sale of the venture capital portfolios and related costs generated an after-tax loss of $68 million, reported as a net loss on disposals. The sale of these portfolios was completed as a bulk sale transaction, as a result of Mellon's desire to complete its business exit rapidly and in one transaction. Prior to Mellon considering the sale of its venture capital portfolio, each investment in the portfolio was carried at fair value in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide, which does not provide for a bulk sale liquidation discount. Fair values were individually derived from the Mellon Ventures valuation process. This process included observable and unobservable data points that were subject to independent validation and senior management oversight on a quarterly basis, but did not consider a bulk sale discount within the framework of the valuation. Although the sale resulted in a loss, Mellon accepted the price to allow it to redeploy capital to its core business strategy, as well as to minimize the volatility associated with variable revenues versus the relatively fixed carrying and operating costs of the business.
This transaction was settled for cash and a $38 million receivable. The receivable amount is adjustable upward or downward under certain circumstances upon disposition of a single investment. Mellon also retained gain sharing provisions for certain other investments.
On March 16, 2005, Mellon announced the signing of a definitive agreement to sell our human resources (HR) consulting practices, benefits administration and business process outsourcing businesses, included in the former Human Resources & Investor Solutions sector, to Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS). After a thorough review, it was determined that the investments required to compete successfully in those businesses could be better utilized by building on the strong positions of our other core businesses. The sale closed on May 26, 2005. In the first quarter of 2005, we applied discontinued operations accounting to these businesses.
In the fourth quarter of 2004, we applied discontinued operations accounting to certain businesses in Australia. We sold our business providing comprehensive multi-manager defined contribution services to the intermediary market in the fourth quarter of 2004. In April 2005, we sold our Australian consulting and administration businesses to Mercer Human Resource Consulting. These businesses were formerly included primarily in the Mellon Asset Management sector.
Because the lines of business included in discontinued operations were discrete lines of business serving classes of customers no longer served by Mellon's continuing lines of business, the disposition of these businesses has no material impact on continuing operations going forward.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Revenue from discontinued operations totaled $95 million in 2006, $405 million in 2005 and $802 million in 2004. Total revenue in 2006 included $49 million for the Mellon Ventures businesses and $44 million for AFCO/CAFO.
 
All information in these Financial Statements and Notes reflects continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.
5. Cash and due from banks
Cash and due from banks includes reserve balances that Mellon's subsidiary banks are required to maintain with a Federal Reserve bank. These required reserves are based primarily on deposits outstanding and were $282 million at Dec. 31, 2006 and $280 million at Dec. 31, 2005. These balances averaged $211 million in both 2006 and 2005.
6. Securities
Gross realized gains were $3 million, $1 million and $9 million on sales of securities available for sale in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Gross realized losses on sales were less than $1 million in 2006, less than $1 million in 2005 and $1 million in 2004. After-tax net gains on the sales of securities were $2 million, $1 million and $6 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004. At Dec. 31, 2006, and Dec. 31, 2005, securities issued by the U.S. Government and its agencies and U.S. Government sponsored agencies (shown in the tables below) exceeded 10% of shareholders' equity. At Dec. 31, 2006 and Dec 31, 2005, there were no other issuers that exceeded 10% of shareholders' equity.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
Note: Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Rates are calculated on a taxable equivalent basis using a 35% federal income tax rate.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
Note: Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Rates are calculated on a taxable equivalent basis using a 35% federal income tax rate.
Pledged assets
Securities available for sale, investment securities, trading account securities and loans with book values of $16.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $15.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2005 were pledged to secure public and trust deposits, repurchase agreements and for other purposes. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. The collateral received from or provided to third parties under resale or repurchase agreements can be sold or repledged by the holder of the collateral. The fair value of collateral received totaled $125 million and the fair value of collateral provided totaled $133 million, under these agreements at Dec. 31, 2006. The fair value of collateral either received from or provided to a third party is continually monitored and additional collateral is obtained from, or requested to be returned to, Mellon as deemed appropriate.
Temporarily impaired securities
The following table shows gross unrealized losses and fair values of Mellon's investments, aggregated by investment category and length of time that the individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The unrealized loss of $157 million at Dec. 31, 2006 related to movement in interest rates. Nearly all of the securities with unrealized losses are AAA-rated or carry government agency guarantees. Approximately 85% of the unrealized losses on these 1,031 investments have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than 12 months. Management believes the collection of the contractual principal and interest is probable and therefore all unrealized losses are considered to be temporary. As shown on pages 82 and 83, unrealized gains totaled $48 million in the available-for-sale and investment portfolios at Dec. 31, 2006.
7. Loans
For details of loans outstanding at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005, see the 2006 and 2005 columns of the "Composition of loan portfolio at year-end" table on page 38. The information in those columns is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
For details of nonperforming and past-due loans at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005, see the amounts in the 2006 and 2005 columns of the "Nonperforming assets at year-end" table on page 39 and the first sentence of the last paragraph in the "Nonperforming assets" section on page 40. The information in those columns and that sentence is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements. For details on impaired loans at Dec. 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, see the amounts in the "Impaired loans" table on page 40. The information in that table is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements. There were no restructured loans at Dec. 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.
Referral arrangements with Three Rivers Funding Corp. (TRFC), an asset-backed commercial paper entity
Mellon's primary banking subsidiary, Mellon Bank, has a referral relationship with, and provides administrative services to, TRFC, a special purpose entity that issues commercial paper. TRFC is owned by an independent third party and is not a subsidiary of either Mellon Bank or Mellon. Its financial results are not included in the financial statements of Mellon Bank or Mellon. TRFC was formed in 1990 and can issue up to $5 billion of commercial paper to make loans secured by, and to purchase, pools of receivables and asset backed securities. Mellon Bank operates as a referral agent and refers transactions to TRFC as well as providing administrative services. Loans or other assets are not transferred from Mellon Bank to TRFC. TRFC sold subordinated notes to an unrelated third party in 2003, and as a result of that sale, Mellon is not the
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
"primary beneficiary" of TRFC, as defined by FIN 46 Revised. At Dec. 31, 2006, TRFC's receivables totaled $3.200 billion and commercial paper outstanding totaled $3.213 billion, compared with receivables and commercial paper outstanding each totaling $1.550 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. A letter of credit provided by Mellon Bank in support of TRFC's commercial paper totaled $149 million at Dec. 31, 2006, compared with $191 million at Dec. 31, 2005. Liquidity support is provided by Mellon Bank up to the full amount of commercial paper outstanding, or $3.213 billion, at Dec. 31, 2006. However, the probability of a loss scenario is remote as there are significant structural protections built into each transaction to provide protection against uncollectible receivables. Since TRFC's formation in 1990, Mellon Bank has not been required to fund under any liquidity support or under the letter of credit. In addition, Mellon Bank has never purchased a receivable from TRFC or recorded a credit loss related to its relationship with TRFC.
8. Reserve for credit exposure
For details of the reserve for credit exposure, see the 2006, 2005 and 2004 columns of the "Reserve for unfunded commitments" table on page 41 and the "Loan loss reserve activity" table on page 42. The information in those columns is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
9. Premises and equipment
 
Rental expense was $119 million, $121 million and $110 million, net of related sublease revenue of $29 million, $32 million and $23 million, in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Depreciation and amortization expense totaled $125 million, $119 million and $117 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Maintenance, repairs and utilities expenses totaled $115 million, $118 million and $106 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
As of Dec. 31, 2006, Mellon and its subsidiaries were obligated under noncancelable leases with expiration dates through 2027. A summary of the future minimum rental payments under noncancelable leases, net of related sublease revenue totaling $130 million, is as follows: 2007$166 million; 2008$179 million; 2009$120 million; 2010$119 million; 2011$112 million; and 2012 through 2027$805 million.
10. Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
The level of goodwill increased in 2006 due to acquisitions and additional consideration paid for prior acquisitions, listed below by sector, and the effect of foreign exchange rates on non-U.S. dollar denominated goodwill:
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Mellon Asset Management
 
Private Wealth Management
 
 
Payment Solutions & Investor Services
 
The assets of HBV Alternative Strategies LLC, which included goodwill of $18 million, were classified as assets of a business transferred under contractual arrangements in Other Assets. See Note 11 for a further discussion.
No charges for goodwill impairment were recognized in continuing operations in 2006 or 2005. In 2004, a goodwill impairment loss of $8 million was recorded in continuing operations in the former Treasury Services/Other Activity sector in other expense on a small non-strategic business that we exited. An impairment writedown of $37 million was recorded in discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2005 for the anticipated sale of the HR Services businesses. Also, an impairment loss of $4 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2005 and $11 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004 on the discontinued businesses in Australia.
 
Acquired intangible assets
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
During 2006, the gross carrying amount of intangible assets subject to amortization increased $246 million, as acquisitions and contingent payments [Walter Scott & Partners$243 million (Mellon Asset Management); U.S. Trust$3 million (Private Wealth Management); ClearTran$2 million (PS&IS); Singer & Friedlander$1 million (Mellon Asset Management)] and the effect of foreign exchange rates, were partially offset by an $11 million impairment charge. The impairment writedown of a customer base intangible asset was recorded at DPM Mellon resulting principally from the loss of a major client that existed at the date of acquisition, due to the client's liquidation of its assets in 2006. The writedown was recorded in the Asset Servicing sector as amortization of intangible assets. Approximately $34 million of goodwill related to DPM Mellon is recorded in the Asset Servicing sector, which is defined as the business reporting unit for purposes of goodwill impairment testing. This goodwill was not considered to be impaired at Dec. 31, 2006.
In 2006, $226 million, with a weighted-average amortization period of 16 years, was assigned to the customer base intangibles, principally for the Walter Scott & Partners acquisition. In addition, $21 million with a weighted-average amortization period of 7 years, was assigned to other and $2 million with a weighted-average amortization period of 10 years, was assigned to the technology based intangible. We amortize intangible assets over their estimated useful lives. Amortization expense totaled $44 million (including the $11 million impairment charge) in 2006, $27 million in 2005 and $19 million in 2004.
Based upon the current level of intangible assets, the estimated annual amortization expense for 2007 through 2012 is as follows:
 
During 2006, intangible assets not subject to amortization increased $17 million due to the Walter Scott & Partners acquisition ($25 million) recorded as a tradename intangible, and additional consideration for a prior-year acquisition ($2 million) were partially offset by the classification of the assets of HBV Alternative Strategies, LLC ($10 million) as assets of a business transferred under contractual arrangements in Other Assets.
At Dec. 31, 2006, $922 million of goodwill and acquired intangible assets is tax deductible and $1.925 billion is non-tax deductible.
11. Other assets
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Included in Other assets in the table above are $30 million of notes and $6 million of receivables related to the divestiture of Mellon HBV Alternative Strategies LLC (HBV), which was transferred under contractual arrangements to a third party. The consideration for the business is a series of payments for up to 13 years, which are dependent on HBV's cash flow. Accounting guidelines do not permit recording this transaction as a sale for accounting purposes, because Mellon received a nominal down-payment, will be paid over a relatively long period and the payments are dependent solely on HBV's revenue. Mellon will not receive future net profit distributions and is not subject to the ongoing operating risks of the business. All future proceeds, including interest on the notes, will be recorded against the carrying value of the notes on a cost recovery basis. Concurrent with the reclassification to Other assets, a $5 million impairment charge was recorded in Other operating expense to reflect the fair value of the asset. The fair value was estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis of the future payments, as no independent market value was readily determinable. The carrying value will be evaluated quarterly and could result in additional charges.
12. Deposits
The aggregate amount of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or greater was approximately $4.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2006, and $2.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. At Dec. 31, 2006, the scheduled maturities of all time deposits for the years 2007 through 2011, and 2012 and thereafter are as follows: $4.482 billion, $19 million, $18 million, $1 million, $15 million and $62 million, respectively.
13. Revolving credit agreement
The Parent Corporation has a $200 million revolving credit agreement with Mellon Bank, N.A., Mellon's primary bank subsidiary. This agreement serves as a support facility for commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, and expires in June 2007. The credit facility had several restrictions, including a minimum 6% consolidated Tier I ratio and a 1.30 maximum double leverage limitation. At Dec. 31, 2006, Mellon was in compliance with all of the restrictions. In addition, any borrowings are to be collateralized with eligible assets of our non-bank subsidiaries. No borrowings were made under this facility in 2006 or 2005. Commitment fees totaled less than $1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004. There were no third party credit facilities issued to subsidiaries of Mellon at Dec. 31, 2006 or 2005.
14. Notes and debentures (with original maturities over one year)
 
During 2006, the Parent Corporation filed a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission that gives it the ability to issue an indeterminate amount of debt, equity and junior subordinated debentures, subject to maintaining eligibility to use the shelf registration statement. In accordance with the merger agreement with The Bank of New York, Mellon is restricted from issuing equity or equity linked securities prior to the proposed merger.
The Mellon Bank, N.A., notes are subordinated to obligations to depositors and other creditors. The medium-term senior bank notes are subordinated to domestic depositors and are on par with other unsubordinated and unsecured creditors of Mellon Bank, N.A.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The aggregate amounts of notes and debentures (including the effect of fair value hedge adjustments) that mature during the five years 2007 through 2011 for Mellon are as follows: $840 million, $249 million, $288 million, $347 million and $748 million. The aggregate amounts of notes and debentures that mature during the five years 2007 through 2011 for Mellon Financial Corporation (Parent Corporation) are as follows: $398 million, $249 million, $288 million, $347 million and $748 million.
15. Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (junior subordinated debentures)
Mellon established three statutory business trusts, Mellon Capital I, Mellon Capital II and Mellon Capital III, of which Mellon owns all of the common capital securities. These trusts exist solely to issue guaranteed preferred beneficial interests (trust-preferred securities) in Mellon's junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, which are reported on our consolidated balance sheet as "Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities" (junior subordinated debentures). We record interest expense on the junior subordinated debentures. We also recorded in other assets the $31 million of common capital securities issued by the trusts. Loans held by the trusts, reflected as subordinated debentures on Mellon's consolidated balance sheet, are the sole assets of the trusts.
Mellon has the right to defer payment of interest on the junior subordinated debentures at any time, or from time to time, for periods not exceeding five years for the Series A and B and a period not to exceed ten years for the Series C. If interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures are deferred, the distributions on the trust-preferred securities also are deferred. Interest on the junior subordinated debentures and distributions on the trust-preferred securities is cumulative. Mellon, through guarantees and agreements, has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of the trusts' obligations under the trust-preferred securities. The trust-preferred securities, less the common capital securities issued by the trusts, continue to qualify as Tier I capital.
 
The Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures were each issued for a face value of $515 million. The Series C junior subordinated debentures were issued in pound sterling at a face value of 200 million. The Series A, B and C junior subordinated debentures pay interest semiannually and are reported net of issuance costs in the table above. The debentures are unsecured and subordinate to all of Mellon's senior debt (as defined).
The Series A and Series B securities are redeemable at 103.86% and 103.9975% of the liquidation amounts, plus accrued distributions, during the 12-month periods beginning Dec. 1, 2006 and Jan. 15, 2007 (the call dates). Based on current interest rate expectations and subject to our ability to issue replacement securities prior to the proposed merger with The Bank of New York, we intend to redeem our Series A and Series B junior subordinated debentures in the second quarter of 2007. We expect to replace these securities with a combination of Tier I qualifying capital securities and senior debt securities that would reduce our future funding costs. Redemption of both securities would result in a total pre-tax charge to income of $46 million for the redemption premiums and write-off of unamortized issuance costs.
The Series C securities are redeemable at par, in whole but not in part, at Mellon's option on or after Sept. 19, 2016. The Series C debentures are also redeemable prior to that date, in whole, within 90 days following receipt of a legal opinion that, due to a change in the tax laws or an administrative or judicial decision, there is a substantial risk that the tax deductibility of the interest could be
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
disallowed ("tax event"); or Mellon's reasonable determination that, due to a change in law or administrative or judicial decision, there is a substantial risk that Tier I capital treatment could be disallowed ("capital treatment event"); or following receipt of a legal opinion that, due to a change in the tax laws or an administrative or judicial decision, there is a substantial risk that the trust is or will be considered an investment company that is required to be registered under the Investment Act of 1940 ("investment company event"); or if the trust or Mellon is required to withhold income tax on the Preferred Securities or the junior subordinated debentures ("withholding tax event").
The Series C securities will be redeemed on Sept. 19, 2036 (the scheduled maturity date) subject to the satisfaction of certain redemption conditions.
16. Preferred stock
Mellon has authorized 50 million shares of preferred stock, none of which was issued at Dec. 31, 2006, 2005 or 2004.
17. Regulatory capital requirements
A discussion about Mellon's regulatory capital requirements for 2006 and 2005 is presented in the "Regulatory capital" section on pages 34 and 35 and is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
18. Noninterest revenue
The components of noninterest revenue for 2006, 2005 and 2004 are presented in the "Noninterest revenue" table on page 8. Institutional trust and custody revenue includes equity income from Asset Servicing joint ventures of $75 million, $45 million and $32 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Investment management revenue includes $2 million, $- million and $3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004 of equity income from Mellon Asset Management joint ventures. That table, including through the "Total noninterest revenue" line, is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
19. Net interest revenue
 
20. Business sectors
For details of our business sectors, see pages 22 through 24, the tables, through "Average Tier I preferred equity" on page 25, as well as the Other section on page 31 through the paragraph discussing economic capital. The tables and information in those paragraphs are incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
21. Income taxes
 
In addition to amounts applicable to income before taxes, the following income tax (benefit) amounts were recorded in shareholders' equity.
 
The provision for income taxes was different from the amounts computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income taxes due to the items listed in the following table.
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows.
 
A valuation allowance of $52 million has been recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 109 relating to deferred tax assets associated with state and foreign loss carry forwards. During 2006, deferred tax assets were recognized for state and foreign purposes that had previously not been recognized. Management believes that it is more likely than not that realization of these assets will not occur.
The foreign tax credit carry forwards at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005 were $12 million and $25 million, respectively, expiring between 2010 and 2015.
Included in tax expense in 2005 is a tax benefit of $2 million related to the repatriation of earnings from foreign subsidiaries under Section 965 of the Internal Revenue Code.
As part of a restructuring of its foreign operations, Mellon transferred certain businesses to a new foreign subsidiary. Income taxes attributed to the intergroup transfer of identified intangibles related to those businesses are deferred and amortized over the anticipated life of the intangibles. Deferred taxes related to other temporary differences that reversed upon the transfer of the foreign operations and other related adjustments resulted in a deferred tax benefit of $66 million.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Mellon provides deferred U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries except to the extent that such earnings are indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the restructuring of its foreign operations, beginning with the fourth quarter of 2006, Mellon indefinitely reinvested earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries, resulting in $74 million of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were indefinitely reinvested at Dec. 31, 2006. The deferred U.S. tax on those earnings that would be provided if those earnings were not indefinitely reinvested would be approximately $2 million. In addition, there is $178 million of tax basis differences related to foreign currency translation and other temporary differences which would reverse only upon a taxable transaction for which no deferred U.S. tax has been provided. If taxes were provided on these other basis differences, the resulting deferred tax liability would be $62 million.
Locations domiciled outside of the U.S. generated foreign pre-tax earnings of approximately $249 million in 2006, $112 million in 2005 and $10 million in 2004.
22. Comprehensive results
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Tax effects allocated to each component of comprehensive results
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
23. Employee benefits
Defined Benefit Retirement Plans
Mellon's largest subsidiary, Mellon Bank, and some of our smaller subsidiaries sponsor trusteed, noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans. Together, these plans cover substantially all salaried employees of Mellon.
The plans provide benefits that are based on the employees' years of service and compensation. In addition, several unfunded plans exist for certain employees or for purposes that are not addressed by the funded plans.
The following tables report the combined data of the funded and unfunded plans. The impact of acquisitions shown below reflects the acquisition of a pension plan previously sponsored by the Russell/Mellon joint venture. The impact of divestitures shown below relates to the sale of the HR businesses to ACS in May 2005.
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
The accumulated benefit obligation for all funded defined benefit pension plans was $1.349 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $1.295 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. The accumulated benefit obligation for all unfunded defined benefit plans was $149 million at Dec. 31, 2006 and $150 million at Dec. 31, 2005.
There were no funded plans with obligations in excess of plan assets at Dec. 31, 2006 and Dec. 31, 2005.
Mellon considers its accounting policy regarding pensions to be critical to the presentation of our financial statements since it requires us to make complex and subjective estimates and assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain. This policy, including the assumed discount rate, expected return on plan assets and assumed rate of compensation increase, which was reviewed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, is discussed on the following pages.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The data above are prepared in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions." Three primary economic assumptions influence the reported values of plan liabilities and pension costs. SFAS No. 87 directs that each significant assumption used in the measurement of net periodic benefit cost (credit) must reflect Mellon's best estimate solely with respect to that individual assumption. We take the following factors into consideration when establishing each assumption.
The discount rate represents an estimate of the rate at which retirement plan benefits could be effectively settled. This assumption is sensitive to movements in market rates and, therefore, is likely to change from year to year. Mellon considers alternative reference points when setting the discount rate including current rates of return available on longer term high grade bonds. In particular, we take into account changes in yields on these longer term bonds, specifically the direction and magnitude of such changes, between the previous year end and the current year end. The primary benchmark used is the Moody's Aa Corporate Bond Index. A comparison of the duration of the projected benefit obligation for our retirement programs to that of the Moody's Aa index indicates that the index provides a reasonable basis for use in setting the discount rate. We verify the reasonableness of the discount rate by comparing the projected benefit obligation to the liability obtained by discounting expected future benefit payments using a theoretical zero-coupon spot yield curve derived from a universe of high quality bonds.
When setting the rate of compensation increase assumption, we take into consideration our recent experience with respect to average rates of compensation increase and expectations for future increases to remain competitive, based on compensation survey data relative to average compensation increases that other large corporations have awarded, and compensation increases that other large corporations expect to award over the upcoming year. This assumption is somewhat sensitive to inflation and, therefore, may change from year to year. The assumed rate of compensation increase was 3.25% at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005.
The assumed rate of return on plan assets represents an estimate of long-term returns available to investors who hold a mixture of stocks, bonds and cash equivalent securities. When setting our expected return on plan assets assumption, we consider long-term rates of return on various asset classes (both historical and expected, using data collected from various sources generally regarded as authoritative) in the context of expected long-term average asset allocations for our defined benefit pension plans. Certain asset allocation benchmarks employed by institutional investors also serve as reference points. To develop assumed rates of return, for example, we applied a benchmark asset allocation of 65% stocks, 30% bonds and 5% cash equivalent securities, to the following long-term rates of return on each asset class.
 
As the previous table indicates, Mellon intends to reduce its expected return for equities and increase its expected return for fixed-income securities for 2007 and the future, resulting in a net decrease in the expected return on assets. We believe that these individual rates of return are reasonable estimates, based on long-term historical data and third party estimates of future expected returns, of the long-term returns that may be expected from each asset class, and that a 65/30/5 assumed asset mix is a reasonable long-term benchmark for Mellon's pension plans. Asset classes actually employed in the retirement plans, as well as asset allocation, vary from time to time. This assumption is set with a long-term horizon and, therefore is not necessarily expected to change on an annual basis. The return on plan assets in 2006 for the funded plans was 13.5%. The returns for the 3, 5 and 10 year periods ending in 2006 were 11.2%, 8.4% and 8.7%.
Mellon's funded pension plans weighted-average asset allocations at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005, by asset category are as follows:
 
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Each retirement plan is administered by fiduciaries who establish investment policy for that plan. Plan assets are invested with the primary objective of satisfying obligations for future benefit payments. The investment policies seek to preserve plan assets and to maximize long-term total return on them, subject to maintaining reasonable constraints on overall portfolio volatility. The investment policies are also designed to comply with applicable regulations (e.g., ERISA in the U.S.). In general, equity securities within any plan's portfolio are maintained in the range of 45% to 75% of total plan assets, fixed-income securities range from 20% to 50% of plan assets and other assets (including cash equivalents) are held in amounts ranging from 0% to 10% of plan assets. Asset allocation within the approved ranges varies from time to time based on economic conditions (both current and forecast) and the advice of professional investment advisors retained by the fiduciaries.
Mellon expects to make cash contributions to its funded defined benefit pension plans, outside the U.S., in the range of $16 million to $18 million in 2007.
The following benefit payments for Mellon's funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
 
The following discussions regarding share based compensation plans and postretirement benefits other than pensions includes amounts in discontinued operations.
Defined Contribution Retirement Plans
Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan
The Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan covers our U.S. benefits-eligible employees. Employees' payroll deductions contributed to the plan are matched by Mellon's contribution of common stock, at the rate of $.65 on the dollar, up to 6% of the employee's eligible base salary. The contribution rate was increased to $.75 on the dollar commencing in 2007. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, we recognized $23 million, $25 million and $29 million of expense related to this plan and contributed 629,717; 810,452; and 1,001,069 shares of our common stock. All shares contributed in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were issued from treasury stock. The plan held 11,948,393; 12,296,426; and 13,562,670 shares of Mellon common stock at Dec. 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.
Other Defined Contribution Plans
Mellon maintains a defined contribution retirement plan in the United Kingdom, which covers Newton Investment Management employees along with certain other non-U.S. employees. In 2006, 2005, and 2004, Mellon recognized $9 million, $8 million and $8 million of expense related to this plan.
Effective Sept. 30, 2006, all existing retirement plans in the United Kingdom were closed to new entrants. This included the defined contribution plan covering Newton employees as well a defined benefit plan covering employees of the Mellon Bank, N.A. London Branch, the asset servicing business and shared services. These plans remain unchanged for employees hired prior to Oct. 1, 2006. All new hires offered employment in the United Kingdom on and after Oct. 1, 2006 participate in a new defined contribution plan that provides a uniform percentage of pay benefit to all eligible employees. The new arrangement is expected to reduce total retirement program costs over time. However, costs will increase by approximately $2 million for the next few years.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Stock option expense
 
We recognize compensation expense for stock option awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the use of subjective assumptions, which can materially affect fair value estimates. The fair value of each option was estimated on the date of the grant using assumptions applicable as of that date. The average value of the assumptions used, weighted by the number of options granted on each date, are shown in the following table:
 
Mellon uses a market-based implied volatility for traded options on its stock for the corresponding expected term of the option as the expected volatility assumption input into the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon the yield on the measurement date of zero-coupon Treasury Strips whose maturity period equals the option's expected term. The dividend yield assumption is based on Mellon's history and expectation of dividend payouts over the term of the option. The expected life computation was derived based on historical exercise patterns.
Change-in-Control Provisions
If the proposed merger with The Bank of New York is approved by the Mellon shareholders, certain change-in-control provisions will be triggered related to Mellon's Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan, Stock Option Plans for Outside Directors, ShareSuccess Plan and Director Equity Plan (2006), that will result in the immediate vesting and expensing of most of these benefits upon shareholder approval. At Dec. 31, 2006, there was approximately $70 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to these plans. This amount does not include unrecognized compensation cost for the vesting of benefits for certain senior officers who waived their acceleration of vesting provisions.
Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan
Mellon's Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004) provides for the issuance of stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance units, deferred cash incentive awards, shares of restricted stock, deferred share awards and other stock-based awards to employees of Mellon and its subsidiaries, as approved by the Compensation and Management Succession Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of our Board of Directors. Stock options may be granted at prices not less than the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. Options may be exercised during fixed periods of time from one year to 10 years from the date of grant. In the event of a change in control of Mellon, as defined in the Plan, these options will become immediately exercisable, unless otherwise provided in the option agreement.
During 2006, 2005 and 2004, options for 1,483,955; 3,832,703; and 6,385,015 shares were granted and options for 4,765,562; 2,459,121; and 1,857,950 shares were exercised. Total outstanding grants as of Dec. 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 25,019,575; 29,807,148; and 32,251,012 shares. The expense recorded in 2006 for these options was $32 million pre-tax, including $3 million for options held by Mellon's former chairman and CEO, pursuant to his employment agreement. The expense recorded in 2005 was $24 million pre-tax and in 2004 was $18 million pre-tax. At Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005, shares available for grant were 17,352,931 and 18,441,942.
Included in the Dec. 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 outstanding grants were options for 11,720; 44,655; and 123,026 shares, that become exercisable in full near the end of their 10-year terms, but the exercise dates may be accelerated to an earlier date by the Compensation Committee, based on the optionee's and Mellon's performance. There was no expense recorded for these options in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Restricted stock, performance shares and deferred share awards have also been issued and are outstanding under the Plan. These awards are discussed in the "Mellon Incentive Compensation Plan, Profit Bonus Plan, Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Awards and Director Equity Plan" section on pages 102 and 103 of this report.
Stock Option Plans for Outside Directors
Mellon had two stock option plans providing for the granting of options to non-employee members of our Boards of Directors. The Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors (2001) provided for grants of stock options to the non-employee directors of Mellon and members of our Advisory Board of Directors. This plan was replaced by the Director Equity Plan (2006) in April 2006, and is discussed on page 103. The Stock Option Plan for Affiliate Boards of Directors (1999) provides for grants of stock options to the non-employee members of those boards who are not also members of Mellon's Board of Directors. No grants can be made to employees of Mellon under these plans. The timing, amounts, recipients and other terms of the option grants are determined by the terms of the directors' option plans and no person or committee has discretion over these grants. The exercise price of the options is equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the grant date. All options have a term of 10 years from the regular date of grant and become exercisable one year from the regular grant date. Directors elected during the service year are granted options on a pro-rata basis to those granted to the directors at the start of the service year. In the event of a change in control of Mellon, as defined in the directors' stock option plans, all outstanding options granted under the directors' stock option plans will become immediately exercisable. Options are also currently outstanding under the Stock Option Plan for the Mellon Financial Group West Coast Board of Directors (1998). This plan was terminated in 2003. No grants were made under this plan in 2006 and no further grants have been or will be made under it.
Total outstanding grants under these plans as of Dec. 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, were 567,498; 690,046; and 804,506 shares of our common stock. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, options for 6,000; 48,900; and 53,649 shares of our common stock were granted and options for 128,548; 163,360; and 163,900 shares were exercised. The expense recorded in 2006, 2005 and 2004 for these options was less than $1 million pre-tax. At Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005, shares available for grant were 54,827 and 382,420.
Summary
The following tables summarize stock option activity for the last three years for the Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan and the stock option plans for outside directors and the characteristics of outstanding stock options at Dec. 31, 2006. The tables below exclude options issued under Mellon's ShareSuccess Plan which is described on pages 101 and 102. Requirements for stock option shares can be met from either unissued or treasury shares. All shares issued upon exercise of options in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were from treasury shares.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options in the preceding table is the pre-tax value that employees and directors could realize if the options were exercised and the employees received the difference between the options' exercise prices and the $42.15 closing per share market price of Mellon's common stock at Dec. 29, the last trading day of 2006. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $55 million for 2006.
As of Dec. 31, 2006, $27 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.6 years.
The weighted-average fair value of options granted was estimated at $8.14 per share in 2006, $6.73 per share in 2005 and $6.43 per share in 2004 and will be expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Broad-Based Employee Stock Options
In June 1999, Mellon adopted its ShareSuccess Plan, a broad-based employee stock option plan covering full- and part-time benefited employees who are not participants in the Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan discussed previously. Effective June 15, 1999, each full-time employee was granted an option to purchase 150 shares and each benefited part-time employee was granted an option to purchase 75 shares of Mellon's common stock. Additional grants, of the same number of shares, were made June 15, 2000, June 15, 2001 and June 14, 2002. (In addition, effective June 15, 2001, each non-benefited part-time employee was granted an option for 75 shares.) The exercise price was equal to the stock price on the grant date. The options become exercisable after seven years, or at any time after one year from the grant date if Mellon's common stock closing market price equals or exceeds a predetermined price for 10 consecutive trading days. In the event of a change in control of Mellon, as defined in the plan, these options become immediately exercisable, subject to certain conditions. All outstanding options expire 10 years after the grant date. On Nov. 10, 2000, the options granted on June 15, 1999, vested when our common stock closing market price met or exceeded $45 per share for 10 consecutive trading days. The options granted in 2000, 2001 and 2002 have not yet vested and will vest when Mellon's common stock closing market price meets or exceeds $50, $60 and $45 per share for 10 consecutive trading days. Upon adoption of SFAS 123 (Revised 2004) on Jan. 1, 2006, we began to recognize expense for the unvested portion of these options. An expense of $4 million pre-tax was recorded in the 2006. No expense was recorded in 2005 or 2004 for these options. The following table presents the activity in the ShareSuccess Plan during 2006, 2005 and 2004. All shares issued upon exercise of options were from treasury shares. At Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005, shares available for grant were 4,885,955 and 4,422,405. We do not anticipate additional annual broad-based grants under the ShareSuccess Plan.
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options in the preceding table is the pre-tax value that employees could realize if the options were exercised and the employees received the difference between the options' exercise prices and the $42.15 closing market price of Mellon's common stock at Dec. 29, 2006, the last trading day in 2006. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was less than $1 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006. As of Dec. 31, 2006, $6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to ShareSuccess stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
In early 2001, we implemented an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). All active employees of Mellon and designated subsidiaries are eligible to participate. Participants purchase common stock at 95% of its fair market value on the last trading day of each three month purchase period. No charge to earnings is required with respect to this plan. In 2006, 116,002 shares were issued at prices ranging from $34.29 to $38.22. In 2005, 161,353 shares were issued at prices ranging from $26.37 to $31.96. At Dec. 31, 2006, 7,630,053 shares were available for purchase under this plan. All shares that were issued were from treasury shares.
Pro forma cost of stock options
For a discussion of the pro forma costs of stock options, see "Pro forma cost of stock options" in Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements.
Mellon Incentive Compensation Plan, Profit Bonus Plan, Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Awards and Director Equity Plan
Performance-based awards are made to key employees at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. The granting of these awards is based upon the performance of the key employees and on Mellon's overall performance (or particular business line performance) in achieving its objectives. At the Committee's election, awards may be paid in a lump sum or may be deferred and paid over a period of up to 15 years and can be in the form of cash, common stock, restricted stock or deferred share awards equivalent to restricted stock. Employees are generally prevented from selling or transferring restricted stock or deferred share awards for a three- year period, and generally the shares or units are forfeited if employment is terminated during that period. However, restrictions on some restricted shares will lapse upon the applicable employee's retirement at age 55 or older with at least five years of employment. No restricted stock was awarded in connection with the Profit Bonus Plan in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
During 2006, Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Performance shares were granted to senior officers under Mellon's Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004). Under the terms of the TSR Performance share awards, a target award comprised of restricted shares is granted to an employee at the beginning of the three-year performance period. Mellon's actual TSR for the performance period is compared to the results of its peer group of 19 companies for the same period, with Mellon's relative position in the group determined by percentile rank. The actual award payout is determined by multiplying the target award by the performance factor percentage provided for Mellon's percentile ranking. If the actual award exceeds the target award, additional shares are then issued within 45 days of the end of the performance period. Employees who retire and are at least age 55 with five years of service receive a pro-rata award based upon the actual number of months worked during the performance period payable at the end of the period when other participants are paid. In the event of a change in control of Mellon, as defined by the plan, the participants would be eligible for a pro-rata vesting based on the number of months worked in the performance period. The value of the TSR Performance shares was determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The Monte Carlo value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the three-year performance period. The amount of compensation expense recognized related to TSR Performance share awards was $3 million in 2006.
In addition to the TSR Performance shares, restricted stock has been granted to senior officers and other key employees under Mellon's Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004). The vesting of these shares is primarily related to service and is expected to occur over a one-to-seven year period. In the
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
event of a change in control of Mellon, as defined in the plan, the restrictions on sale or transfer will immediately terminate. Employees are generally prevented from selling or transferring restricted stock or deferred share awards for a three-year period, and generally the shares or units are forfeited if employment is terminated during that period. However, the restrictions on some restricted shares will lapse upon the applicable employee's retirement at age 55 or older with at least five years of employment. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), we recorded $2 million pre-tax in 2006 related to employees that met the age and service requirements on the date of grant that are necessary to immediately vest in their stock upon retirement.
The total compensation expense recognized for restricted shares, including the TSR Performance shares, was $43 million in 2006, which included $11 million for Mellon's former chairman and chief executive officer, pursuant to his employment agreement. Expense of $26 million and $28 million was recognized in 2005 and 2004.
The following table summarizes our nonvested restricted stock activity for 2006:
 
As of Dec. 31, 2006, $59 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested restricted stock is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 3 years.
Directors Equity Plan (2006)
In April 2006, the Director Equity Plan (2006) was approved by the shareholders and replaced the Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors (2001). In contrast to the Stock Option Plan for Outside Directors (2001), which was limited to stock options, the new Plan offers a variety of types of awards which may be used to provide equity compensation to outside directors. During 2006, 27,240 Deferred Share Units, with a fair market value of $37.43 per unit, were granted to outside directors under the Director Equity Plan (2006). Each Deferred Share Unit entitles the participant to receive a share of Mellon's common stock. The Deferred Share Units vest on the date of Mellon's next annual meeting and are payable 30 days following the date the participant's service on the Board terminates. As of Dec. 31, 2006, there was less than $1 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested Deferred Share Units which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4 months. At Dec. 31, 2006, shares available for grant under the plan were 768,280.
Postretirement benefits other than pensions
Mellon shares in the cost of providing managed care, Medicare supplement and/or major medical programs for former employees who retired prior to Jan. 1, 1991 and grandfathered employees who met certain age and service requirements as of Jan. 1, 1991. Former employees of Buck Consultants who retired prior to Jan. 1, 2001 and grandfathered employees who met certain age and service requirements as of Dec. 31, 2000 are eligible for both pre-65 and post-65 medical coverage based on the cost sharing arrangements under the Buck plan as in effect on Dec. 31, 2000. Employees who retire prior to age 65 with 15 years of service who are not a part of either grandfathered group are eligible for a defined dollar supplement to assist them in purchasing health insurance coverage under the same plans offered to active employees. When these non-grandfathered retirees reach age 65, they become responsible for their own Medicare supplemental coverage. The net periodic benefit cost of providing these benefits, determined in accordance with SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," amounted to $7 million in 2006, $5 million in 2005 and $7 million in 2004. Early retirees who do not meet the service requirement are eligible to purchase health coverage at their own
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
expense under the standard plans that are offered to active employees through Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA).
The following tables sets forth the components of the costs and liability of Mellon's postretirement health care and life insurance benefits programs for current and future retirees.
Postretirement benefits other than pensions
 
Postretirement benefits other than pensions
 
Post retirement benefits other than pensions
 
Discount rates of 5.75%, 6.00% and 6.25%, were used to calculate the 2006, 2005, and 2004 net periodic post retirement benefit costs, and rates of 6.00% and 5.75% were used to value the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO) at year-end 2006 and 2005. A health care cost trend rate was used to recognize the effect of expected changes in future health care costs due to medical inflation, utilization changes, technological changes, regulatory requirements and Medicare cost shifting. The future annual increase assumed in the cost of health care benefits was 9.25% for 2006 and was decreased gradually to 4.75% for 2013 and thereafter. The health care cost trend rate assumption may have a significant impact on the amounts reported. Increasing the assumed health care cost trend by one percentage point in each year would increase the APBO by approximately $6 million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net periodic postretirement benefit cost by less than $1 million. Decreasing the assumed health care cost trend by one percentage point each year would decrease the APBO by approximately $6 million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net periodic postretirement benefit cost by less than $1 million.
Effective May 2005, the HR sector of Mellon was sold to ACS. A curtailment gain was calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 106. In accordance with the sale agreement, special provisions were established to recognize age and future service with ACS through Dec. 31, 2005, for the purpose of determining eligibility for postretirement medical benefits under the Mellon Plan. As a result, a special termination benefit charge was also calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 106.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law, which introduced a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. The Mellon prescription drug plan is actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D.
The following benefit payments for Mellon's postretirement benefits other than pension plans, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
Expected benefit payments - postretirement benefits other than pensions
 
24. Restrictions on dividends and regulatory limitations
The prior approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) is required if the total of all dividends declared by a national bank subsidiary in any calendar year exceeds the bank subsidiary's net profits, as defined, for that year, combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years. Additionally, such bank subsidiaries may not declare dividends in excess of net profits on hand, as defined, after deducting the amount by which the principal amount of all loans on which interest is past due for a period of six months or more exceeds the reserve for credit losses.
Under the first and currently more restrictive of the foregoing federal dividend limitations, Mellon's national bank subsidiaries can, without prior regulatory approval, declare dividends subsequent to Dec. 31, 2006, of up to approximately $85 million of their retained earnings of $1.703 billion at Dec. 31, 2006, less any dividends declared and plus or minus net profits or losses, as defined, earned between Jan. 1, 2007, and the date of any such dividend declaration.
The payment of dividends also is limited by minimum capital requirements imposed on banks. As of Dec. 31, 2006, Mellon's bank subsidiaries exceed these minimum requirements. The bank subsidiaries declared dividends of $645 million in 2006, $675 million in 2005 and $466 million in 2004. The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have issued additional guidelines that require bank holding companies and national banks to continually evaluate the level of cash dividends in relation to their respective operating income, capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.
The Federal Reserve Act limits extensions of credit by Mellon's bank subsidiaries to our Parent Corporation and all other subsidiaries of our Parent Corporation, and requires such extensions to be collateralized and limits the amount of investments by our bank subsidiaries in these entities. At Dec. 31, 2006, such extensions of credit and investments were limited to $371 million to the Parent Corporation or any other subsidiaries and to $743 million in total to the Parent Corporation and all of its other subsidiaries. Outstanding extensions of credit net of collateral subject to these limits were $227 million at Dec. 31, 2006.
25. Legal proceedings
Various legal actions and proceedings are pending or are threatened against Mellon and our subsidiaries and certain former subsidiaries, some of which seek relief or damages in amounts that are substantial. These actions and proceedings arise in the ordinary course of our businesses and operations and include suits relating to our servicing, investment, mutual fund, advisory, trust, custody, shareholder services, working capital solutions, lending, collections and other activities and operations. Certain actions and proceedings relate to businesses that have been divested. From time to time, Mellon may be involved in regulatory enforcement matters in which claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and/or other remedial sanctions are possible.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
As previously reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated Aug. 18, 2006, our bank subsidiary, Mellon Bank, entered into a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania that relates to the April 2001 incident in Mellon's Pittsburgh IRS Processing Unit. Under the terms of the settlement, Mellon has agreed to have an independent third party monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement for a three year period. No monetary penalties or fines were imposed by the agreement, although Mellon will reimburse the federal government for $30 thousand of costs incurred by an outside vendor. If Mellon complies with the terms of the agreement, the U.S. Attorney will not prosecute Mellon. The agreement should not impair Mellon's ability to serve as a long-standing government contractor.
As previously reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 30, 2005, Mellon Investor Services LLC ("MIS"), our transfer agent subsidiary, has received a "Wells Notice" from the Philadelphia District Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) indicating that the staff intends to recommend that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action against MIS for violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. A Wells Notice indicates that the SEC's staff has made a preliminary decision to recommend that the SEC authorize the staff to bring a civil action. However, a Wells Notice is not a formal allegation or proof of wrongdoing. The notice provides MIS the opportunity to respond formally to the SEC staff before the staff makes a final determination whether to recommend that the SEC initiate an action.
The SEC staff has informed MIS that its recommendation relates to MIS' disclosure practices to its transfer agency (issuer) clients during the period 2001 through late 2004 concerning the receipt of fees from a search firm that performs in-depth searches for "lost" shareholders. Fees received by MIS from this firm during this period aggregate to approximately $5 million. MIS believes that the SEC staff has been investigating related practices at other transfer agents. MIS has been cooperating fully with the SEC staff in its investigation and has made a submission explaining why it believes that its conduct was lawful.
Because of the complex nature of some of these legal actions and proceedings, it may be a number of years before such matters ultimately are resolved. After consultation with legal counsel, Mellon's management believes that the aggregate liability, if any, resulting from such pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, although there could be a material effect on results of operations for a particular period.
26. Off-balance sheet financial instruments with contract amounts that represent credit risk
Off-balance sheet risk
In the normal course of business, Mellon becomes a party to various financial transactions that are not fully recorded on its balance sheet under GAAP. Because these transactions are not funded, they are not reflected on the balance sheet and are referred to as financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk. We offer off-balance sheet financial instruments to enable our customers to meet their financing objectives and providing those instruments generates fee revenue for Mellon. These off-balance sheet instruments are subject to credit and market risk. We manage credit risk by:
 
 
Counterparty limits are monitored on an ongoing basis. Market risk arises from changes in the market value of contracts as a result of the fluctuations in interest and currency rates.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Unfunded commitments to extend credit
Mellon enters into contractual commitments to extend credit, normally with fixed expiration dates or termination provisions, at specific rates and for specific purposes. The majority of our unfunded commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers meeting certain pre-established conditions of lending at the time of loan funding and include material adverse change clauses within the commitment contracts. These clauses allow us to deny funding a loan commitment if the borrower's financial condition deteriorates during the commitment period, such that the customer no longer meets the pre-established conditions of lending.
Mellon's maximum exposure to credit loss upon the occurrence of any event of default by the customer is represented by the contractual amount of the commitment to extend credit. Accordingly, the credit policies utilized in committing to extend credit and in the extension of loans are the same. Market risk arises on commitments to extend fixed rate loans if interest rates have moved adversely subsequent to the extension of the commitment or if required market spreads widen. We believe the market risk associated with commitments is minimal. The amount and type of collateral obtained by Mellon is based upon industry practice, as well as our credit assessment of the customer.
Of the $12 billion of contractual commitments for which we received a commitment fee or which were otherwise legally binding, approximately 33% of the commitments are scheduled to expire within one year, and approximately 97% are scheduled to expire within five years. Total unfunded commitments to extend credit increased $27 million, or less than 1%, at Dec. 31, 2006 compared to Dec. 31, 2005. Unfunded commitments to extend credit expiring over one year increased $311 million, or 4%, at Dec. 31, 2006, compared to Dec. 31, 2005, primarily resulting from a shift towards longer maturities of loan commitments. At Dec. 31, 2006, we had a $77 million reserve for credit exposure to outstanding commitments.
Letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees
There are two principal types of letters of creditstandby and commercial. The off-balance sheet credit risk involved in issuing standby and commercial letters of credit is represented by their contractual amounts and is essentially the same as the credit risk involved in unfunded commitments to extend credit. Mellon minimizes this risk by adhering to its written credit policies and by requiring security and debt covenants similar to those contained in loan agreements. We believe the market risk associated with letters of credit and foreign guarantees is minimal.
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees irrevocably obligate Mellon for a stated period to disburse funds to a third-party beneficiary if our customer fails to perform under the terms of an agreement with the beneficiary. Standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees are used by the customer as a credit enhancement and typically expire without being drawn upon. The amount and type of any collateral are based on industry practices, as well as a credit assessment of the customer.
Our outstanding exposure to standby letters of credit at Dec. 31, 2006 was $1.5 billion, with approximately 85% maturing within three years. At Dec. 31, 2006, we had a $7 million reserve for credit exposure to outstanding letters of credit.
We must recognize, at the inception of standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. At Dec. 31, 2006, we had a liability of $8 million related to letters of credit issued or modified since Dec. 31, 2002. As required by FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others," the fair value of the liability, which was recorded with a corresponding asset in other assets, was estimated as the present value of contractual customer fees.
A commercial letter of credit is normally a short-term instrument used to finance a commercial contract for the shipment of goods from a seller to a buyer. This type of letter of credit ensures prompt payment to the seller in accordance with the terms of the contract. Although the commercial letter of credit is contingent upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, it represents a credit exposure if the buyer defaults on the underlying transaction. Normally, reimbursement from the buyer is coincidental with payment to the seller under commercial letter of credit drawings. As a result, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
Securities lending
A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days. The borrower will collateralize the loan at all times, generally with cash, or to a lesser degree securities, exceeding 100% of the market value of the loan, plus any accrued interest on debt obligations. Cash collateral is generally reinvested in commercial paper, repurchase agreements, money market funds and floating rate instruments.
Mellon currently enters into two types of agency securities lending arrangementslending with and without indemnification. In securities lending transactions without indemnification, we bear no contractual risk of loss other than due to negligence. For transactions in which we provide an indemnification, Mellon generally only indemnifies the owner of the securities against borrower default. If the borrower defaults on returning the securities, our risk of loss occurs if the collateral, when received, is insufficient to purchase and replace securities from these defaulted loans. There were no counterparty default losses on security lending transactions in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Additional market risk associated with securities lending transactions arises from interest rate movements that affect the spread between the rate paid to the securities borrower on the borrower's collateral and the rate we earn on that collateral. This risk is controlled through policies that limit the level of such risk that can be undertaken.
Other guarantees and indemnities
In the normal course of business, Mellon offers guarantees in support of certain joint ventures and subsidiaries, and certain other guarantees and indemnities.
Mellon Bank, N.A. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (ABN AMRO) entered into a joint venture to provide global securities services, with operations commencing in January 2003. Each of the two partners signed a statutory declaration under Dutch law to be jointly and severally liable with the joint venture to parties that have a provable contractual debt or damage claim. The benefit of this declaration is potentially available to all creditors
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
and customers of the joint venture with valid legal claims if the joint venture defaults. The guarantee totaled approximately $78 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 compared with $43 billion at Dec. 31, 2005, primarily related to securities lending activity. Agency securities lending represented $72 billion of this guarantee at Dec. 31, 2006, primarily related to the indemnification of the owner of the securities against broker default. These securities lending transactions were collateralized primarily with cash and OECD government securities totaling $70 billion. The joint venture also indemnifies $483 million of cash collateral reinvested in repurchase agreements for risk of market or credit loss. The potential exposure of this guarantee assumes that there is no capital or assets of the joint venture to satisfy such claims, and that there is no level of contribution by ABN AMRO, which has an S&P 500 long-term credit rating of AA- and a Moody's senior debt rating of Aa3.
Mellon provides liquidity support and a letter of credit in support of TRFC's commercial paper. For a discussion of these arrangements, see Note 7 of Notes to Financial Statements.
Mellon has also provided customary representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing of financial services. We have purchased insurance to mitigate certain of these risks. Mellon is a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities or other transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other partners do not honor their obligations. It is not possible to estimate a maximum potential amount of payments that could be required with respect to such agreements.
27. Derivative instruments used for trading and interest rate risk management purposes
 
Following is a brief discussion of the instruments listed in the above table. The amount of credit risk associated with these instruments results from mark-to-market gains and interest receivables and is calculated after considering master netting agreements, which are generally applicable to derivative instruments used for both trading activities and interest rate risk management purposes. The credit risk for these instruments is reported in other assets on Mellon's balance sheet. Market risk associated with these instruments arises from changes in the market value of contractual positions caused by actual or anticipated movements in currency or interest rates and, for equity options, movements in the equity markets. We limit our exposure to market risk by generally entering into matching or offsetting positions and by establishing and monitoring limits on unmatched positions. There were no counterparty default losses on these instruments in 2006, 2005 or 2004.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Commitments to purchase and sell foreign currency contracts
Commitments to purchase and sell foreign currency facilitate the management of market risk by ensuring that, at some future date, Mellon, or a customer, will have a specified currency at a specified rate. We enter into foreign currency contracts to assist customers in managing their currency risk and as part of our trading activities. The notional amount does not represent the actual market or credit risk associated with this product. We manage credit risk by dealing only with approved counterparties under specific credit limits and by monitoring outstanding contracts by customer and in the aggregate against such limits. The future cash requirements, if any, related to foreign currency contracts are represented by the net contractual settlement between Mellon and its counterparties.
Foreign currency option contracts
Foreign currency option contracts grant the contract purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a specified amount of a foreign currency during a specified period at a predetermined exchange rate to a second currency. Mellon acts as both a purchaser and seller of foreign currency option contracts. Credit risk and future cash requirements are similar to those of foreign currency contracts.
Interest rate swaps
Interest rate swaps obligate two parties to exchange one or more payments generally calculated with reference to fixed or periodically reset rates of interest applied to a specified notional principal amount. Notional principal is the amount upon which interest rates are applied to determine the payment streams under interest rate swaps. Such notional principal amounts often are used to express the volume of these transactions but are not typically exchanged between the counterparties.
Mellon has entered into interest rate swaps to assist customers in managing their interest rate risk. We also use interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy primarily to alter the interest rate sensitivity of our long-term debt and certificate of deposit liabilities.
Credit risk is managed through credit approval procedures that establish specific lines for individual counterparties and limit credit exposure to various portfolio segments. Counterparty and portfolio outstandings are monitored against such limits on an ongoing basis. Mellon has entered into collateral agreements with certain counterparties to interest rate swaps to further secure amounts due. The collateral is generally cash, U.S. government securities or mortgage pass-through securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). The future cash requirements of interest rate swaps are limited to the net amounts payable under these swaps. At Dec. 31, 2006, 67% of the notional principal amount of interest rate swaps used for trading purposes were scheduled to mature in less than five years.
Options, caps and floors
An interest rate option is a contract that grants the purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to either purchase or sell a financial instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time. An interest rate cap is a contract that protects the holder from a rise in interest rates beyond a certain point. An interest rate floor is a contract that protects the holder against a decline in interest rates below a certain point.
Futures and forward contracts
Futures and forward contracts on loans, securities or money market instruments represent future commitments to purchase or sell a specified instrument at a specified price and date. Futures contracts are standardized and are traded on organized exchanges, while forward contracts are traded in over-the-counter markets and generally do not have standardized terms.
For instruments that are traded on an organized exchange, the exchange assumes the credit risk that a counterparty will not settle and generally requires a margin deposit of cash or securities as collateral to minimize potential credit risk. Mellon has established policies governing which exchanges and
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
exchange members can be used to conduct these activities, as well as the number of contracts permitted with each member and the total dollar amount of outstanding contracts. Credit risk related to futures contracts is substantially mitigated by daily cash settlements with the exchanges for the net change in the value of the futures contract. The future cash requirements, if any, related to futures and forward contracts are represented by the net contractual settlement between Mellon and its counterparties.
Equity options
Equity option contracts grant the contract purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a specified amount of equities during a specified period at a predetermined price. We enter into equity options to assist customers in managing market risk associated with equity positions that they hold.
Credit default swaps
Credit default swaps allow the transfer of credit risk from one party to another for a fee. These swaps are used to mitigate credit risk associated with commercial lending activities. Credit risk is managed by setting specific credit limits and by monitoring outstandings by counterparty and in the aggregate against such limits.
Total return swaps
A total return swap is a derivative contract under which the total return (dividend/interest payments and any capital gains or losses) from a specified instrument or index is exchanged for a specified fixed or floating cash flow that is not related to the creditworthiness of the referenced asset. We enter into total return swaps to minimize the risk related to investments in start-up mutual funds that are based on specific market indexes.
28. Concentrations of credit risk
For a discussion of credit risk and the credit risk management process employed by Mellon, see the first five paragraphs of "Credit risk" on page 37. These paragraphs are incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
The maximum risk of accounting loss from on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments with counterparties is represented by their respective balance sheet amounts and the contractual or replacement cost of the off-balance sheet financial instruments. Significant credit concentrations for Mellon at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005 were:
 
 
29. Fair value of financial instruments
A financial instrument is defined by SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," as cash, evidence of an ownership interest in an entity, or a contract that creates a contractual obligation or right to deliver to or receive cash or another financial instrument from a second entity on potentially favorable terms.
Fair value estimates are made at a point in time, based on relevant market data and information about the financial instrument. SFAS No. 107 specifies that fair values should be calculated based on the value of one trading unit without regard to any premium or discount that may result from concentrations of ownership of a financial instrument, possible tax ramifications, estimated transaction costs that may result from bulk sales or the relationship between various financial instruments. Because no readily available market exists for a significant portion of our financial instruments, fair value estimates for these instruments are based on judgments regarding
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
current economic conditions, currency and interest rate risk characteristics, loss experience and other factors. Many of these estimates involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and cannot be determined with precision. Therefore, the calculated fair value estimates cannot always be substantiated by comparison to independent markets and, in many cases, may not be realizable in a current sale of the instrument. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
Fair value estimates do not include anticipated future business or the value of assets, liabilities and customer relationships that are not considered financial instruments. For example, our fee-generating businesses are not incorporated into the fair value estimates. Other significant assets and liabilities that are not considered financial instruments include lease finance assets, deferred tax assets, lease contracts, premises and equipment, and intangible assets.
We used the following methods and assumptions in estimating the fair value of our financial instruments at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005.
Short-term financial instruments
The carrying amounts reported on our balance sheet generally approximate fair value for financial instruments that reprice or mature in 90 days or less, with no significant change in credit risk. The carrying amounts approximate fair value for:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trading account securities, securities available for sale and investment securities
Trading account securities and securities available for sale are recorded at market value on our balance sheet. Market values of trading account securities, securities available for sale and investment securities in many instances are based on quoted market prices or dealer quotes, if available. If a quoted market price is not available, market value is estimated using quoted market prices for securities with similar credit, maturity and interest rate characteristics. The tables in Note 6 of Notes to Financial Statements present in greater detail the carrying value and market value of securities available for sale and investment securities at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005.
Loans
The estimated fair value of commercial loans and certain personal loans that reprice or mature in 90 days or less approximates their respective carrying amounts. The estimated fair value of loans that reprice or mature in more than 90 days is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, adjusting where appropriate for prepayment estimates, using interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality and for similar maturities.
Deposit liabilities
SFAS No. 107 defines the estimated fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, which includes demand deposits and money market and other savings accounts, to be the amount payable on demand. Although market premiums paid for depository institutions reflect an additional value for these low-cost deposits, SFAS No. 107 prohibits adjusting fair value for any value expected to be derived from retaining those deposits for a future period of time or from the benefit that results from the ability to fund interest-earning assets with these deposit liabilities. The fair value of fixed-maturity deposits which reprice or mature in more than 90 days is estimated using current rates.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Notes and debentures, and junior subordinated debentures
The fair value of our notes and debentures, and junior subordinated debentures is estimated using quoted market yields for the same or similar issues or the current yields offered by Mellon for debt with the same remaining maturities.
Unfunded commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees
These financial instruments generally are not sold or traded, and estimated fair values are not readily available. However, the fair value of commitments to extend credit is represented by the remaining contractual fees receivable over the term of the commitments. The fair values of standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees is represented by the amount of the receivable on the balance sheet. Unfunded commitments to extend credit, and standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees are discussed further in Note 26 of Notes to Financial Statements.
Derivative instruments used for trading and interest rate risk management purposes
Receivables and payables related to derivative instruments are determined by using quoted market prices or valuation models that incorporate current market data.
Summary
The following table includes financial instruments, as defined by SFAS No. 107, whose estimated fair value is not represented by the carrying value as reported on our balance sheet except for receivables and payables related to derivative instruments, which are presented in the table for supplementary information. The carrying amount and estimated fair values of unfunded commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees are not significant. We have made estimates of fair value discount rates that we believe to be reasonable considering expected prepayment rates, credit risk and liquidity risk. However, because there is no active market for many of these financial instruments, we have no basis to verify whether the resulting fair value estimates would be indicative of the value negotiated in an actual sale.
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
30. Proposed merger with The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
On Dec. 3, 2006, Mellon entered into an agreement to merge with The Bank of New York Company, Inc., which would create an asset servicer with, on a pro forma basis, more than $17 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $8 trillion in assets under corporate trusteeship and over $1.1 trillion in assets under management at Dec. 31, 2006. The Bank of New York is headquartered in New York City and employs approximately 23,000.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, a new company will be formed, to be called The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, in which Mellon shareholders will receive one share of common stock for each share of Mellon common stock outstanding on the closing date and The Bank of New York shareholders will receive .9434 shares of common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding on the closing date. The parties anticipate that the new company will record a restructuring charge of approximately $1.3 billion, pre-tax, a portion of which will be capitalized at the close of the transaction, with the remaining incurred over a 3 year period.
Mellon has entered into a stock option agreement with The Bank of New York, in which Mellon has granted The Bank of New York an option to purchase up to 82,641,656 shares of Mellon common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $40.05 or the closing sale price of Mellon common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may The Bank of New York acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of Mellon common stock under this stock option agreement. The Bank of New York cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving Mellon and a third party.
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire Mellon prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, Mellon may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of Mellon common stock purchased by The Bank of New York under the option at a predetermined price, or The Bank of New York may choose to surrender the option to Mellon for a cash payment of $725 million. In no event will the total profit received by The Bank of New York with respect to this option exceed $825 million.
Mellon has entered into a stock option agreement with The Bank of New York, in which The Bank of New York has granted Mellon an option to purchase up to 149,621,546 shares of The Bank of New York's common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $35.48 or the closing sale price of The Bank of New York's common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may Mellon acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of The Bank of New York's common stock under this stock option agreement. Mellon cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving The Bank of New York and a third party.
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire The Bank of New York prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, The Bank of New York may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of The Bank of New York's common stock purchased by Mellon under the option at a predetermined price, or Mellon may choose to surrender the option to The Bank of New York for a cash payment of $1.15 billion. In no event will the total profit received by Mellon with respect to this option exceed $1.3 billion.
The board of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the merger agreement and adopted a resolution recommending the adoption of the merger agreement by its respective shareholders. Each party has agreed to put these matters before their respective shareholders for consideration. Subject to satisfaction of various conditions of closing, the merger is currently expected to close early in the third quarter of 2007.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
31. Mellon Financial Corporation (Parent Corporation)
 
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
32. Supplemental information to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Noncash investing and financing transactions that, appropriately, are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are listed below.
 
33. International operations
Foreign activity includes asset management and asset servicing fee revenue generating businesses, foreign exchange trading activity, loans and other revenue producing assets and transactions in which the customer is domiciled outside of the United States and/or the foreign activity is resident at a foreign entity. We have approximately 2,800 employees at non-U.S. locations (excluding joint ventures), principally in the United Kingdom and other European countries. Due to the nature of our foreign and domestic activities, it is not possible to precisely set apart the foreign and domestically domiciled customers. As a result, it is necessary to make certain subjective assumptions such as:
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
International assets, revenue, continuing income from international operations before income taxes and continuing income from international operations are shown in the following table.
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Mellon Financial Corporation:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Mellon Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Mellon Financial Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Corporation changed its method of accounting for employer defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans effective December 31, 2006, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Mellon Financial Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 22, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 22, 2007
 
Mellon Financial Corporation

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
Comprehensive income for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 was $414 and $367. See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
1. General
The accounting and reporting policies of The Bank of New York Company, Inc., a financial holding company, and its consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company") conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and general practice within the banking industry. Such policies are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the Company's annual financial statements.
The Company provides a complete range of banking and other financial services to corporations and individuals worldwide through its business segments: Asset and Wealth Management, Institutional Services, and Other. "Business Segment Accounting Principles" and "Segment Financial Data" are incorporated from the Business Segment Review section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Company's Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"). There were no major customers from whom revenues were individually material to the Company's performance.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements are unaudited. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods have been made. Certain other reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with current period presentation.
2.
Accounting Changes and New Accounting Pronouncements
The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123 ("SFAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," in 1995. At that time, as permitted by the standard, the Company elected to continue to apply the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB 25"), "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and accounted for the options granted to employees using the intrinsic value method, under which no expense is recognized for stock options because they were granted at the stock price on the grant date and therefore have no intrinsic value.
On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value method of accounting for its options under SFAS 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148 ("SFAS 148"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure." SFAS 148 permitted three different methods of adopting fair value: (1) the prospective method, (2) the modified prospective method, and (3) the retroactive restatement method. Under the prospective method, options issued after January 1, 2003 are expensed while all options granted prior to January 1, 2003 are accounted for under APB 25 using the intrinsic value method. Consistent with industry practice, the Company elected the prospective method of adopting fair value accounting.
During the three months ended March 31, 2007, approximately 5.6 million options were granted. In the first quarters of 2007 and 2006, the Company recorded $14 million and $10 million of stock option expense.
The fair value of options granted in 2007 and 2006 were estimated at the grant date using the following weighted average assumptions:
 
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) ("SFAS 123(R)"), "Share-Based Payment," which is a
revision of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS 123(R) eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using APB 25 and requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair value-based method. SFAS 123(R) covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) on January 1, 2006 using the "modified prospective" method. Under this method, compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123(R) for all share-based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123(R) that remain unvested on the effective date. As of January 1, 2006, the Company was amortizing all of its unvested stock option grants.
Certain of the Company's stock compensation grants vest when the employee retires. SFAS 123(R) requires the completion of expensing of new grants with this feature by the first date the employee is eligible to retire. For grants prior to January 1, 2006, the Company will continue to expense them over their stated vesting period. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) increased pre-tax expense in 2006 by $12 million.
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155 ("SFAS 155"), "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments", an amendment of SFAS 140 and SFAS 133. SFAS 155 permits the Company to elect to measure any hybrid financial instrument at fair value if the hybrid instrument contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation and be accounted for separately under SFAS 133. SFAS 155 clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133 and that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a remeasurement event after December 31, 2006. On January 17, 2007, the FASB issued Derivative Implementation Groups ("DIG") Issue B40 which impacts how SFAS 155 is applied. The adoption of SFAS 155 and DIG Issue B40 did not have a significant impact on the Company's investment activities.
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") FAS 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leverage Lease Transaction," revising the accounting guidance under SFAS No. 13 ("SFAS 13"), "Accounting for Leases," for leveraged leases. This FSP modifies existing interpretations of SFAS 13 and associated industry practice. As a result in 2007, the Company recognized a one-time after-tax charge to equity of $389 million related to a change in the timing of its lease cash flows due to the LILO settlement. See "Commitments and Contingent Liabilities" in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. However, an amount approximating this one-time charge will be taken into income over the remaining term of the affected leases. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company recognized an after-tax income of $2 million. Since the Company has not yet reached a settlement with the IRS related to LILOs originated in 1998, the charge to equity was estimated assuming a December 31, 2007 settlement date. The portion of the one-time charge related to 1998 LILOs will be taken into income between the settlement date and the end of the lease term.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 ("SFAS 157"), "Fair Value Measurements." SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and expands additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 clarifies that fair value is the amount that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants. SFAS 157 nullifies the consensus reached in EITF Issue No. 02-3 prohibiting the recognition of day one gain or loss on derivative contracts (and hybrid instruments measured at fair value under SFAS 133 as modified by SFAS 155) where the Company cannot verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market data and verify the model to market transactions. However, SFAS 157 requires that a fair value measurement technique include an adjustment for risks inherent in a particular valuation technique (such as a pricing
model) and/or the risks inherent in the inputs to the model if market participants would also include such an adjustment. SFAS 157 will require the Company to consider the effect of its own credit standing in determining the fair value of its liabilities. In addition, SFAS 157 prohibits the recognition of "block discounts" for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available in an active market. The requirements of SFAS 157 are to be applied prospectively, except for changes in fair value measurements that result from the initial application of SFAS 157 to existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue No. 02-3, existing hybrid instruments measured at fair value, and block discounts, which are to be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 157.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plansan amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158"). SFAS 158 requires the Company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan's overfunded status or a liability for a plan's underfunded status, (b) measure a plan's assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the fiscal year, (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income) and (d) provide additional disclosure. The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements are effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer's fiscal year-end statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a charge to equity of $264 million.
In 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertain tax positions in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN 48 requires that a tax position meet a "more-likely-than-not threshold" for the benefit of the uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements. A tax position that fails to meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold will result in either reduction of current or deferred tax assets, and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. The impact of adoption in 2007 was a charge to equity of $27 million. See "Income Taxes" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to FIN 48.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 ("SFAS 159"), "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." SFAS 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value and to provide additional information that will help investors and other users of financial statements to understand more easily the effect on earnings of the company's choice to use fair value. It also requires companies to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the company has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 159 along with SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008 and is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 159.
Certain other prior year information has been reclassified to conform its presentation with the 2007 financial statements.
3. Acquisitions and Dispositions
The Company continues to be a selective acquirer of securities servicing and asset management businesses.
In the first quarter of 2007, the Company acquired certain clearing and custody relationships rights for cash. The Company frequently structures its acquisitions with both an initial payment and a later contingent payment tied to post-closing revenue or income growth. The Company records the fair value of contingent payments as an additional cost of the entity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable.
Goodwill and tax-deductible portion of goodwill related to completed acquisitions in the first quarter of 2007 was zero. At March 31, 2007, the Company was liable for potential contingent payments related to acquisitions in the amount of $130 million. Cash paid or accrued for acquisitions and contingent payments was $89 million in the first quarter of 2007.
2007
In January 2007, certain clearing and custody relationships rights were acquired by the Company's Pershing subsidiary. The transaction involved 46 organizations, comprised of 30 registered investment advisor firms and 16 introducing broker-dealer firms.
In March 2007, the Company sold its 49 percent stake in joint venture BNY Mortgage Co. to EverBank Financial Corp. The transaction is consistent with the Company's recent strategic moves to focus on asset management and securities servicing.
In April 2007, the Company agreed to sell its 30% equity investment in RBS International Securities Services (Holdings) Limited to BNP Paribas Securities Services.
2006
On October 1, 2006, the Company sold its Retail Business to JPMorgan Chase for the net asset value plus a premium of $2.3 billion. JPMorgan Chase sold its corporate trust business to the Company for the net asset value plus a premium of $2.15 billion. The difference between premiums resulted in a net cash payment of $150 million to the Company. There is also a contingent payment of up to $50 million to the Company tied to customer retention. For further details, see "Discontinued Operations" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
JPMorgan Chase's corporate trust business comprised issues representing $5 trillion in total debt outstanding. It had 2,400 employees in more than 40 locations globally. Prior to the acquisition, the Company's corporate trust business comprised issues representing $3 trillion in total debt outstanding and had 1,300 employees in 25 locations globally.
The Company's retail bank consisted of 338 branches in the Tri-State region, serving approximately 700,000 consumer households and small businesses with $13 billion in deposits and $9 billion in assets at September 30, 2006. The Company's regional middle market businesses provided financing, banking and treasury services for middle market clients, serving more than 2,000 clients in the Tri-State region. Together, the units had 4,000 employees located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Delaware.
The transaction further increases the Company's focus on the securities services and wealth management businesses that have fueled the Company's growth in recent years and that are at the core of its long-term business strategy.
The Company recorded an after-tax gain of $1,381 million on the sale of the Retail Business. The Company also expects to incur after-tax charges of $150 million related to the acquisition. The transaction is expected to be dilutive to GAAP earnings per share through 2009 (4.5 percent in 2007 to 1.5 percent in 2009), but to be accretive to cash earnings per share in 2009 when cost savings are fully phased in.
On a pro forma basis, if the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business had occurred on January 1, 2006, the transaction would have had the following impact:
 
The pro forma results are based on adding the pre-tax historical results of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business to the Company's results and adjusting for amortization of intangibles created in the transaction and taxes. The pro forma data does not include adjustments to reflect the Company's operating costs or expected differences in the way funds generated by the Acquired Corporate Trust Business are invested. The pro forma data is intended for informational purposes and is not indicative of the future results of operations.
The Company's transaction with JPMorgan Chase altered the composition of the balance sheet. When the Acquired Corporate Trust Business is fully integrated in 2007, approximately $14 billion of U.S. dollar retail deposits will have been replaced with between $11 billion and $14 billion of institutional corporate trust deposits. Between $7 billion and $10 billion of deposits related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business have not yet transitioned to the Company. These deposits will transition to the Company as regulatory approval is received to operate in certain foreign locations and as the novation process proceeds in other foreign locations. The Company expects the transition will be substantially complete by June 30, 2007. Until the transition is complete, JPMorgan Chase will pay the Company for the net economic value of these deposits. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company recorded $25 million of net economic value payments in noninterest income, compared with $23 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. On the asset side of the balance sheet, approximately $8 billion of retail and middle market loans included in the sale of the Retail Business have been replaced with liquid assets and securities. Goodwill and intangibles related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business were approximately $2.3 billion.
On October 2, 2006, the Company completed the transaction resulting in the formation of BNY ConvergEx Group. BNY ConvergEx Group brought together BNY Securities Group's trade execution, commission management, independent research and transition management business with Eze Castle Software, a leading provider of trade order management and related investment technologies. This transaction enabled the Company to achieve several objectives including repositioning its execution services business for faster growth and enhancing the product offering for the Company's client base, while allowing the Company to withdraw capital committed to the business.
BNY ConvergEx Group is a leading global agency brokerage and technology company offering a complete spectrum of pre-trade, trade, and post-trade solutions for traditional money managers, hedge funds, broker-dealers, corporations and plan sponsors. BNY ConvergEx Group has a global presence in New York, Boston, San Francisco, Chicago, Dallas, Stamford, London, Bermuda, Tokyo, Hong Kong, and Sydney.
The Company and GTCR Golder Rauner, LLC each hold a 35 percent stake in BNY ConvergEx Group, with the balance held by Eze Castle Software's investors and BNY ConvergEx Group's management team. BNY ConvergEx Group, with pro forma 2005 revenues of approximately $340 million, is an affiliate of The Bank of New York and is reflected on the Company's financial statements as an equity investment. After the use of the proceeds to repurchase shares, the transaction is expected to be neutral to earnings per share.
The BNY Securities Group businesses included in BNY ConvergEx Group are BNY Brokerage, Lynch, Jones & Ryan, G-Port, Westminster Research and BNY Jaywalk. In addition, The Bank of New York's B-Trade and G-Trade businesses are expected to become part of BNY ConvergEx Group in 2008, although in the interim they will continue to be owned by The Bank of New York.
On December 1, 2006, the Company sold its transfer agency software business, Rufus, to Bravura Solutions Limited ("Bravura"), a leading global supplier of wealth management applications and professional services, for approximately $38 million. Under the agreement, Bravura acquired all of the software and intellectual property comprising Rufus, and all existing employees will transfer to Bravura.
On December 3, 2006, the Company and Mellon entered into a definitive agreement to merge, creating the world's largest securities servicing and asset management firm. The new company, which will be called The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, will be the world's leading asset servicer with Assets under Custody and Administration expected to exceed $18 trillion and the world's leading corporate trustee with assets under trusteeship expected to exceed $8 trillion. It will rank among the top 10 global asset managers with assets under management expected to exceed $1.1 trillion.
The combined company is expected to have annual revenues of more than $12 billion, with approximately 28% derived from asset servicing, 38% from issuer services, clearing and execution services and treasury services, and 29% from asset and wealth management. By the end of 2008, the Company is expected to generate over $1 billion tangible capital per quarter. It will be well positioned to capitalize on global growth trends, including the evolution of emerging markets, the growth of hedge funds and alternative asset classes, the increasing need for more complex financial products and services, and the increasingly global need for people to save and invest for retirement. Almost a quarter of combined revenue will be derived internationally.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company's shareholders will receive 0.9434 shares in the new company for each share of the Company that they own and Mellon shareholders will receive one share in the new company for each Mellon share they own.
To induce Mellon to enter into the merger agreement, the Company granted Mellon an option to purchase up to 149,621,546 shares of the Company's common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $35.48 and the closing sale price of the Company's common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may Mellon acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock under this stock option agreement. Mellon cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving the Company and a third party.
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire the Company prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, the Company may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of the Company's common stock purchased by Mellon under the option at a predetermined price, or Mellon may choose to surrender the option to the Company for a cash payment of $1.15 billion. In no event will the total profit received by Mellon with respect to this option exceed $1.3 billion.
To induce the Company to enter into the merger agreement, Mellon granted the Company an option to purchase up to 82,641,656 shares of Mellon common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $40.05 and the closing sale price of Mellon common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may the Company acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of Mellon common stock under this stock option agreement. The Company cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving Mellon and a third party.
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire Mellon prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, Mellon may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of Mellon common stock purchased by the Company under the option at a predetermined price, or the Company may choose to surrender the option to Mellon for a cash payment of $725 million. In no event will the total profit received by the Company with respect to this option exceed $825 million.
On December 19, 2006, the Company acquired the remaining 50% stake in AIB/BNY Securities Services (Ireland) Ltd. (AIB/BNY) that it did not own from Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. ("AIB"). AIB/BNY was established in 1995 as a joint venture between AIB and the Company to provide a range of services for a number of fund structures domiciled in Ireland. At acquisition, AIB/BNY had $210 billion assets under administration and employed 600 staff in its Dublin and Cork offices.
4. Discontinued Operations
On October 1, 2006, the Company acquired JPMorgan Chase's corporate trust business and JPMorgan Chase acquired the Company's Retail Business. The Company adopted discontinued operations accounting for its Retail Business. Also included in the sales agreement are provisions related to transitional services that will be provided for a period of up to 8 months after closing, subject to extensions. The results from continuing operations exclude the results of the Company's Retail Business and include the operations of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business only after October 1, 2006.
Results for all the Retail Business are reported separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of the businesses sold are included in assets of discontinued operations held for sale and liabilities of discontinued operations held for sale on the consolidated balance sheet. Net interest income has been computed by allocating investment securities and federal funds sold and related interest income to discontinued operations to match the amount and duration of the assets sold with the amount and duration of the liabilities sold.
Summarized financial information for discontinued operations related to the Retail Business is as follows:
 
Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations held for sale as of March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 were not significant.
5. Goodwill and Intangibles
Goodwill by reportable segment is as follows:
 
The changes in goodwill during the first quarter of 2007 were as follows:
 
 
Intangible Assets
 
The aggregate amortization expense of intangibles was $28 million and $13 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for current intangibles for the next five years is as follows:
 
6. Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level that, in management's judgment, is adequate to absorb probable losses associated with specifically identified loans, as well as estimated probable credit losses inherent in the remainder of the credit portfolio at the balance sheet date. Management's judgment includes the following factors, among others: risks of individual credits; past experience; the volume, composition, and growth of the credit portfolio; and economic conditions.
The Company conducts a quarterly portfolio review to determine the adequacy of its allowance for credit losses. All commercial loans over $1 million are assigned to specific risk categories. Smaller commercial and consumer exposures are evaluated on a pooled basis and assigned to specific risk categories. Following this review, senior management of the Company analyzes the results and determines the allowance for credit losses. The Company's Board of Directors reviews the allowance at the end of each quarter.
The portion of the allowance for credit losses allocated to impaired loans (nonaccrual commercial loans over $1 million) is measured by the difference between their recorded value and fair value. Fair value is determined by one of the following: present value of the expected future cash flows from borrowers, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral. See "Critical Accounting Policies" and "Allowance" in the MD&A section for additional information.
Commercial loans are placed on nonaccrual status when collateral is insufficient and principal or interest is past due 90 days or more, or when there is reasonable doubt that interest or principal will be collected. Accrued interest is usually reversed when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. Interest payments received on nonaccrual loans may be recognized as income or applied to principal depending upon management's judgment. Nonaccrual loans are restored to accrual status when principal and interest are current or they become fully collateralized. Consumer loans are not classified as nonperforming assets, but are charged off and interest accrued is suspended based upon an established delinquency schedule determined by product. Real estate acquired in satisfaction of loans is carried in other assets at the lower of the recorded investment in the property or fair value minus estimated costs to sell.
Transactions in the allowance for credit losses are summarized as follows:
 
7. Other Assets
 
8. Net Interest Income
 
9. Capital Transactions
The Company has 5 million authorized shares of Class A convertible preferred stock having a par value of $2.00 per share. At December 31, 2006, 3,000 shares were outstanding. On January 22, 2007, the Company redeemed 300 shares of Class A convertible preferred stock at a per share redemption price of $25 plus accrued dividends of $11.03. The remaining 2,700 shares were converted into Company common stock with shareholders receiving 7.39644 shares of Company common stock for each share of Class A convertible preferred stock.
In addition to the Class A preferred stock, the Company has 5 million authorized shares of preferred stock having no par value, with no shares outstanding at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.
On April 10, 2007, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of 22 cents per share payable May 4, 2007 to shareholders of record on April 25, 2007.
The Company repurchased 363,080 shares of the Company's common stock in the first quarter of 2007.
10. Earnings Per Share
The following table illustrates the computations of basic and diluted earnings per share:
 
11. Employee Benefit Plans
The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:
 
12. Income Taxes
The statutory federal income tax rate is reconciled to the Company's effective income tax rate below:
 
The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48 ("FIN 48"), "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109," on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company recognized a $27 million increase in its liability for uncertain tax benefits ("Tax Reserves"), which reduced the January 1, 2007, retained earnings balance. The Company's total Tax Reserves as of the date of adoption were $250 million. If these Tax Reserves were unnecessary, $174 million would affect the effective tax rate in future periods and $76 million would impact deferred taxes. Included in the above Tax Reserves is accrued interest and penalties, where applicable, of $31 million. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties, if applicable, related to income taxes in income tax expense.
The Company's federal consolidated income tax returns are closed to examination through 1995. Although the IRS has completed its examination for 1996 and 1997, at this time a formal revenue agent's report has not been received. The Company believes it is unlikely that there will be any changes to those years that would affect the Tax Reserves. The IRS is currently examining the Company's
consolidated income tax returns for tax years 1998 through 2002. The Company's New York State and New York City return examinations have been completed through 1993. New York State and New York City are currently examining the Company's tax returns for the years 1994 through 1996. The Company's United Kingdom income tax returns are closed through 1999.
The Company has Tax Reserves related to transactions occurring in the years 1998 through 2002 that are currently under examination by the IRS. The outcome of such examination is not yet determinable. Additionally, the Company has Tax Reserves for uncertain tax benefits associated with certain tax credits. The Company does not expect that the resolution of these and other issues over the next twelve months will have a material impact on its financial statements.
13. Derivatives and Hedging Relationships
Derivative contracts, such as futures contracts, forwards, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and options and similar products used in trading activities, are recorded at fair value. The Company does not recognize gains or losses at the inception of derivative transactions if the fair value is not determined based upon observable market transactions and market data. Gains and losses are included in foreign exchange and other trading activities in noninterest income. Unrealized gains and losses are reported on a gross basis in trading account assets and trading liabilities, after taking into consideration master netting agreements.
The Company enters into various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes primarily as part of its asset/liability management ("ALM") process. These derivatives are designated as fair value and cash flow hedges of certain assets and liabilities when the Company enters into the derivative contracts. Gains and losses associated with fair value hedges are recorded in income as well as any change in the value of the related hedged item. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. If a derivative used in ALM does not qualify as a hedge it is marked to market and the gain or loss is included in net interest income.
The Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Company formally assesses both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective and whether those derivatives are expected to remain highly effective in future periods. The Company evaluates ineffectiveness in terms of amounts that could impact a hedge's ability to qualify for hedge accounting and the risk that the hedge could result in more than a de minimus amount of ineffectiveness. At inception, the potential causes of ineffectiveness related to each of its hedges is assessed to determine if the Company can expect the hedge to be highly effective over the life of the transaction and to determine the method for evaluating effectiveness on an ongoing basis. Recognizing that changes in the value of derivatives used for hedging or the value of hedged items could result in significant ineffectiveness, the Company has processes in place designed to identify and evaluate such changes when they occur. Quarterly, the Company performs a quantitative effectiveness assessment and records any ineffectiveness.
The Company utilizes interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. For hedges of fixed-rate loans, asset-backed securities, deposits and long-term debt, the hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a fixed rate item and is a fair value hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to eliminate fair value variability by converting fixed rate interest payments to LIBOR.
The fixed-rate loans hedged generally have a maturity of 9 to 12 years and are not callable. These loans are hedged with "pay fixed rate, receive variable rate" swaps with similar notional amounts, maturities, and fixed rate coupons. The swaps are not callable. At March 31, 2007, $42 million of loans were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $42 million.
The securities hedged generally have a weighted average life of 10 years or less and are callable six months prior to maturity. These securities are hedged with pay fixed rate, receive variable rate swaps of like maturity, repricing and fixed-rate coupon. The swaps are callable six months prior to maturity. At March 31, 2007, $227 million of securities were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $227 million.
The fixed-rate deposits hedged generally have original maturities of 1 to 12 years (21% are one year deposits) and, except for three deposits, are not callable. These deposits are hedged with receive fixed rate, pay variable rate swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are not callable except for the three that hedge the callable deposits. At March 31, 2007, $880 million of deposits were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $880 million.
The fixed-rate long-term debt hedged generally has an original maturity of 4 to 30 years. The Company issues both callable and non- callable debt. The non-callable debt is hedged with simple interest rate swaps similar to those described for deposits. Callable debt is hedged with callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt. At March 31, 2007, $6,212 million of debt was hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $6,237 million.
In addition to the fair value hedges discussed above, the Company has two cash flow hedges utilizing interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in expected future cash flows attributable to floating rates on an a deposit and a long-term debt issue. The hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging future variable interest payments and is a cash flow hedge, that the hedge exposure is the variability in interest payments, and that the strategy is to eliminate variability by converting floating rate interest payments to fixed payments. For cash flow hedges the interest rate swap is marked to market with the changes in value recorded in other comprehensive income. The amount recognized as other comprehensive income for the cash flow hedge is reclassified to net interest income as interest is realized on the hedged item.
The deposit hedged has a principal amount of $275 million and has a LIBOR based floating rate and an 18 month original maturity. The deposit is hedged with a receive LIBOR, pay fixed rate swap with the same maturity and interest payment dates as the deposit to eliminate the variability in interest payments on the deposit. During the next twelve months, net losses of less than $1 million (pre-tax) included in other comprehensive income are expected to be reclassified to income.
The long-term debt hedged has a principal amount of $400 million and has a LIBOR based floating rate and a 2 year original maturity. The debt is hedged with a receive LIBOR, pay fixed rate swap with the same maturity and interest payment dates as the debt to eliminate the variability in interest payments on the debt. During the next twelve months, net losses of less than $2 million (pre-tax) included in other comprehensive income are expected to be reclassified to income.
In addition, the Company enters into foreign exchange hedges. The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts with maturities of 12 months or less to hedge its Sterling and Euro foreign exchange exposure with respect to forecasted expense transactions in non-U.S. entities which have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. As of March 31, 2007, the hedged forecasted foreign currency transactions and linked foreign exchange forward hedges were $93 million with $3 million (pre-tax) gains recorded in other comprehensive income. These gains are expected to be reclassified to expense over the next nine months.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of the Company's investments in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts have a maturity of less than six months. The derivatives employed are designated as net investment hedges of changes in value of the Company's foreign investment due to exchange rates, such that changes in value of the forward exchange contracts offset the changes in value of the foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The change in fair market value of these contracts is deferred and reported within accumulated translation adjustments in shareholders' equity, net of tax effects. At March 31, 2007, foreign exchange contracts, with notional amounts totaling $1,894 million, were designated as hedges of corresponding amounts of net investments.
The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when it determines that a derivative is no longer an effective hedge, the derivative expires or is sold, or management discontinues the derivative's hedge designation.
Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was recorded in income as follows:
 
Other includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges.
14. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding which are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Management does not expect any material losses to result from these matters.
The Company's significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are securities, foreign currency and interest rate risk management products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications. The Company assumes these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide customers with the ability to meet credit and liquidity needs, to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks, and to trade for its own account. These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, foreign exchange, and interest rate risk not recognized in the balance sheet. The Company's off-balance sheet risks are managed and monitored in manners similar to those used for on-balance sheet risks. There are no significant industry concentrations of such risks.
A summary of the notional amount of the Company's off-balance sheet credit transactions, net of participations, at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 follows:
 
The total potential loss on undrawn commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The allowance for lending-related commitments at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 was $135 million and $150 million.
A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (the Company) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days. The Company generally lends securities with indemnification against broker default. The Company generally requires the borrower to provide 102% cash collateral which is monitored on a daily basis, thus reducing credit risk. Security lending transactions are generally entered into only with highly-rated counterparties. At March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, securities lending indemnifications were secured by collateral of $407.3 billion and $405.5 billion, respectively.
Standby letters of credit principally support corporate obligations and include $1.1 billion that were collateralized with cash and securities on March 31, 2007 and $1.0 billion on December 31, 2006. At March 31, 2007, approximately $6.8 billion of the standby letters of credit will expire within one year, and the remaining balance will expire between one to five years.
The notional amounts for other off-balance sheet risks (See "Trading Activities" in the MD&A section) express the dollar volume of the transactions; however, credit risk is much smaller. The Company performs credit reviews and enters into netting agreements to minimize the credit risk of foreign currency and interest rate risk management products. The Company enters into offsetting positions to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Other
The Company has provided standard representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to its provision of financial services. Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of these risks. The Company is a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities, or other transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other partners do not honor their obligations. It is not possible to estimate a maximum potential amount of payments that could be required with such agreements.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company makes certain investments that have tax consequences. From time to time, the IRS may question or challenge the tax position taken by the Company. The Company engaged in certain types of structured cross-border leveraged leasing investments, referred to as "LILOs", prior to mid-1999 that the IRS has challenged. In 2004, the IRS proposed adjustments to the Company's tax treatment of these transactions. On February 28, 2006, the Company settled this matter with the IRS relating to LILO transactions closed in 1996 and 1997. The settlement did not affect 2006 net income, as the impact of the settlement was fully reserved.
The Company's 1998 leveraged lease transactions are in a subsequent audit cycle and were not part of the settlement. The Company believes that a comparable settlement for 1998 may be possible, given the similarity between these leases and the settled leases. However, negotiations are ongoing and the treatment of the 1998 leases may still be litigated if an acceptable settlement cannot be reached. Under current U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, if the 1998 leases are settled on a basis comparable to the 1996 and 1997 leases, the Company would not expect the settlement of the 1998 leases to have an impact on net income, based on existing reserves.
In the fourth quarter of 2005 the Company deposited funds with the IRS in anticipation of reaching a settlement on all of its LILO investments.
On February 11, 2005, the IRS released Notice 2005-13, which identified certain lease investments known as "SILOs" as potentially subject to IRS challenge. The Company believes that certain of its lease investments entered into prior to 2004 may be consistent with transactions described in the notice. Although it is likely the IRS will challenge the tax benefits associated with these leases in 2007, the Company remains confident that its tax treatment of the leases complied with statutory, administrative and judicial authority existing at the time they were entered into.
In 2001 and 2002, the Company entered into various structured transactions that involved, among other things, the payment of U.K. corporate income taxes that were credited against the Company's U.S. corporate income tax liability. The IRS is currently reviewing these transactions and it is likely that some or all of the credits will be challenged upon completion of the review. If necessary the Company will vigorously defend its position and believes that any tax benefits associated with these transactions were consistent with the applicable statutory, judicial and administrative authority.
The Company currently believes it has adequate tax reserves to cover its LILO exposure and any other potential tax exposures, based on a probability assessment of various potential outcomes. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when appropriate.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and potential legal actions, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are asserted in certain of these actions and proceedings. Due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Company cannot ascertain what the eventual outcome of these matters will be; however, based on current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel, the Company does not believe that judgments or settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal actions or regulatory matters, either individually or in the aggregate, after giving effect to applicable reserves, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Company although they could have a material effect on net income for a given period. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously against all of the claims asserted in these legal actions.
See discussion of contingent legal matters in the "Legal and Regulatory Proceedings" section.

Exhibit 99.5
PART IFINANCIAL INFORMATION
Item 1. Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT (unaudited)
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
2    Mellon Financial Corporation
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (unaudited)
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation    3
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited)
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
4    Mellon Financial Corporation
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (unaudited)
(and its subsidiaries)
Mellon Financial Corporation
 
See accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation    5
Table of Contents
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1  Basis of presentation and informational disclosures
Basis of presentation
The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Mellon Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with Mellon's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the financial position and results of operations for the periods covered have been included. In addition to reclassifications related to discontinued operations and reclassifications in connection with the realignment of business sectors described below, other reclassifications are occasionally made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
For details of guarantees, see "Other guarantees and indemnities" in the table on page 37, and the paragraphs under the subheading "Other guarantees and indemnities" on pages 37 and 38. The information in the table and those paragraphs are incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
As part of the planning process for the integration of Mellon and The Bank of New York after the closing of the proposed merger, during the first quarter of 2007 we realigned our business sectors, creating the Issuer Services and Treasury Services sectors and eliminating the Payment Solutions & Investor Services (PS&IS) sector. The Issuer Services sector consists of Mellon Investor Services (stock transfer), which was previously included in the PS&IS sector. The Treasury Services sector consists of Working Capital Solutions (global cash management) and Mellon Financial Markets (capital markets), both previously included in the PS&IS sector, as well as Mellon Institutional Banking (large corporate banking), which was previously included in the Other sector. All prior periods have been reclassified for these changes. In addition, we renamed the Mellon Asset Management sector to Asset Management and the Private Wealth Management sector to Wealth Management. There were no changes to the Asset Servicing sector. These changes did not affect the operations of these business lines or net income.
In addition, several new line items have been created and/or renamed on the income statement and balance sheet:
Income statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6    Mellon Financial Corporation
Table of Contents
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Balance sheet:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All prior periods have been reclassified. The reclassifications did not affect the results of operations or net income.
Pension and other postretirement benefits
SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and other Postretirement Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106" requires interim period disclosures of the components of net periodic benefit cost.
Mellon expects to make cash contributions to its funded defined benefit pension plans, principally outside the U.S., of approximately $13 million for the remainder of 2007. Cash contributions totaled $4 million in the first quarter of 2007.
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation    7
Table of Contents
(continued)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Note 2  Contingent and deferred consideration related to acquisitions
There were no acquisitions completed during the first quarter of 2007. Additional consideration of $22 million for prior acquisitions was paid in the first quarter of 2007, including $20 million for DPM Mellon.
We record contingent purchase payments when amounts are determinable. Amounts generally become determinable and payable when an acquisition reaches a certain level of performance. At March 31, 2007, we are potentially obligated to pay contingent additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures, could range from approximately $145 million to $350 million over the next three years. None of the potential contingent additional consideration was recorded as goodwill at March 31, 2007.
Mellon owns 70% of Mellon Financial Services Asset Management S.A., a Brazilian institutional asset management and asset servicing company. The minority interest owners have attempted to exercise certain put rights, which obligate our subsidiary to purchase the remaining 30% of the company. The purchase price, as defined, is based on the levels of assets under management and administration, among other things. The minority interest owners and Mellon disagree on the computation of the purchase price. This dispute is in binding arbitration. We offered $6 million for the remaining 30% of the company and the minority interest owners made an initial request of $61 million, based upon exchange rates at March 31, 2007.
Note 3  Adoption of new accounting interpretation and staff position
FIN No. 48-Taxes
Effective Jan. 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes"an Interpretation of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FASB defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by a taxing authority. The term "more-likely-than-not" means a likelihood of more than 50%. The impact of adopting FIN No. 48 was a direct increase to the beginning balance of our retained earnings of approximately $11 million and reported as a change in accounting principle. Pursuant to FIN No. 48, we will continue to record interest and penalties on income tax assessments as income tax expense. As of the date of adoption, we have approximately $18 million of interest accrued for potential income tax exposures and $37 million of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate. Over the next 12 months, Mellon estimates it may increase state tax reserves by approximately $10 million for various state tax positions expected to be taken in the current year and may decrease federal tax reserves by approximately $3 million for issues that may no longer warrant a tax reserve following a settlement with the IRS for the years 1994 to 2003. Years subject to examination include Federal income taxes from 2004 to present, California from 2000 to present, Massachusetts from 2001 to present, New York state from 2002 to present and the United Kingdom from 2001 to present.
FSP 13-2 Taxes
Effective Jan. 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction." FSP 13-2 amends SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases," by requiring lessors to recalculate the rate of return and periodic income allocation for leveraged lease transactions when there is a change or projected change in the timing of income tax cash flows related to leases. The Staff Position requires lessors to reassess projected income tax cash flows using a FIN No. 48 model for recognition and measurement. The impact of adopting FSP 13-2 was a direct reduction to the beginning balance of our retained earnings of approximately $17 million and reported as a change in accounting principle.
 
8    Mellon Financial Corporation
Table of Contents
(continued)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Note 4  Discontinued operations
In the first quarter of 2007, a $9 million after-tax net gain on disposals was recorded, resulting primarily from the sale of our insurance premium financing company, AFCO Credit Corporation, and its Canadian affiliate, CAFO, Inc.
In August 2006, we announced a definitive agreement to sell AFCO and CAFO. It was determined that this business no longer fit our strategic focus on our asset management and asset servicing businesses. The sale closed on Jan. 2, 2007 resulting in a $12 million after-tax net gain in the first quarter of 2007. In the third quarter of 2006, we applied discontinued operations accounting to this business and the income statements for all periods were restated. The restatement primarily resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels of net interest revenue and the net interest margin; a slight reduction in financing-related fee revenue; a reduction in noninterest expenses; and a slight change in continuing earnings per share for certain periods.
In December 2006, Mellon sold its ownership interest in the direct and indirect portfolios of Mellon Ventures, our venture capital business. This decision was based upon the determination that this business no longer fit our strategic focus on our asset management and asset servicing businesses. A substantial portion of the sale was completed in December 2006 with subsequent closings during the first quarter of 2007. An additional $5 million after-tax loss on the sale of this business was recorded in the first quarter of 2007, resulting primarily from an adjustment to the carrying value of a receivable recorded as part of the settlement of the transaction. We applied discontinued operations accounting to this business in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the income statements for all periods were restated. This restatement resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels of asset/investment income; a reduction in noninterest expenses; an increase in net interest revenue; and a change in continuing earnings per share.
 
In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), the results of the businesses discussed above are reflected as discontinued operations in all income statements presented. Because the lines of business included in discontinued operations were discrete lines of business serving classes of customers no longer served by Mellon's continuing lines of business, the disposition of these businesses is not expected to have a material impact on continuing operations going forward.
All information in these Financial Statements and Notes reflects continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation    9
Table of Contents
(continued)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Note 5  Securities
 
Note: There were no gross realized gains or gross realized losses on sales of securities available for sale in the first quarter of 2007. At March 31, 2007 and Dec. 31, 2006, securities issued by the U.S. Government and its agencies and U.S. Government sponsored agencies (shown in the table above) exceeded 10% of shareholders' equity. At March 31, 2007 and Dec. 31, 2006, there were no other issuers that exceeded 10% of shareholders' equity.
 
10    Mellon Financial Corporation
Table of Contents
(continued)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Mellon's portfolio of mortgage-backed securities is 100% AAA- rated.
Temporarily impaired securities
The unrealized loss of $122 million at March 31, 2007 is related to the movement in interest rates. Nearly all of the securities with unrealized losses are AAA-rated or carry government agency guarantees. Approximately 93% of the unrealized losses on these 1,028 investments have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than 12 months. Management believes the collection of the contractual principal and interest is probable and therefore all unrealized losses are considered to be temporary. As shown in the table on the previous page, unrealized gains totaled $57 million in the available-for-sale and investment portfolios at March 31, 2007.
Note 6  Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
The following table shows the changes to goodwill, by business sector, for the first quarter of 2007.
 
Acquired intangible assets
 
We amortize intangible assets over their estimated useful lives. During the first three months of 2007, the net carrying amount of acquired intangible assets decreased $10 million as amortization expense of $12 million was partially offset by the effect of foreign exchange rates on non-U.S. dollar denominated intangible assets.
Based upon the current level of intangible assets, the estimated annual amortization expense for the years 2007 through 2012 is as follows:
 
 
Mellon Financial Corporation    11
Table of Contents
(continued)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
At March 31, 2007, $929 million of goodwill and acquired intangible assets is tax deductible and $1.943 billion is non-tax deductible.
Note 7  Other assets
 
Note 8  Long-term debt
At March 31, 2007 and Dec. 31, 2006, Long-term debt included notes and debentures (with original maturities over one year) of $3.648 billion and $3.641 billion, respectively, and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities of $1.414 billion and $1.412 billion, respectively.
Note 9  Net interest revenue
 
Note 10  Business sectors
For details of our business sectors, see the paragraphs under "Business sectors" on page 26, the tables and paragraphs on page 27 and the paragraphs on page 28, as well as the "Other sector" section on page 34 through the paragraph discussing economic capital. The tables and information in those paragraphs are incorporated by reference into these Notes to Financial Statements.
 
12    Mellon Financial Corporation
Table of Contents
(continued)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Note 11  Supplemental information to the consolidated statement of cash flows
 
Note 12  Legal proceedings
A discussion of legal actions and proceedings against Mellon and our subsidiaries and certain former subsidiaries is presented in Part II, Item 1, of this Form 10-Q.
Note 13  Proposed merger with The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
On Dec. 3, 2006, Mellon entered into an agreement to merge with The Bank of New York Company, Inc., which would create a securities servicing and asset management company with, on a pro forma basis, as of March 31, 2007, more than $18 trillion in assets under custody and administration and over $1.2 trillion in assets under management. The Bank of New York is headquartered in New York City and employs approximately 23,000.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, which was amended and restated on Feb. 23, 2007 and again on March 30, 2007, Mellon and The Bank of New York will each merge into a new company called The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, in which Mellon shareholders will receive one share of common stock for each share of Mellon common stock outstanding on the closing date and The Bank of New York shareholders will receive .9434 shares of common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding on the closing date. The parties anticipate incurring merger and integration related costs of approximately $1.3 billion over a three year period, of which $19 million was incurred by Mellon in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the first quarter of 2007. A portion of these costs will be recorded as goodwill at the close of the transaction.
Mellon has entered into a stock option agreement with The Bank of New York, in which Mellon has granted The Bank of New York an option to purchase up to 82,641,656 shares of Mellon common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $40.05 or the closing sale price of Mellon common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may The Bank of New York acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of Mellon common stock under this stock option agreement. The Bank of New York cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving Mellon and a third party.
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire Mellon prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, Mellon may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of Mellon common stock purchased by The Bank of New York under the option at a predetermined price, or The Bank of New York may choose to surrender the option to Mellon for a cash payment of $725 million. In no event will the total profit received by The Bank of New York with respect to this option exceed $825 million.
Mellon has entered into a stock option agreement with The Bank of New York, in which The Bank of New York has granted Mellon an option to purchase up to 149,621,546 shares of The Bank of New York's common stock at a price per share equal to the lesser of $35.48 or the closing sale price of The Bank of New York's common stock on the trading day immediately preceding the exercise date; but in no case may Mellon acquire more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of The Bank of New York's
common stock under this stock option agreement. Mellon cannot exercise the option unless specified triggering events occur. These events generally relate to business combinations or acquisition transactions involving The Bank of New York and a third party.
 
Mellon Financial Corporation    13
Table of Contents
(continued)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The option could have the effect of discouraging a third party from trying to acquire The Bank of New York prior to completion of the transaction or termination of the merger agreement. Upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, The Bank of New York may be required to repurchase the option and/or any shares of The Bank of New York's common stock purchased by Mellon under the option at a predetermined price, or Mellon may choose to surrender the option to The Bank of New York for a cash payment of $1.15 billion. In no event will the total profit received by Mellon with respect to this option exceed $1.3 billion.
The board of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the merger agreement and adopted a resolution recommending the adoption of the merger agreement by its respective shareholders. Each party has agreed to put these matters before their respective shareholders for consideration. Subject to satisfaction of various conditions of closing, the merger is currently expected to close early in the third quarter of 2007.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation filed a registration statement containing a joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger with the SEC in late February and filed amendments to the joint proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC in April. The SEC declared the registration statement effective on April 17, 2007. Mellon and The Bank of New York commenced mailing the joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective shareholders on April 19, 2007. Mellon and The Bank of New York will hold separate special shareholder meetings on May 24, 2007 to approve the merger and related matters. April 12, 2007 is the record date for shareholders entitled to vote at the special shareholders meetings.
 
14    Mellon Financial Corporation

Exhibit 99.6
The following Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet combines the respective historical Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. ("Bank of New York") and Mellon Financial Corporation ("Mellon Financial") giving effect to the transaction as if it had been completed on March 31, 2007. The pro forma balance sheet assumes that the proposed transaction is accounted for as a purchase of Mellon Financial by Bank of New York and, accordingly, includes adjustments to record assets and liabilities of Mellon Financial at their estimated fair values, which are subject to further adjustment as additional information becomes available and additional analyses are performed. The related pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
The following Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and year ended December 31, 2006 combine the respective historical Consolidated Statements of Income of Bank of New York and Mellon Financial giving effect to the proposed transaction as if it had become effective at January 1, 2006 as an acquisition by Bank of New York of Mellon Financial using the purchase method of accounting and giving effect to the related pro forma adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Financial Information.
We anticipate that the proposed transaction will provide The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("Newco") with financial benefits that include reduced operating expenses. The pro forma information does not reflect the benefits of expected cost savings, opportunities to earn additional revenue, the impact of restructuring and transaction-related costs and, accordingly, does not attempt to predict or suggest future results. It also does not necessarily reflect what the historical results of Newco would have been had the proposed transaction been completed during these periods.
The unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information and notes are presented for illustrative purposes only. They include various estimates, which are subject to material change, and may not necessarily be indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have occurred if the proposed transaction had been consummated as of the applicable date or which may be attained in the future. This pro forma financial information and notes should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified in their entirety by, the historical financial statements, including the notes thereto, of Bank of New York and Mellon Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1: PURCHASE BUSINESS COMBINATION
The transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of Mellon Financial by Bank of New York using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the assets and liabilities of Mellon Financial will be recorded at their respective fair values on the date the transaction is completed. The transaction will be effected by the issuance of Newco common stock, $0.01 par value, to Bank of New York shareholders and Mellon Financial shareholders. Each share of Bank of New York common stock will be exchanged for 0.9434 shares of Newco common stock, and each share of Mellon Financial common stock will be exchanged for one share of Newco common stock. The shares of Newco common stock issued to effect the transaction will be recorded at $39.86 per share. This amount was determined by averaging the closing price of Bank of New York common stock for the two trading days before the December 4, 2006 announcement of the transaction and the two trading days after the announcement of the transaction (which includes the day of the announcement), and dividing by the Bank of New York exchange ratio.
If a Bank of New York shareholder would otherwise be entitled to a fractional share of Newco common stock, cash will be issued instead of such fractional share of Newco common stock; the pro forma financial statements do not present an estimate of such cash, which is not expected to be material and will be funded by cash on hand.
The pro forma financial information includes estimated adjustments to record certain assets and liabilities of Mellon Financial at their respective fair values. Bank of New York and Mellon Financial are in the process of reviewing their accounting and reporting policies and, as a result of this review, it may be necessary to further reclassify the company's financial statements to conform to those classifications that are determined by the combined company to be most appropriate (see Notes 8 and 9). While some reclassifications of prior periods have been included in the unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information, further reclassifications may be necessary upon the completion of this review. Material intercompany transactions have been eliminated from the unaudited pro forma combined consolidated financial information. The pro forma adjustments are subject to updates as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed.
We expect to realize increased revenue and reduced operating expenses following the transaction which are not reflected in this pro forma financial information. No assurance can be given with respect to any level of such increased revenue and reduced operating expenses.
The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after the transaction is completed and after thorough analyses to determine the fair values of Mellon Financial's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the date the transaction is completed. Any change in the fair value of the net assets of Mellon Financial will change the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill. Additionally, changes to Mellon Financial's equity, including dividends and net income from April 1, 2007 through the date the transaction is completed, will also change the amount of goodwill recorded. The final adjustments may be materially different from the unaudited pro forma adjustments presented herein.
The goodwill recorded in connection with the transaction is not subject to amortization and none is deductible for tax purposes. The customer relationships, customer contract-based and core deposit intangibles will be amortized over their estimated economic lives based on the pattern of usage or consumption, if determinable. Any additional intangibles that are identified in connection with the transaction will be amortized in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, such that any with an indefinite life will not be subject to amortization, and any with a finite economic life will be amortized over the estimated useful life.
Bank of New York and Mellon Financial are in the process of determining the appropriate methodology to allocate the goodwill, customer relationships, deposit base and other indefinite-lived intangibles to reportable segments and expect to finalize the analysis after the completion of the transaction.
NOTE 2: PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The pro forma financial information for the transaction is included as of March 31, 2007 and for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2006. The pro forma adjustments in the pro forma financial statements reflect the right of each Mellon Financial shareholder to receive one share of Newco common stock for each share of Mellon Financial common stock held by such holder of record, based on the number of shares of Mellon Financial common stock that were outstanding on March 31, 2007. The unaudited pro forma financial information presented in the pro forma financial statements is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of Newco.
The pro forma balance sheet adjustments reflect the issuance of 1.132 billion shares of Newco common stock with an aggregate par value of $11 million; an increase in paid-in capital of $15.2 billion as shown in Note 4; goodwill of $11.5 billion as shown in Note 3; and customer relationships and customer contract-based, core deposit and other indefinite-lived intangibles of $2.2 billion, $0.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. Also included in the pro forma balance sheet adjustments is an increase in other liabilities, which includes estimated exit costs of $200 million, transaction costs of $45 million, other purchase accounting accruals and an increase of $1.7 billion in deferred income taxes.
When the transaction is completed, Bank of New York options will be exchanged for stock options in Newco and the option price per share will be adjusted for the 0.9434 exchange ratio.
Mellon Financial options will be exchanged for stock options in Newco and the option price per share will not be adjusted as the exchange ratio is one Mellon Financial share for one Newco share. All unvested Mellon Financial options granted prior to December 4, 2006 will be accelerated upon approval of the transaction, except for those for which waivers to acceleration were elected. Vested stock options issued by Newco in exchange for options held by employees and directors of Mellon Financial are considered part of the purchase price. Accordingly, the purchase price includes an estimated fair value of stock options of $344 million.
The fair value of Newco options that will be issued in exchange for Mellon Financial options was estimated by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with market assumptions. Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective market assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, which if changed can materially affect fair value estimates. The more significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value include volatility of 22 percent, a dividend yield of 2.36 percent, an expected life of 50-75 percent of the remaining contractual terms and a risk-free interest rate for U.S. government bonds having a remaining life equal to the respective options' expected lives.
The estimated exit cost liabilities assumed in the transaction consist principally of personnel-related costs, which include involuntary termination benefits for Mellon Financial employees to be severed in connection with the transaction, relocation costs for continuing Mellon Financial employees and costs to cancel contracts of Mellon Financial that will provide no future benefit to Newco. The estimated $200 million of exit cost liabilities include only those costs associated with Mellon Financial. Bank of New York estimated transaction costs of $45 million are included in goodwill.
During the three months ended March 31, 2007 and year ended December 31, 2006, Bank of New York and Mellon Financial acquired businesses or portions of businesses which are included herein only from the date of completion. Additional information, including selected pro forma information, related to acquisitions of Bank of New York may be found in Note 3, Acquisitions and Dispositions, to its consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
NOTE 3: PURCHASE PRICE AND GOODWILL
The computation of the purchase price, the allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of Mellon Financial based on fair values estimated at March 31, 2007, the estimated intangibles and the resulting amount of goodwill follows:
 
See Note 5 for footnote explanations.
 
NOTE 4: PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
The pro forma adjustments related to shareholders' equity on the pro forma combined consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2007, are presented below.
 
NOTE 5: PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(A) Adjustment to write off historical Mellon Financial goodwill and intangibles from prior acquisitions.
(B) Adjustment to fair value Mellon Financial's held-to-maturity investment securities. The adjustment will be recognized over the respective remaining terms of the securities, which have a weighted average life of 3.7 years. The impact of the adjustment to pro forma interest income would have been less than $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the three months ended March 31, 2007.
(C) Adjustment to fair value Mellon Financial's loan and lease portfolios. The adjustment to loans will be recognized over the respective remaining terms of the loans, which have a weighted average life of 1 year. The adjustment to lease finance assets in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 21 ( ) adjusts the lease finance assets carrying value to the present value of after-tax cash flows using current yields, as well as reverses the deferred tax liability that had previously been recorded on these lease finance assets by Mellon Financial. The adjustment to lease finance assets will be recognized over the respective remaining terms of the leases, which have a weighted average remaining life of 8 years. The estimated impact of the adjustment of loans and leases, assuming the transaction had been completed on January 1, 2006, would be an increase in interest income of $12 million, $13 million, $13 million, $14 million and $14 million for the years 2006 through 2010, respectively, and an increase of $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007. Based on current information regarding Mellon Financial's loan portfolio, there are no material estimated differences between the contractual cash flows and the cash flows expected to be collected attributable to credit quality; accordingly, no such adjustment was applied. The pro forma adjustment reduces the reserve for losses on lease finance assets by $10 million to reflect the base credit reserve that would be recorded on the adjusted carrying value of the lease finance assets.
Accounting for Leases in a Business Combination
(D) Adjustment to fair value Mellon Financial premises and equipment. The impact of the adjustment to pro forma net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense would have been less than $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and three months ended March 31, 2007.
(E) Adjustment to record goodwill and identifiable intangible assets resulting from the transaction based on estimated fair values as summarized in Note 3. The adjustments reflected in this prospectus supplement are based on current assumptions, valuations and estimated lives, which are subject to change. Material changes to these estimates are possible when the analysis is completed. For purposes of the pro forma adjustments shown here, management has estimated $4.6 billion of identifiable intangibles. The pro forma amortization expense of the estimated customer relationship, customer contract-based and core deposit intangible assets with estimable lives are estimated based on a pattern consistent with the assets' identifiable cash flows, and the amortization expense of non-compete agreements is estimated using a straight-line method. The initial estimates of the fair values, amortization expense and lives are as follows:
 
 
(F) Adjustment of $663 million to fair value Mellon Financial's investments in four strategic joint ventures, recorded in Other assets.
(G) Adjustment of $116 million to record in Other assets the favorable impact of operating leases compared to current market rates for the remainder of the lease terms. The estimated impact of the adjustment to current market rates, assuming the transaction had been completed on January 1, 2006, would be an increase in net occupancy expense of approximately $17 million in 2006, $18 million for each of the years from 2007-2010 and $5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007.
(H) Adjustment to fair value Mellon Financial's term deposit liabilities based on current interest rates for similar instruments. The adjustment will be recognized over the weighted average estimated remaining term of the related deposit liabilities of 0.3 years. This adjustment increases pro forma interest expense by $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and less than $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007.
(I) Adjustment to fair value Mellon Financial's notes, debentures and junior subordinated debentures, all of which are included as Long-term debt in the Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet. The adjustment will be recognized over the respective remaining lives of the instruments, which have a weighted average life of 9.8 years. The estimated impact of the $95 million pro forma adjustment of long-term debt, assuming the transaction had been completed on January 1, 2006, would be decreases in interest expense of $18 million, $13 million, $12 million, $7 million and $5 million for the years 2006 through 2010, respectively, and a decrease of $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007. These were estimated using a straight-line basis over the respective remaining maturities of the long-term debt instruments. These pro forma adjustments do not reflect any impact from the effect of the debt to be issued under this prospectus supplement or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(J) Adjustment to reverse $89 million of accrued liabilities related to Mellon Financial's operating leases with either free rent periods or "step-up" annual lease payments that were recorded under SFAS No. 13 (Accounting for Leases). Under SFAS No. 13, the expense related to operating leases with lease payments increasing subsequent to the date of the completion of the transaction will be recorded on a straight-line basis over the respective leases' remaining terms. The accrual increased $20 million from January 1, 2006 to March 31, 2007; accordingly, no pro forma adjustment to reduce rental expense is presumed to have occurred for the three months ended March 31, 2007 or the year ended December 31, 2006.
(K) Adjustment to increase the fair value of Mellon Financial's pension liability by $9 million for the effect of a pre-existing change of control provision for certain employees in Mellon Financial's pension plan. The $56 million decrease to pro forma staff expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes (1) a decrease of $58 million for the amortization of prior service cost and recognized net actuarial loss on pensions and amortization of transition obligation on postretirement benefits other than pensions recognized by Mellon Financial in 2006 and (2) a pro forma increase of $2 million for the service and interest components of expense that would have been recorded in 2006 for the effect of the pre-existing change of control provision for certain employees. The pro forma adjustments for the three months ended March 31, 2007 was estimated at approximately one fourth of the annual estimate. Additional analyses and actuarial valuations will be performed by the combined company's actuaries after the transaction, and these estimates may be subject to material change. The adjustments reflected herein do not reflect any effects from restructuring the combined company workforce.
(L) Adjustment to record the tax effects of the pro forma adjustments in the Balance Sheet, except the adjustment to lease finance assets (as described in Note C above), using a combined federal, state and foreign tax rate of 38 percent.
(M) Adjustment to record as liabilities the estimated exit costs related to Mellon Financial and transaction costs incurred by Bank of New York, both of which are included in the estimated $1.3 billion of merger and
 
integration costs, discussed further in Note 6. The estimated exit costs will include severance (including the effect of change in control provisions in Mellon Financial's displacement program) and relocation costs of continuing Mellon Financial employees, costs to cancel contracts of Mellon Financial that will provide no future benefit to Newco, and other costs. Also included in the pro forma adjustment is $45 million for Bank of New York's investment banking, attorney and independent accountant fees, and other transaction-related costs.
(N) Adjustment to record the fair value of Mellon Financial's employees' stock options and directors' stock options and deferred share units. The fair value of Mellon Financial's options to be exchanged for Newco options was estimated using a Black-Scholes pricing model. Option pricing models require the use of highly subjective assumptions including expected stock price and volatility that, when changed, can materially affect fair value estimates. The more significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value include volatility of 22 percent, a dividend yield of 2.36 percent, an expected life of 50 to 75 percent of the remaining contractual terms and a risk-free interest rate for U.S. government bonds having a remaining life equal to the respective options' expected lives.
(O) Adjustment to increase staff expense resulting from the revaluation of Mellon Financial's unvested awards, primarily for those individuals who elected to waive acceleration of vesting. The original valuations of these awards were determined by Mellon Financial at the original grant dates. Upon completion of the transaction, these awards will be revalued using current market assumptions. The unrecognized compensation expense for these stock-based awards and those issued in the three months ended March 31, 2007 was $114 million at March 31, 2007. Annual compensation expense related to these awards is expected to be greater than historic compensation expense due to the increase in the value of the awards upon remeasurement. For unvested stock options, the average remaining vesting period is 4.5 years and the average remaining contractual life is 9.7 years. For unvested restricted stock awards, the average remaining vesting period is 2.4 years. Pursuant to FAS 123(R), unvested awards are not considered a component of purchase price and are solely recognized in compensation expense in future periods.
(P) Adjustment to eliminate intercompany assets and liabilities. These include: (i) $11 million of Mellon Financial junior subordinated debentures, included in long-term debt, which were included in securities available for sale by Bank of New York, (ii) $3 million of Mellon Financial trading liability recorded as a trading asset receivable by Bank of New York, (iii) $3 million of Mellon Financial cash and due from banks and held in deposits by Bank of New York, and (iv) $6 million of miscellaneous receivables/payables in other assets and other liabilities. The amount of interest earned on the junior subordinated debentures for the period held in 2006 and 2007 as an investment was less than $1 million, and the revenue and expense related to the other items described above was de minimis.
(Q) Weighted average shares of Newco were calculated using the historical weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2006 of Bank of New York shares adjusted using the exchange ratio of 0.9434 and Mellon Financial shares using the 1:1 exchange ratio. Earnings per share data have been computed based on the combined historical income from continuing operations of Bank of New York and Mellon Financial and the impact of pro forma purchase accounting adjustments.
(R) Adjustment to eliminate merger and integration expenses recorded by Mellon Financial and Bank of New York related to the transaction.
(S) Adjustment to reverse amortization expense of intangible assets recorded in Mellon Financial's historical financial statements.
(T) Adjustment to eliminate intercompany revenue and expenses for Clearing services and Asset servicing paid by Mellon Financial to Bank of New York.
 
(U) The adjustment included in the pro forma tax provision related to lease finance assets includes the taxes that would be recorded for these assets based on the new carrying value as described in Note C above, rather than the 38% statutory provision for combined federal, state and foreign taxes used for all other pro forma adjustments.
NOTE 6: MERGER AND INTEGRATION EXPENSE
In connection with the transaction, Bank of New York and Mellon Financial have begun to develop their preliminary plans for post-merger integration of their operations. Over the next several months, the specific details of these plans will be refined. Bank of New York and Mellon Financial are currently in the process of assessing the two companies' personnel, benefit plans, premises, equipment, computer systems and service contracts to determine where they may take advantage of redundancies or where it will be beneficial or necessary to convert to one system.
Certain decisions arising from these assessments may involve involuntary termination of employees, vacating leased premises, canceling contracts with certain service providers and selling or otherwise disposing of certain premises or equipment. To the extent these decisions relate to Mellon Financial employees, assets or contracts, the costs associated with such decisions as permitted will be recorded as purchase accounting adjustments, which have the effect of increasing the amount of the purchase price allocable to goodwill. It is expected that all such costs will be identified and recorded within one year of completion of the transaction and all such actions required to effect these decisions would be taken within one year after finalization of these plans. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet includes a preliminary estimate of such liabilities of $200 million. See Notes 2, 3 and 5 for additional disclosures.
To the extent these decisions relate to Bank of New York employees, assets or contracts, these exit and disposal costs would be recorded in accordance with FASB Statement Nos. 146 and 112 in the results of operations of Newco in the period incurred.
Newco also expects to incur transaction-related expenses in the process of combining the operations of the two companies. These transaction-related expenses may include system conversion costs, employee retention arrangements and costs of incremental communications to customers and others. It is expected that the exit and disposal costs along with the transaction-related costs will be incurred over a three-year period after completion of the transaction. These expenses are not included in the Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Consolidated Income Statement because these costs will be recorded in the combined results of operations as they are incurred after completion of the transaction and are not indicative of what the historical results of Newco would have been had Bank of New York and Mellon Financial actually been combined during the periods presented.
Preliminarily, we estimate that the total of Mellon Financial's exit costs, Bank of New York's transaction and restructuring costs and Newco's integration costs will be approximately $1.3 billion.
NOTE 7: DIVIDENDS
Following the completion of the transaction, it is anticipated that Newco will initially pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.235 per share. Prior to the completion of the transaction, Bank of New York intends to maintain its $0.22 per share regular quarterly dividend. Prior to the completion of the transaction, Mellon Financial intends to maintain regular quarterly dividends at a rate not to exceed $0.22 per share.
NOTE 8: RECLASSIFICATIONS TO BANK OF NEW YORK INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006
 
 
Reclassification adjustments to conform Bank of New York categories with the Newco Income Statement presentation:
 
NOTE 9: RECLASSIFICATIONS TO MELLON FINANCIAL INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006
 
 
Reclassification adjustments to conform Mellon Financial categories with the Newco Income Statement presentation:
 


