FILE:BK/BK-8K-20080124132919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On January 17, 2008, the Registrant conducted a conference call and webcast with respect to results of operations for full year 2007 and fourth quarter 2007 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. In conjunction with the conference call and webcast, the Registrant made available on its website, beginning on January 17, 2008, a Quarterly Earnings Summary. The Quarterly Earnings Summary is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report, is "furnished" pursuant to General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933.
ITEM 9.01.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains information which may be considered to constitute "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K. The Registrant's management believes that these measures are useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of ongoing operations. Management believes that they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which management monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items are also excluded from the Registrant's segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance in accordance with GAAP because management does not consider them particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
All narrative comparisons in this Quarterly Earnings Summary are with the fourth quarter of 2006 and all information is reported on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise noted.
Throughout this Quarterly Earnings Summary, certain measures, which are noted, exclude certain items, including the impact of the extraordinary item in 4Q07. We believe these measures are useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of ongoing operations. We believe they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which our management monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items are also excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance in accordance with GAAP because management does not consider them particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments. Pro forma combined financial results for The Bank of New York Mellon prior to the consummation of the merger exclude the pro forma impact of incremental purchase accounting including intangible amortization resulting from the merger.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
A number of statements (i) in this Quarterly Earnings Summary, (ii) in our presentations and (iii) in the responses to questions are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, the Corporation's future financial goals, including future revenue, expenses and earnings, new business wins, and pipelines for new business; matters relating to the consolidation of TRFC, including future earnings generated by its assets, funding costs, impact on adjusted tangible common equity ratio and impact on income; statements with respect to the merger integration, including revenue synergies and targeted run rates, expense synergy targets, estimated merger and integration charges, anticipated completion date for the bank consolidation; credit strategy; and the expected closing date of the ARX Capital Management acquisition, as well as BNY Mellon's overall plans, strategies, goals, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions, and are based on assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the businesses of Mellon and The Bank of New York may not be integrated successfully or the integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; the combined company may not realize, to the extent or at the time we expect, revenue synergies and cost savings from the transaction; service quality metrics in Asset Servicing may not be attained; revenue following the transaction may be lower than expected as a result of losses of customers or other reasons; deposit attrition, operating costs, customer loss and business disruption following the transaction, including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, may be greater than expected; changes in political and economic conditions; changes in the relevant benchmark to measure changes in investment management fees; equity, fixed-income and foreign exchange market fluctuations; changes in the mix of assets under management; changes in the mix of deposits; the price of oil; the effects of the adoption of new accounting standards; corporate and personal customers' bankruptcies; market volatility; operational risk; inflation; levels of tax-free income; technological change; success in the timely development of new products and services; competitive product and pricing pressures within the Corporation's markets; consumer spending and savings habits; interest rate fluctuations; geographic sources of income; monetary fluctuations; acquisitions and integrations of acquired businesses; changes in law; changes in fiscal, monetary, regulatory, trade and tax policies and laws; success in gaining regulatory approvals when required; the effects of terrorist acts and the results of the war on terrorism; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the filings of the Corporation with the SEC and in The Bank of New York's and Mellon's historical reports (such as Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K) filed with the SEC. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of Jan. 17, 2008 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The results prior to the consummation of the merger on July 1, 2007, reflect the sum of The Bank of New York and Mellon's historical results, but do not include the pro forma impact of purchase accounting adjustments. The business sector combined results for all periods reflect actions taken to report consistent transfer pricing and cost allocation methodologies as well as intercompany eliminations between The Bank of New York and Mellon. As a result of actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2007, the business sector results for the first, second and third quarters of 2007 reflect revisions from results reported in the third quarter of 2007 Combined Quarterly Earnings Summary to reflect consistent reporting. We have completed the harmonization process for the business sectors.
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER 2007 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (vs. fourth quarter 2006)
 
KEY POINTS Pro forma Combined Basis
(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in market value of assets under management from Sept. 30, 2007 to Dec. 31, 2007 - by business sector
 
 
 
FEE AND OTHER REVENUE
 
N/M - Not meaningful.
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
NET INTEREST REVENUE
 
 
bp - basis points.
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
 
 
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
 
N/M - Not meaningful.
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
At Dec. 31, 2007, investment securities totaled $48.7 billion. As of that date, our mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolio of $41.6 billion (excluding TRFC securities) were rated 96% AAA, 3% AA, and 1% A. Included in this portfolio were $379 million of collateralized debt obligations (CDO), at par, that contained subprime exposure. Based on deteriorating conditions in the U.S. housing market, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $200 million ($118 million after-tax) for other than temporary impairment related to these securities. The $179 million carrying value of the CDOs at Dec. 31, 2007 was 47% of par.
In the third quarter of 2007, we acquired $375 million of asset-backed securities in a structured investment vehicle (SIV) from a portfolio advised by one of our asset managers. During the fourth quarter of 2007, $75 million of these securities matured and we sold $174 million of these securities, resulting in a pre-tax loss of $8 million. We applied a similar discount to the $126 million of remaining securities which resulted in a write-down of $6 million. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we acquired additional SIV securities with a fair market value of $45 million from affiliated funds. The $165 million carrying amount of remaining SIV securities at Dec. 31, 2007 was 88% of par.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, we sold other investment securities available for sale, recognizing a pre-tax gain of $23 million.
As of Dec. 31, 2007, within our investment securities portfolio, our mortgage-backed securities with subprime exposure were $1.5 billion (excluding TRFC securities) and asset-backed collateralized debt obligations as described above were $179 million. Ratings on these securities are below:
 
The unrealized net of tax loss on our securities available for sale was $339 million at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $250 million at Sept. 30, 2007. At Dec. 31, 2006, the unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale netted to zero.
 
 
CONSOLIDATION OF THREE RIVERS FUNDING CORPORATION (TRFC)
On Dec. 31, 2007 we called the first loss notes of TRFC, making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the consolidation of TRFC. If we had not called the first loss notes, TRFC would not have been consolidated under FIN46R. The consolidation resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary loss (non-cash accounting charge) of $180 million after-tax, or 16 cents per share, representing the current mark to market discount from par associated with spread widening for the assets in TRFC.
Strategically TRFC is not core to our focus on high growth global opportunities in Asset Management and Securities Servicing; it had an immaterial impact on our consolidated financial results, generating only $1 million in fee revenue in the third quarter of 2007. Furthermore, the continuing disruption in the capital markets negatively impacted TRFC funding costs and related returns, which was in sharp contrast to our funding costs and balance sheet strength. This consolidation improves the profitability of this portfolio and eliminates a management distraction.
In addition to the extraordinary loss, the size of the 2007 year-end balance sheet increased by the full amount of third party funding, approximately $4.0 billion. At Dec. 31, 2007, we held the remaining funding of $136 million. Our primary capital ratios were affected as follows by the consolidation:
 
Prospectively, based on our excess liquidity, the third party funding for TRFC will be eliminated over the course of the first quarter of 2008 resulting in an expected improvement in our adjusted tangible common equity ratio of approximately 10 bps during the first quarter of 2008.
Also prospectively, the $180 million after-tax mark to market on the TRFC assets is expected to be accreted into income over the remaining lives of the assets, which are projected to average approximately 4-5 years, based on the credit quality of the assets.
The fair value of TRFC's asset-backed securities portfolio totaled approximately $3.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. In addition to these securities, TRFC has approximately $400 million of securitizations of client receivables that are structured to meet a credit rating of A. Below are TRFC's asset and mortgage-backed securities by credit rating.
 
We will integrate these securities into our investment securities portfolio in the first quarter of 2008.
 
 
NONPERFORMING LOANS
Nonperforming loans were $186 million at Dec. 31, 2007, up from $37 million at Dec. 31, 2006 and up from $35 million at Sept. 30, 2007. The increase relates principally to liquidity facilities to two SIVs ($81 million), a related party loan provided to support an investment management product that is currently being unwound and various smaller loans. The SIV exposure added to nonperforming loans represents all of the SIV exposure within our loan portfolio.
PROVISION AND RESERVE FOR CREDIT EXPOSURE
The provision for credit losses totaled $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared with a credit of $15 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 and no provision in the third quarter of 2007. In the third quarter of 2007, there was no net provision which was made possible in part by a $15 million release of reserves from the sale of leases. The reserve for loan losses was $327 million at Dec. 31, 2007, $332 million at Sept. 30, 2007 and $287 million at Dec. 31, 2006. The reserve for unfunded commitments was $167 million at Dec. 31, 2007, $178 million at Sept. 30, 2007 and $150 million at Dec. 31, 2006.
INSTITUTIONAL CREDIT STRATEGY
 
 
 
Merger Update - Integration Milestones
 
 
 
 
4) Service Quality Goals for 2010-Asset Servicing
- Global Custodian Survey  BNY Mellon #1 rated custodian among the large custodian peer group (released January 2008)
5) Consolidation of Banks - anticipate completion by early 3Q08
 
 
 
BUSINESS SECTORS
(provides asset management services through a number of asset management companies to institutional and individual investors)
ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
 
KEY POINTS
 
 
(provides investment management, wealth management and banking services to high-net-worth individuals, families and charitable gift programs, foundations and endowments)
WEALTH MANAGEMENT
 
 
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(provides institutional trust and custody and related services and broker-dealer services to global financial institutions, corporate and public retirement funds and foundations and endowments)
ASSET SERVICING
 
 
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(provides corporate trust, depositary receipt and shareowner services to corporations and institutions)
ISSUER SERVICES
 
 
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(provides clearing, execution, financing and custody services for introducing broker-dealers and registered investment advisors)
CLEARING AND EXECUTION SERVICES
 
 
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(provides global payment services, working capital solutions, global markets and institutional banking services, including lending)
TREASURY SERVICES
 
 
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
(primarily includes business exits and Corporate Treasury activities, merger and integration charges, and other corporate revenue and expense items)
OTHER SEGMENT
 
 
 
KEY POINTS
 
 
 
Further Note
As a result of actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2007, the business sector results for the first, second and third quarters of 2007 reflect revisions from results reported in the third quarter of 2007 Combined Quarterly Earnings Summary to reflect consistent reporting. We have completed the harmonization process for the business sectors.
 
 
SUMMARY OF NON-OPERATING ITEMS
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION -RECONCILIATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE  GAAP TO NON-GAAP
Reported amounts are presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that this supplemental non-GAAP information is useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of our business. We believe they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which our management internally monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items are also excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance because management does not consider them particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.
 
Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements
As previously reported, net income for 2006 and retained earnings at Dec. 31, 2006 reflect a non-cash charge to discontinued operations income taxes and a reduction to goodwill of $164 million, correcting the information originally reported.
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION  TREND OF EARNINGS PER SHARE ON A GAAP AND NON-GAAP BASIS
In the merger transaction between The Bank of New York and Mellon, The Bank of New York shareholders received .9434 shares of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. Mellon shareholders received one share of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock for each share of Mellon common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. Historical earnings per share for The Bank of New York are presented in post-merger share count terms in this Quarterly Earnings Summary and the Earnings Release. The table below converts earnings per share for The Bank of New York into post-merger share count terms, for periods prior to July 1, 2007. See page 21 for a discussion of use of supplemental non-GAAP information.
 
 


