FILE:BK/BK-8K-20080612161025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Thomas A. Renyi, Executive Chairman of the registrant, and the registrant have mutually agreed that Mr. Renyi will retire as Executive Chairman and as a director of the registrant, effective July 31, 2008.
In light of Mr. Renyi's services to the registrant since the merger of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. ("BNY Co.") and Mellon Financial Corporation into the registrant on July 1, 2007, the registrant has agreed to provide to Mr. Renyi the benefits which under Section 4(b) of Mr. Renyi's Service Agreement dated June 25, 2007 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to BNY Co.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 29, 2007 and incorporated herein by reference) would have been payable if Mr. Renyi's service with the registrant had continued until January 1, 2009. This will include payment of a full annual cash bonus for the year 2008, based upon actual performance for the year. In addition, the registrant has agreed to provide for an additional five months of vesting, until January 1, 2009, under Mr. Renyi's April 2, 2007 restricted share unit and stock option agreements.
Pursuant to the registrant's By-Laws, upon Mr. Renyi's retirement, Robert P. Kelly, Chief Executive Officer of the registrant, will become Chairman of the Board of Directors. Steven G. Elliott, Senior Vice Chairman of the registrant, has notified the registrant that, in accordance with provisions of the registrant's By-Laws requiring that upon Mr. Renyi's retirement the registrant's Board of Directors be reduced in number from eighteen to sixteen members, Mr. Elliott will resign as a director of the registrant effective upon Mr. Renyi's retirement. Mr. Elliott will remain as Senior Vice Chairman of the registrant.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


