FILE:BK/BK-8K-20080418131000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 17, 2008 the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for first quarter 2008 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. However, the references in the press release to the Registrant's website, /, shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K. The information included herein is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated by reference into all filings made by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which state that this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated therein by reference.
http://www.bnymellon.com
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE:BK) today reported income from continuing operations of $749 million, or $0.65 per share, in the first quarter of 2008. This compares to income from continuing operations of $437 million, or $0.61 per share, in the first quarter of 2007 and $700 million, or $0.61 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2007.
NEW YORK, April 17, 2008 
Adjusting for the impact of merger and integration expenses ($126 million pre-tax), diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2008 were $0.72, which compares to $0.62 a year ago (an increase of 16%) and $0.67 sequentially (an unannualized increase of 7%).
Adjusting for the impact of merger and integration expenses ($126 million pre-tax) and intangible amortization ($122 million pre-tax), diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2008 were $0.78, which compares to $0.65 a year ago (an increase of 20%) and $0.74 sequentially (an unannualized increase of 5%). See the table on page 10 for a reconciliation of net income and earnings per share.
"Our businesses are performing well in a tough environment. We generated 14% revenue growth compared to the first quarter of 2007, significant positive operating leverage and 16% EPS growth. Market volumes and volatility, together with new business wins, continued to favor our asset servicing and clearing businesses, while lower market values impacted our asset management business. Our progress on the merger and integration continues to be excellent," said Robert P. Kelly, chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Mellon.
The results for first quarter of 2008 included net pre-tax costs associated with the write down of certain investments in the securities portfolio ($74 million), the write-down of seed capital investments related to a formerly affiliated hedge fund manager ($25 million), and an expense associated with capital support agreements ($12 million). The results for the first quarter also included the pre-tax benefit of $42 million associated with the initial public offering for VISA. The net impact of these items decreased earnings per share by approximately $0.04.
(Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the first quarter of 2008. This is followed by commentary that compares the current period to pro forma combined results of the first quarter of 2007 unless otherwise noted. The appendix to this release provides the pro forma combined results, without purchase accounting adjustments resulting from the merger of The Bank of New York and Mellon. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Summary for detailed business sector information.)
First Quarter Highlights of The Bank of New York Mellon
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Highlights of Continuing Operations - continued
 
 
 
 
Excluding merger and integration expense, intangible amortization expense, and non-operating items in the first quarter of 2007, detailed in the Quarterly Earnings Summary, noninterest expense on a pro forma combined basis increased 6% compared with the first quarter of 2007 and declined 5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. The results reflect $118 million of expense synergies in the first quarter of 2008 associated with the merger as detailed in the Quarterly Earnings Summary.
On a pro forma combined basis, excluding merger and integration expense, intangible amortization expense, and non-operating items in the first quarter of 2007, detailed in the Quarterly Earnings Summary, we generated approximately 750 bps of positive operating leverage compared to the first quarter of 2007 and approximately 350 bps compared to the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Highlights of Continuing Operations - continued
 
 
On April 8, 2008, The Bank of New York Mellon declared a quarterly common stock dividend of 24 cents per share. This cash dividend is payable on May 2, 2008 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 23, 2008.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has more than $23 trillion in assets under custody and administration, more than $1.1 trillion in assets under management and services $12 trillion in outstanding debt. Additional information is available at www.bnymellon.com.
Earnings Release Format
Throughout this earnings release, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis, before extraordinary (loss), unless otherwise noted. Quarterly returns are annualized. Certain amounts are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. Where financial measures are presented excluding certain specified amounts, we believe the presentation enhances investor understanding of period-to-period results.
Supplemental Financial Information
Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Summary for supplemental financial information of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, including 5-quarter trends of fee and other revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense as well as business segment trends. The Quarterly Earnings Summary is available at www.bnymellon.com (Investor Relations - financial reports).
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Bruce W. Van Saun, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from The Bank of New York Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8 a.m. EDT on Thursday, April 17, 2008. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (international) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to www.bnymellon.com. The earnings release together with the quarterly earnings summary will be available at www.bnymellon.com beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on April 17. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning April 17 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Thursday, May 1, 2008 by dialing (866) 356-4359 (U.S.) or (203) 369-0105 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at www.bnymellon.com for the same time period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment Portfolio
At March 31, 2008, investment securities totaled $45.5 billion, which consists of our core portfolio of $42.6 billion and Three Rivers Funding Corp.'s ("TRFC") portfolio of $2.9 billion. The unrealized net of tax loss on our total securities available for sale portfolio was $1.789 billion at March 31, 2008, which was comprised of $1.523 billion in our core portfolio and $266 million in our TRFC portfolio. The unrealized net of tax loss at Dec. 31, 2007 was $342 million and related entirely to our core portfolio. The increase in the unrealized loss in the first quarter of 2008 compared with the fourth quarter of 2007 was due to spread widening in the fixed income and asset-backed securities markets.
At March 31, 2008, the unrealized loss on our securities available for sale portfolio decreased our adjusted tangible common equity ratio by 90 basis points. Significant dislocation continued in the credit markets, particularly late in the first quarter of 2008. Spreads continued to widen appreciably as there were forced liquidations in the asset and mortgage-backed securities markets. That said, our core asset and mortgage-backed securities portfolio continued to remain highly rated, with 95% of our securities rated AAA, and few downgrades. We continue to have the ability and intent to hold these securities until any temporary impairment is recovered, or until maturity.
Below are the securities in our core portfolio, at fair value which incorporates our unrealized loss, by credit rating.
 
Below are the securities in TRFC's portfolio, at fair value which incorporates our unrealized loss, by credit rating.
 
We routinely test our investment portfolio securities for other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI"). In the first quarter of 2008, we recorded a $74 million pre-tax securities loss associated with OTTI comprised of the following
:
 
 
 
 
Capital Support Agreements
During the first quarter of 2008, we executed a capital support agreement for a commingled short-term NAV fund ("CNAV Fund"), which is managed by securities lending in the Asset Servicing segment, of $55.5 million covering securities related to Whistle Jacket Capital/White Pine Financial, LLC ("Whistle Jacket"). Subsequently, we executed another capital support agreement for the same CNAV Fund of $30 million covering securities related to Thornburg Mortgage Capital Resources ("Thornburg"). Under these agreements, we will provide capital in specified circumstances to the CNAV Fund until June 30, 2008 in support of Whistle Jacket securities and April 2009 in support of Thornburg securities. Included in other expense during the first quarter of 2008 was $12 million associated with the current estimated fair value of the support agreements. We continue to monitor exposure to SIV senior note investments in the CNAV Funds we manage. On a case-by-case basis, depending on future circumstances, we could enter into further capital support agreements with the funds.
Nonperforming Loans
 
 
Reserve for Credit Exposure, Provision and Net Charge-offs
 
 
The unallocated reserve was 23% at March 31, 2008 compared with 23% at Dec. 31, 2007 and 27% at March 31, 2007.
Consolidated Net Income Including Discontinued Operations
Net income, including discontinued operations, totaled $746 million, or $0.65 per share, in the first quarter of 2008, compared with $520 million, or $0.45 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2007 and $434 million, or $0.60 per share, in the first quarter of 2007.
 
Supplemental Information - Reconciliation of Earnings Per Share  GAAP to Non-GAAP
Reported amounts are presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that this supplemental non-GAAP information is useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of our business. We believe they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which our management internally monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items also are excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance because management does not consider them particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.
 
 
Supplemental Information  Trend of Earnings Per Share on a GAAP and Non-GAAP basis
In the merger transaction between The Bank of New York and Mellon, The Bank of New York shareholders received .9434 shares of BNY Mellon common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. Mellon shareholders received one share of BNY Mellon common stock for each share of Mellon common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. The table below converts earnings per share for The Bank of New York into post-merger share count terms for periods prior to July 1, 2007.
 
 
 
APPENDIX
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, statements with respect to future financial goals, the merger of The Bank of New York and Mellon, ability and intention to hold certain securities, and possible future activities relating to further capital support agreements. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon (the Company) which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company's control). Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors and other uncertainties set forth in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of April 17, 2008 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


