FILE:BK/BK-8K-20080718160722.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 17, 2008 the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for second quarter 2008 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. However, the references in the press release to the Registrant's website, /, shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K. The information included herein is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated by reference into all filings made by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which state that this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated therein by reference.
http://www.bnymellon.com
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE:BK) today reported income from continuing operations of $302 million, or $0.26 per share, in the second quarter of 2008. This compares to income from continuing operations of $448 million, or $0.62 per share, in the second quarter of 2007 and $749 million, or $0.65 per share, in the first quarter of 2008.
NEW YORK, July 17, 2008 
"In a very challenging environment for financial institutions, we were pleased to generate 12% revenue growth excluding a tax-related SILO charge and investment securities writedowns. During the second quarter we benefited from $13 billion of net flows in asset and wealth management and continued new business wins in securities servicing businesses. Our capital position remains strong and capital ratios strengthened materially versus the first quarter. Continuing EPS, excluding SILO and M&I expenses, increased modestly over the prior year. We continue to stay focused on executing on our growth strategies and integration activities," said Robert P. Kelly, chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Mellon.
 
In the second quarter of 2008 the Company recorded a $380 million after-tax charge related to sale-in, lease-out (SILO) transactions. The charge reduced net interest revenue by $377 million in the second quarter. For additional information, see page 9.
The results for the second quarter of 2008 also included net pre-tax costs associated with the writedown of certain investment securities ($152 million), and a pre-tax charge of $22 million for credit monitoring related to lost tapes in our Issuer and Treasury Services segments. The net impact of these items decreased earnings per share by approximately nine cents.
(Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the second quarter of 2008. This is followed by commentary that compares the current period to pro forma combined results of the second quarter of 2007 unless otherwise noted. The appendix to this release provides the pro forma combined results, without purchase accounting adjustments, resulting from the merger of The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Summary for detailed business segment information.)
Second Quarter Highlights of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights of Continuing Operations  continued
 
 
 
 
 
Excluding merger and integration expenses and intangible amortization expense, noninterest expense on a pro forma combined basis increased 2% compared with the second quarter of 2007 and 5% (unannualized) compared with the first quarter of 2008. The increases from both periods reflect business growth, the impact of the merit increase ($25 million) in the second quarter of 2008, and the $22 million expense for credit monitoring related to lost tapes. The sequential increase was also impacted by higher incentives, benefits and professional, legal and other purchased services.
On a pro forma combined basis, excluding the SILO charge, merger and integration expenses and intangible amortization expense, we generated more than 500 basis points of positive operating leverage compared to the second quarter of 2007.
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights of Continuing Operations  continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 8, 2008, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of 24 cents per share. This cash dividend is payable on Aug. 1, 2008 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on July 23, 2008.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $23 trillion in assets under custody and administration, more than $1.1 trillion in assets under management and services more than $11 trillion in outstanding debt. Additional information is available at www.bnymellon.com.
Earnings Release Format
Throughout this earnings release, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted. Quarterly returns are annualized. Certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. Where financial measures are presented excluding certain specified amounts, we believe the presentation enhances investor understanding of period-to-period results.
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Summary and supplemental financial trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through June 30, 2008 and are available at (Investor Relationsfinancial reports).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 9 a.m. EDT on Thursday, July 17, 2008. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (International) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The earnings release, together with the quarterly earnings summary, will be available at beginning at approximately 7 a.m. EDT on July 17, 2008. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning July 17, 2008 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Thursday, July 31, 2008 by dialing (866) 356-4359 (U.S.) or (203) 369-0105 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment Portfolio
At June 30, 2008, investment securities totaled $44.3 billion, which consists of our core portfolio of $41.5 billion and Three Rivers Funding Corp.'s ("TRFC") portfolio of $2.8 billion. TRFC was consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2007. The unrealized net of tax loss on our total securities available for sale portfolio was $1.818 billion at June 30, 2008, which was comprised of $1.480 billion in our core portfolio and $338 million in our TRFC portfolio. The unrealized net of tax loss at March 31, 2008 was $1.789 billion, which was comprised of $1.523 billion in our core portfolio and $266 million in our TRFC portfolio. The increase in the unrealized net of tax loss in the second quarter of 2008 compared with the first quarter of 2008 resulted from higher interest rates partially offset by narrower credit spreads.
At June 30, 2008, the unrealized net of tax loss on our securities available for sale portfolio decreased our adjusted tangible common equity to assets ratio by 93 basis points. We continue to have the ability and intent to hold our investment securities until any temporary impairment is recovered, or until maturity. The securities in our core asset and mortgage-backed securities portfolio continued to remain highly rated, with 93% rated AAA.
Below are the securities in our core portfolio, at fair value which incorporates our unrealized loss, by credit rating.
 
Below are the securities in the TRFC portfolio, at fair value which incorporates our unrealized loss, by credit rating.
 
We routinely test our investment securities for other than temporary impairment ("OTTI"). In the second quarter of 2008, we assumed an additional 17% decline in national home prices over the next two years and estimated the impact it would have on the cash flows underlying individual securities. As a result, we impaired certain securities and wrote them down to current market value and recorded a $152 million pre-tax securities loss associated with OTTI comprising the following:
 
 
 
 
Our Alt-A portfolio is 99% AAA-rated and 1% AA-rated. At origination, the portfolio's weighted-average FICO score was 716 and its weighted-average LTV was 74%. Approximately 50% of the total portfolio is supported by better performing fixed-rate collateral. Finally, the portfolio's weighted-average current credit enhancement is 13%.
The HELOC securities in the TRFC portfolio are tested for impairment based on the quality of the underlying security and the condition of the monoline insurer providing credit support. Securities were deemed impaired if we expected they would not be repaid in full without the support of the insurer and the insurer was rated below investment grade.
At June 30, 2008, the combined fair value of the core and TRFC subprime mortgage securities portfolios was $1.3 billion with 85% of the portfolios rated AA or higher. The core portfolio is primarily comprised of vintages from 2005 or earlier. The TRFC portfolio is primarily comprised of vintages originated in 2006 and 2007. The weighted-average current credit enhancement on these portfolios was 35% at June 30, 2008.
SILO Transactions
In the second quarter of 2008 we recorded a $380 million charge related to sale-in, lease-out (SILO) transactions. This charge includes $237 million, in accordance with FAS 13-2, related to revising the cash flows associated with the Company's SILO transactions, as well as $143 million for establishing interest reserves on associated tax benefits. The charge was prompted by recent federal court decisions in and , where the tax benefits from certain SILO and lease-in, lease-out (LILO) transactions were denied. In the third quarter of 2008, we expect to deposit funds with the IRS to offset the accrual of interest on the disputed SILO transactions. The cost of the deposit, as well as the recalculation of the cash flows associated with the SILO transactions will result in a decrease in earnings per share of approximately $0.02 per share in both the second half of 2008 and full year 2009. We continue to believe our tax treatment of the SILO transactions was proper under the tax law as it existed at the time the tax benefits were reported. We are currently in discussions with the IRS.
BB&T Corp. v. United States
AWG Leasing Trust v. United States
Capital Support Agreements
During the second quarter of 2008, we executed the following capital support agreements: $28.6 million and $18 million covering securities in two short-term short-term net asset value ("NAV") funds, both in the Asset Management segment. These agreements are in addition to the capital support agreement for the commingled short-term NAV fund ("CNAV fund") of $55.5 million covering securities related to Whistle Jacket Capital/White Pine Financial, LLC, in the Asset Servicing segment. Under these agreements, we could provide capital in specified circumstances in varying maturities through June 2009. A previously disclosed capital support agreement for the CNAV Fund covering securities related to Thornburg Mortgage Capital Resources was canceled during the second quarter of 2008 resulting in a $12 million credit recorded in Other expense, which was partially offset by $8 million of expense related to the current estimated fair value of the remaining capital support agreements. We continue to monitor exposure to NAV and money market funds that we manage. On a case-by-case basis, depending on future circumstances, we could enter into further capital support agreements with the funds.
 
Capital Ratios
 
 
Nonperforming Assets
 
Allowance for Credit Loss, Provision and Net Charge-offs
 
 
The unallocated allowance was 22% at June 30, 2008 compared with 23% at March 31, 2008 and 28% at June 30, 2007.
Consolidated Net Income Including Discontinued Operations
Net income, including discontinued operations, totaled $309 million, or $0.27 per share, in the second quarter of 2008, compared with $746 million, or $0.65 per share, in the first quarter of 2008 and $445 million, or $0.62 per share, in the second quarter of 2007.
 
Supplemental Information  GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations
Reported amounts are presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that this supplemental non-GAAP information is useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of our business. We believe this information facilitates comparisons with prior periods and reflects the principal basis on which our management internally monitors financial performance. These items also are excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance because management does not consider them to be particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.
 
 
 
Supplemental Information  Converted Earnings Per Share
In the merger transaction between The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial, The Bank of New York shareholders received 0.9434 shares of the Company's common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. Mellon Financial shareholders received one share of the Company's common stock for each share of Mellon Financial common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger.
Converting The Bank of New York Company's common stock into post-merger share count terms for the second quarter of 2007 increased diluted earnings per share and diluted earnings per share excluding merger and integration expense by $0.03 and increased diluted earnings per share excluding merger and integration expense and intangible amortization by $0.04.
 
APPENDIX
 
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, statements with respect to future financial goals, growth in asset management and securities servicing businesses, ability to achieve plans for revenue and expense synergies and the merger of The Bank of New York and Mellon Financial, ability and intention to hold certain securities, expectations and other matters relating to SILO transactions, and possible future activities relating to further capital support agreements. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the Company) which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company's control). Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors and other uncertainties set forth in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of July 17, 2008 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


