FILE:BK/BK-8K-20081014161831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 14, 2008, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation issued a press release announcing that it will be part of the initial group of nine financial institutions to participate in the U.S. government program designed to restore confidence and stability in the world's financial markets. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
 
NEW YORK, October 14, 2008  The U.S. government announced that it is investing $250 billion in a broad range of financial institutions in an effort designed to restore confidence and stability in the world's financial markets. As the world's leading securities servicing and asset management firm, The Bank of New York Mellon will be part of the initial group of nine institutions in which the U.S. government is purchasing an equity stake.
The Treasury will invest $3 billion in preferred stock and warrants in The Bank of New York Mellon as part of its broader actions to infuse equity in healthy firms that form the backbone of the U.S. financial system. It is likely that additional announcements over the coming days will highlight further investments in smaller banks and financial institutions by the U.S. government.
"These investments are a sign of the U.S. government's determination to work in partnership with other governments to create an environment of confidence," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Mellon. "Our company continues to be a leader in tumultuous times. We are supportive of the Treasury's efforts. It is time to get the markets working again for borrowers and investors."
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is the seventh largest U.S. financial institution based on market capitalization, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has more than $23 trillion in assets under custody and administration, more than $1.1 trillion in assets under management and services $12 trillion in outstanding debt. Additional information is available at bnymellon.com.


