FILE:BK/BK-8K-20090417170258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 14, 2009, the Board of Directors of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Corporation") amended and restated the By-Laws of the Corporation to reflect certain changes: (1) Section 9 of Article Two was amended to reflect that at least 25% of regular meetings of the Board of Directors are no longer required to be held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; (2) Section 1 of Article Three was amended to reflect that in the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee of the Board of Directors, specific direction for replacing "Continuing BNY Directors" and "Continuing Mellon Directors", as such terms are defined in Article Five of the By-Laws, are no longer required, (3) Section 5 of Article Five was amended to reflect that each of the Board of Directors' Human Resources and Compensation Committee, Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Risk Committee are no longer required to be composed of certain numbers of "Continuing BNY Directors" and "Continuing Mellon Directors", as such terms are defined in Article Five of the By-Laws, and chaired by such directors, (4) Section 3 of Article Three and Section 7 of Article Four were amended to reflect the change of the name of the committee of the Board of Directors formerly called the "Audit and Examining Committee" to the "Audit Committee" and (5) Section 9 of Article Two and Section 4 of Article Five reference the Board of Directors' constating document as the "Corporate Governance Guidelines" rather than "Board Policies".
Item 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
Section 9. REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as the Board of Directors shall determine in or which are otherwise furnished to the Directors at Organization Meeting, and if so determined or furnished, notice of such meetings need not be given.
its Board Policies adopted at
its
Organization Meeting
each
year
accordance
with the Corporate Governance Guidelines
such
its
each year
, provided that at least 25 percent of such regular meetings (but if the number of such meetings is less than eight, no more than two per year) shall be held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Section 1. APPOINTMENT; POWERS. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more standing or temporary committees consisting of two or more Directors. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. The Board of Directors may invest such committees with such powers and authority, subject to such conditions, as it may see fit, but no such committee shall have the power or authority with respect to the following matters: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing these By-Laws.
; provided, that during the Specified Period (as defined in Article Five), a Continuing BNY Director (as defined in Article Five) shall be appointed as an alternate for a member of the committee who is a Continuing BNY Director and a Continuing Mellon Director (as defined in Article Five) shall be appointed as an alternate for a member of the committee who is a Continuing Mellon Director
Section 3. AUDIT COMMITTEE. Subject to the provisions of Article Five, the Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, none of whom shall be an officer of the Corporation, an Audit Committee, which,
AND
EXAMINING
and Examining
so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Audit Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Audit Committee.
and Examining
and Examining
Section 7. CHIEF AUDITOR. Subject to any requirement of law or the rules of any exchange on which shares of Common Stock of the Corporation are listed, the Board of Directors shall appoint a Chief Auditor who shall be the chief auditing officer of the Corporation. He or she shall report to the Audit Committee and shall continuously examine the affairs of the Corporation under the general supervision and direction of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Committee or the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may also appoint other officers who shall perform such auditing duties as may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors or the Chief Auditor of the Corporation.
and Examining
Auditing and
Examining
Audit
Section 4. LEAD DIRECTOR. During the period beginning at the Effective Time and ending on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Effective Time, the lead Director of the Corporation shall be a Continuing BNY Director selected by the Continuing BNY Directors Committee. During the period beginning on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Effective Time and ending on the thirty-six month anniversary of the Effective Time, the lead Director of the Corporation shall be a Continuing Mellon Director selected by the Continuing Mellon Directors Committee. Thereafter, the lead Director shall be a Director selected by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The Lead Director shall have such duties and responsibilities as may be set forth in the Corporation's from time to time.
Board
policies
Corporate
Governance Guidelines
Section 5.
COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES.
During the Specified Period, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee shall be comprised of at least five members with a number of Continuing Mellon Directors that is greater by one than the number of Continuing BNY Directors on the Committee, and a Continuing Mellon Director shall be the chair of each such Committee. During the Specified Period, each of the Executive Committee, Audit and Examining Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Risk Committee shall be comprised of at least five members with a number of Continuing BNY Directors that is greater by one than the number of Continuing Mellon Directors on the Committee and a Continuing BNY Director shall be
. Until the end of the Specified Period or the date on which the Board of Directors determines to terminate the Integration Committee (which shall not be earlier than the Succession Date) (such termination date, the "Integration Date"), the Integration Committee shall be comprised of two Continuing Mellon Directors and two Continuing BNY Directors and a Continuing Mellon Director shall be the chair of such Committee. At the end of such period, the Integration Committee shall be disbanded.
the
chair of each such Committee. During the Specified Period, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee shall be comprised of at least four members, of whom two shall be Continuing BNY Directors and two shall be Continuing Mellon
Directors
INTEGRATION
COMMITTEE


