FILE:BK/BK-8K-20090223164248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefits Plans
On February 17, 2009, the Plan Administrator for the Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan and The Employee Savings & Investment Plan of the Bank of New York Company Inc. (collectively, the "Plans") notified The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") of a blackout period impacting the Plans, in accordance with the requirements of Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). The blackout period is expected to begin on Wednesday, March 25, 2009 at 4:00 pm Eastern Time and is expected to end during the week of April 6, 2009 (the "Blackout Period"). The purpose of the Blackout Period is (i) to implement the merger of the Plans to form The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan (the "BNY Mellon 401(k) Plan"); (ii) to adopt new investment options for the BNY Mellon 401(k) Plan; and (iii) to effect a transition of the Plans' administration to a new recordkeeper.
During the Blackout Period, participants in the Plans will be temporarily unable to access their Plan accounts, including being unable to direct or diversify investments, change contribution rates, or obtain loans or distributions. Notice of the Blackout Period was sent to all participants and beneficiaries under the Plans on February 17, 2009.
Since the Plans include BNY Mellon common stock as an investment option, on February 23, 2009, BNY Mellon sent a separate notice to its directors and executive officers informing them of the Blackout Period and the prohibitions on their directly or indirectly purchasing, exercising, selling, or otherwise transferring equity securities of BNY Mellon in any non-exempt transactions during the Blackout Period (the "Insider Notice"). The Insider Notice was provided to BNY Mellon's directors and executive officers pursuant to the requirements of Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation BTR.
A copy of the Insider Notice is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein it its entirety.
During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years after the end date thereof, a security holder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the Blackout Period, including the actual end date of the Blackout Period. This information is available by contacting Richard Pearlman at The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 or via telephone at (412) 234-1029.
Item 9.01  Financial Statement and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Act"), The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") is required to notify you of upcoming temporary restrictions that will be placed on your ability to engage in certain activities regarding BNY Mellon securities. These temporary restrictions are mandated by the Act due to the blackout period impacting the Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan and The Employee Savings & Investment Plan of the Bank of New York Company Inc. (collectively, the "Plans").
The blackout period for the Plans is expected to begin on Wednesday, March 25, 2009 at 4:00 pm Eastern Time and is expected to end during the week of April 6, 2009 (the "Blackout Period"). The purpose of the Blackout Period is (i) to implement the merger of the Plans to form The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan (the "BNY Mellon 401(k) Plan"); (ii) to adopt new investment options for the BNY Mellon 401(k) Plan; and (iii) to effect a transition of the Plans' administration to a new recordkeeper.
During the Blackout Period, participants in the Plans will be temporarily unable to access their Plan accounts, including being unable to direct or diversify investments, change contribution rates, or obtain loans or distributions. These restrictions were described in a Blackout Period notice that was distributed to each participant and beneficiary under the Plans on February 17, 2009. The form of notice applicable to participants and beneficiaries in each Plan is attached.
Since the Plans include BNY Mellon common stock as an investment option, the Act requires that you be prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, exercising, selling, or otherwise transferring equity securities of BNY Mellon during the Blackout Period other than in an exempt transaction if those securities were acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of BNY Mellon. These prohibitions are in addition to any other restrictions to which you may be subject under the BNY Mellon Personal Securities Trading Policy.
For more information about the Blackout Period, or to obtain the actual end date of the Blackout Period, please contact Richard Pearlman at The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, One Mellon Center, 500 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219 or via telephone at (412) 234-1029.
concerning your rights
Important Notice
under The Bank of New York Employee Savings and Investment Plan
February 16, 2009
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation has selected ING as the new recordkeeper for The Bank of New York Employee Savings and Investment Plan. The move to ING will take place during the late March and early April 2009 timeframe. This notice provides you with important information about your account and how it will transition to ING.
 
 
This period, during which you will be unable to exercise these rights otherwise available under The Bank of New York Employee Savings and Investment Plan, is commonly referred to as the "transition period" in other communication materials and includes a "blackout period" when you will not have access to your account. Whether or not you are planning retirement in the near future, we encourage you to carefully consider how this transition and blackout period may affect your retirement planning, as well as your overall financial plan.
 
 
For your long-term retirement security, you should give careful consideration to the importance of a well-balanced and diversified investment portfolio, taking into account all your assets, income and investments. You should be aware that there is a risk to holding substantial portions of your assets in the securities of any one company, as individual securities tend to have wider price swings, up and down, in short periods of time, than investments in diversified funds. Stocks that have wide price swings might have a large loss during the blackout period, and you would not be able to direct the sale of such stocks from your account during the blackout period.
 
 
 
BNYSO021609
concerning your rights
Important Notice
under the Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan
February 16, 2009
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation has selected ING as the new recordkeeper for the Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan. The move to ING will take place during the late March and early April, 2009 timeframe. This notice provides you with important information about your account and how it will transition to ING.
 
 
This period, during which you will be unable to exercise these rights otherwise available under the Mellon 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan, is commonly referred to as the "transition period" in other communication materials and includes a "blackout period" when you will not have access to your account. Whether or not you are planning retirement in the near future, we encourage you to carefully consider how this transition and blackout period may affect your retirement planning, as well as your overall financial plan.
 
 
For your long-term retirement security, you should give careful consideration to the importance of a well-balanced and diversified investment portfolio, taking into account all your assets, income and investments. You should be aware that there is a risk to holding substantial portions of your assets in the securities of any one company, as individual securities tend to have wider price swings, up and down, in short periods of time, than investments in diversified funds. Stocks that have wide price swings might have a large loss during the blackout period, and you would not be able to direct the sale of such stocks from your account during the blackout period.
 
 
 
MELSO021609


