FILE:BK/BK-8K-20090817160407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) On August 11, 2009, the Board of Directors of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Corporation") amended the Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Corporation to reflect certain changes, as follows: (1) Sections 4 and 8 of Article Four were amended to revise the levels of officer appointments that require Board approval or confirmation by the Board; (2) Section 1(g) of Article Five was amended to revise the definition of "entire Board of Directors", and (3) Section 6 of Article Five was amended to delete the provisions requiring the Corporation's product lines to use certain brand names for the five year period commencing after the merger.
Item 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 4. SENIOR OFFICERS. The Board of Directors may appoint, or the Chief Executive Officer may appoint, subject to confirmation by the Board of Directors, one or more senior officers of the Corporation, any of whom may be designated as Vice Chairmen or as executive vice presidents or given any other descriptive titles, as the Board of Directors or the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall specify from time to time. Each senior officer shall have and exercise such powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
senior
, senior, group or administrative
Section 8. OTHER OFFICERS. The Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the delegate of either of them may appoint or hire such additional officers of the Corporation, who may be designated as vice presidents, , or given any other descriptive titles, and may hire such additional employees, as it or he or she may deem necessary or desirable to transact the business of the Corporation, and may establish the conditions of employment of any of the persons mentioned above and may fix their compensation and dismiss them. Such persons may have such descriptive titles as may be appropriate, and they shall, respectively, have and exercise such powers and duties as pertain to their several offices or as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, them by the appropriate appointing authority and as are not inconsistent with any provisions of these By-Laws.
executive
assistant vice presidents, officers, assistant
officers
managing
directors, senior vice presidents, first vice presidents, vice presidents, assistant vice presidents, officers, assistant officers, senior associates, associates
Section 1. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply to this Article Five and otherwise as applicable in these By-Laws:
 (g) "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of Directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies. 
; provided, that with respect to any provisions of these By-Laws requiring the unanimous affirmative vote of the entire Board of Directors, "entire Board of Directors" shall mean all the Directors of the Corporation then in office
Section 6. CORPORATE NAME During the period beginning at the Effective Time and ending on the fifth anniversary of the Effective Time, the Board of Directors shall not recommend for adoption by the stockholders of the Corporation, or otherwise approve or effect, any change to the name of the Corporation
; BRAND NAMES.
:
(a) 
without the unanimous affirmative vote of the entire Board of Directors
or
any of the brand names specified in paragraph (b) of this Section 6
.
(b) BRAND NAMES. The Corporation's product lines shall use the following brand names:
(
i
)
the
Asset Management product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Asset Management";
(ii)
the
Private Wealth Management product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Wealth Management";
(iii)
the
Custody product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Asset Servicing";
(iv)
the
Stock Transfer product line shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon Stock Transfer";
(v)
the
Payments and Cash Management product lines shall use the brand name "BNY Mellon" within the
United States
and the brand name "Bank of New York Mellon" outside of the
United States
;
.
(vi) the Client Management product line shall use both the brand names "BNY Mellon" and "Bank of New York Mellon"; and
(vii) all other lines of business of the Corporation shall use the brand name "Bank of New York Mellon" under Bank of New York Mellon Securities Services


