FILE:BK/BK-8K-20090723161121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On July 22, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for second quarter 2009 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. However, the references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K. The information included herein is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated by reference into all filings made by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which state that this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated therein by reference.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE:BK) today reported second quarter income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $267 million, or $0.23 per common share, compared with $303 million, or $0.26 per common share, in the second quarter of 2008 and $363 million, or $0.31 per common share, in the first quarter of 2009.
NEW YORK, July 22, 2009 
"Overall, revenue has stabilized, we continue to gain market share, remain profitable, and have among the best capital levels in our industry. However, investment losses remain stubbornly high primarily due to continued deterioration in the residential housing market. We will continue to focus on maintaining exceptional client service levels and reducing risk and expenses," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.
On June 30, 2009, we adopted discontinued operations accounting for Mellon United National Bank located in Florida. Accordingly, all income statements in this release have been restated.
Net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, totaled $176 million, or $0.15 per common share, in the second quarter of 2009, compared with $309 million, or $0.27 per common share in the second quarter of 2008 and $322 million, or $0.28 per common share in the first quarter of 2009.
 
1
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the second quarter of 2009 and are compared to the second quarter of 2008. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for detailed business segment information.
Second Quarter Highlights
was $2.957 billion, comprised of $2.257 billion of fee and other revenue and $700 million of net interest revenue. Total revenue included a pre-tax charge for the write-down of investment securities ($256 million) in fee and other revenue.
Total revenue
 
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
lower level of average interest-earning assets as the balance sheet returned to expected levels, as well as a lower value and level of interest-free funds.
 
The was $61 million in the second quarter of 2009 compared with $13 million in the second quarter of 2008 and $59 million in the first quarter of 2009. During the second quarter of 2009, the total decreased $33 million as net charge-offs totaled $54 million and $40 million of the allowance for credit losses was transferred to discontinued operations.
provision for credit losses
allowance for credit losses
was $2.383 billion. This compares with total noninterest expense of $2.743 billion in the second quarter of 2008 and $2.280 billion in the first quarter of 2009.
Total noninterest expense
 
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
 
The on a continuing operations basis, was 2.2% in the second quarter of 2009. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company recognized $134 million of tax benefits primarily attributable to the final LILO/SILO tax settlement agreement at an amount less than originally recorded. Excluding the impact of the FDIC special assessment, M&I expenses, investment write-downs and the benefit of tax settlements recorded in the second quarter of 2009, the effective tax rate was 32.4% (Non-GAAP) in the second quarter of 2009.
effective tax rate,
Results in the second quarter of 2009 included an of $196.5 million related to the repurchase of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the TARP Capital Purchase Program and $39.8 million for the final dividend on the Series B preferred stock. The redemption premium/dividends and the FDIC special assessment decreased EPS by $0.23 per share in the second quarter of 2009.
after-tax redemption charge
The was $4.4 billion at June 30, 2009 compared with a net of tax loss of $4.5 billion at March 31, 2009. Further information on the investment portfolio is detailed in the Quarterly Earnings Review on page 9.
unrealized net of tax loss on our securities portfolio
On June 30, 2009, the Company submitted to the U.S. Treasury notice of our intention to repurchase the warrant which we issued to the Treasury in connection with the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The Company and the Treasury are currently discussing the terms of the proposed repurchase of the warrant.
 
3
 
On June 30, 2009, we adopted discontinued operations accounting for Mellon United National Bank located in Florida. Accordingly, the income statements for all periods in this release have been restated. The restatement resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels of net interest revenue and the net interest margin; a slight reduction in both treasury services and other fee revenue; a reduction in the provision for credit losses; a reduction in noninterest expense and a change in continuing earnings per share.
Also on July 22, 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of 9 cents per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Aug. 11, 2009 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Aug. 3, 2009.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $20.7 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $926 billion in assets under management, services $11.8 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.8 trillion per day. Additional information is available at www.bnymellon.com.
Earnings Release Format
Throughout this Earnings Release, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted. Quarterly returns are annualized.
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through June 30, 2009 and are available at (Investor Relationsfinancial reports). The Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends have been restated for discontinued operations.
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on July 22, 2009. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (International) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on July 22, 2009. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning July 22, 2009 at approximately 2:00 p.m. EDT through Aug. 5, 2009 by dialing (866) 442-1776 (U.S.) or (203) 369-1076 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
Discontinued operations
On June 30, 2009, we adopted discontinued operations accounting for Mellon United National Bank located in Florida. It was determined that this business no longer fits our strategic focus on our asset management and securities servicing businesses. The business was formerly included in the Other segment. In the second quarter of 2009, we recorded an after-tax loss on discontinued operation of $91 million primarily related to the write-down of goodwill and an increase in the provision for credit losses. The after-tax loss of $41 million in the first quarter of 2009 primarily resulted from a goodwill impairment charge.
The income statements for all periods in this Earnings Release have been restated. The restatement resulted in a reduction to previously reported levels of net interest revenue and the net interest margin; a slight reduction in both treasury services and other fee revenue; a reduction in the provision for credit losses; a reduction in noninterest expense; and a change in continuing earnings per share.
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
The Company has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. The Company believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets is a measure of capital strength that adds additional useful information to investors supplementing the Tier 1 capital ratio which is utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 ratio, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in securities valuations which are reflected in shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although the Company in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in the Company's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued by the Company. Further, the Company believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liability, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of the Company's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.
The Company has also provided a measure of tangible book value per share which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. The Company has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of investment write-downs and a SILO charge; expense measures which exclude an FDIC special assessment, M&I expenses and intangible amortization expenses; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as the benefit of tax settlements. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude some or all of these items are also presented. The Company believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of the Company to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within the Company's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where valuation or other accounting/regulatory requirements require charges unrelated to operational initiatives. The SILO charge relates to a one-time settlement with the IRS of tax structured lease transactions in 2008. We also present earnings information excluding the TARP dividend and redemption premium, so as to provide investors with a better understanding of operational results. In this earnings release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a Company-wide and on a business segment basis.
 
9
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
 
12
 
 
13
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, and relate to, among other things, the Company's proposed repurchase of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury, the state of the economy, including the residential housing market, our strategic focus with regard to Mellon United National Bank and the Company's ability to manage its business through the global recession. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Company") which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this earnings release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company's control). Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008 and the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this earnings release speak only as of July 22, 2009 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
14


