FILE:BK/BK-8K-20090422160836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for first quarter 2009 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. However, the references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K. The information included herein is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated by reference into all filings made by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which state that this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated therein by reference.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
(d)    EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE:BK) today reported first quarter income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $322 million, or $0.28 per common share. This compares to income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $749 million, or $0.65 per common share, in the first quarter of 2008 and income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders, before an extraordinary item, of $53 million, or $0.05 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2008.
NEW YORK, April 21, 2009 
"In a difficult market environment, we continued to focus on winning new business, managing expenses and building the capital base. Our efforts resulted in market share gains in most of our businesses, a 10% decline in operating expenses and stronger capital ratios. The decision to reduce the dividend was not made lightly, and reflects our commitment to build capital further, pursue growth opportunities and, with the permission of our regulators, repay the government's investment in BNY Mellon. We anticipate returning to our historic payout ratio as soon as practical.
"Given our global leadership position in asset management and securities servicing and the strength of our balance sheet, we remain confident in our ability to manage successfully through this global recession," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.
 
1
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the first quarter of 2009 and are compared to the first quarter of 2008. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for detailed business segment information.
First Quarter Highlights
was $2.930 billion, comprised of $2.138 billion of fee and other revenue and $792 million of net interest revenue, and included a pre-tax charge for the write-down of certain investments ($347 million) in fee and other revenue.
Total revenue
 
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
The was $80 million in the first quarter of 2009 compared with $16 million in the first quarter of 2008 and $60 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. During the first quarter of 2009, the total allowance for credit losses increased by $30 million and net charge-offs totaled $50 million.
provision for credit losses
was $2.342 billion. This compares to noninterest expense of $2.612 billion in the first quarter of 2008 and $2.870 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Total noninterest expense
 
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
The was 27.2% in the first quarter of 2009. Excluding the impact of investment write-downs, restructuring charges, support agreement charges, goodwill impairment and M&I expenses, the effective tax rate was 32.6% in the first quarter of 2009.
effective tax rate
 
 
 
 
3
Also, on April 21, 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of 9 cents per common share. This cash dividend is payable on May 11, 2009 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 1, 2009. The decision to reduce the quarterly dividend from 24 cents reflects our commitment to build capital, pursue growth opportunities and, with the permission of our regulators, repay the government's investment in the Company.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $19.5 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $881 billion in assets under management, services more than $11 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.8 trillion per day. Additional information is available at www.bnymellon.com.
Earnings Release Format
Throughout this earnings release, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted. Quarterly returns are annualized. Certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. Where financial measures are presented excluding certain specified amounts, we believe the presentation enhances investor understanding of period-to-period results.
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through March 31, 2009 and are available at (Investor Relations  financial reports).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on April 21, 2009. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (International) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and supplement financial trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on April 21, 2009. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning April 21, 2009 at approximately 2:00 p.m. EDT through May 5, 2009 by dialing (866) 442-1776 (U.S.) or (203) 369-1076 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
Consolidated net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation including discontinued operations
Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, including discontinued operations, totaled $322 million, or $0.28 per common share, in the first quarter of 2009, compared with $28 million, or $0.02 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2008 and $746 million, or $0.65 per common share, in the first quarter of 2008.
Supplemental information  Explanation of non-GAAP financial measures
Reported amounts are presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the supplemental non-GAAP information is useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of our business. We believe they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which our management internally monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items are also excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance because management does not consider them to be particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.
 
 
9
 
 
10
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, the Company's ability to manage its business through the global recession; expectations with respect to the timing and amount of future dividends; building capital, pursuing growth opportunities and repayment of the TARP investment. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Company") which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this earnings release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company's control). Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008 and the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this earnings release speak only as of April 21, 2009 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
11


