FILE:BK/BK-8K-20090623165357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 17, 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Company") repurchased all 3,000,000 shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, $0.01 par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the "Series B Preferred Shares"), that it issued and sold to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "U. S. Treasury") on October 28, 2008, as part of the U.S. Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program. The Company paid the U.S. Treasury a repurchase price of $3,036,250,000 which equals the full $3,000,000,000 liquidation amount of the Series B Preferred Shares plus $36,250,000 with respect to accrued but unpaid dividends through the date of repurchase (the "Repurchase"). On June 18, 2009, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware which, effective upon filing, eliminated all references in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the Series B Preferred Shares. A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
 
On June 17, 2009, the Company issued a press release in connection with the Repurchase. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
Including $36,250,000 paid with respect to dividends in connection with the Repurchase, the Company has paid the U.S. Treasury an aggregate of $95,416,666.67 in dividends on the Series B Preferred Shares since October 28, 2008. The Company also intends to notify the U.S. Treasury of its intent to repurchase, at fair market value, the ten-year warrant to purchase approximately 14.5 million shares of the Company's common stock issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the Series B Preferred Shares.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware that the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board"):
RESOLVED, that pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Restated Certificate of Incorporation"), a special committee, which was established by resolutions duly adopted by the Board, authorized the issuance of a series of 3,000,000 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B par value $0.01 per share (the "Series B Preferred Stock"), of the Corporation, and established the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, by resolutions duly adopted by such special committee and, on October 27, 2008, filed a Certificate of Designations with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock (the "Series B Certificate of Designations") in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware; and
FURTHER RESOLVED, as of the date hereof, no shares of the Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares of the Series B Preferred Stock will be issued subject to the Series B Certificate of Designations; and
FURTHER RESOLVED, that when a certificate setting forth this resolution becomes effective, it shall have the effect of eliminating from the Restated Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth in the Series B Certificate of Designations with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be signed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer this 18th day of June, 2009.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEW YORK, June 17, 2009 - The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, the global leader in asset management and securities servicing, today repurchased the 3 million shares of its preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury last October as part of the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The company has paid the Treasury $3,036,250,000, which reflects the liquidation value of the preferred stock and $36.25 million of accrued but unpaid dividends.
Related to this repurchase, the company will record an after-tax charge of approximately $197 million in the second quarter of 2009, representing the difference between the amortized cost of the preferred stock and the repurchase price.
Additionally, the company intends to notify the Treasury that it intends to repurchase, at fair market value, the warrant that the Treasury holds to purchase approximately 14.5 million shares of the company's common stock.
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $19.5 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $881 billion in assets under management, services more than $11 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.8 trillion per day. Additional information is available at www.bnymellon.com.
The information presented in this press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, the Company's expectations with respect to the after-tax charge and the repurchase of the TARP warrant. These statements are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company's control). Factors that could cause the Company's results to differ materially can be found in the risk factors set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


