FILE:BK/BK-8K-20091021161641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On October 20, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for third quarter 2009 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
(d) EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS THIRD QUARTER CONTINUING EPS LOSS OF $2.04. IMPACTED BY:
CONTINUING EPS OF $0.54 (excluding investment securities portfolio restructuring and M&I expenses)
BALANCE SHEET RISK SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED
CAPITAL REMAINS STRONG; 90% OF RESTRUCTURING CHARGE PREVIOUSLY REFLECTED IN TANGIBLE CAPITAL
REVENUE INCREASE AND EXPENSE DISCIPLINE RESULTED IN POSITIVE OPERATING LEVERAGE (excluding investment securities portfolio restructuring)
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE:BK) today reported a third quarter loss from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $2.439 billion, or $2.04 per common share, compared with income of $303 million, or $0.26 per common share, in the third quarter of 2008 and $267 million, or $0.23 per common share, in the second quarter of 2009.
NEW YORK, Oct. 20, 2009 
"Consistent with our ongoing strategy to reduce balance sheet risk, we took advantage of the recent strength in the fixed income markets by selling or recognizing losses on a significant portion of our investment securities portfolio. This restructuring does not materially impact capital, is expected to benefit net interest revenue by $125-$175 million in 2010, and significantly reduces the risk of future securities losses," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"During the quarter, we remained focused on organic growth, continuing to provide exceptional client service and reducing expenses which resulted in positive operating leverage," added Kelly.
Net loss applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, totaled $2.458 billion, or $2.05 per common share, in the third quarter of 2009, compared with net income of $303 million, or $0.26 per common share, in the third quarter of 2008 and $176 million, or $0.15 per common share, in the second quarter of 2009.
 
1
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the third quarter of 2009 and are compared to the third quarter of 2008, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized (unless otherwise stated). Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for detailed business segment information.
Third Quarter Results
Total revenue
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
The was $147 million in the third quarter of 2009 compared with $61 million in the second quarter of 2009. The increase primarily relates to downgrades in the insurance and media portfolios. The provision is expected to decline in the fourth quarter of 2009. During the third quarter of 2009, the total allowance for credit losses increased $70 million and net charge-offs totaled $77 million.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
Results for the third quarter of 2009 include an of $1.527 billion. Excluding the impact of the investment securities losses and M&I expenses, the effective tax rate was 31.8% (Non-GAAP) in the third quarter of 2009.
income tax benefit
The was $1.0 billion at Sept. 30, 2009 compared with a net of tax unrealized loss of $4.8 billion at June 30, 2009. The improvement reflects $3.0 billion related to the restructuring of the securities portfolio and $0.8 billion resulting from the improvement in the fixed income markets. Subsequent to Sept. 30, 2009, approximately $2.1 billion (pre-restructuring amortized cost of $3.6 billion) of the lowest quality securities were sold at fair value. See page 9 for further information on the investment securities portfolio.
unrealized net of tax losses on our securities portfolio
 
totaled $560 million, an increase of $182 million compared with June 30, 2009, primarily reflecting downgrades in the insurance portfolio.
Nonperforming assets
 On Oct. 20, 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of 9 cents per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Nov. 10, 2009 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Oct. 30, 2009.
Declaration of quarterly dividend
 
3
BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $22.1 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $966 billion in assets under management, services $11.9 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.6 trillion per day. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through Sept. 30, 2009 and are available at (Investor Relations  Financial Reports).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on Oct. 20, 2009. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (International) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on Oct. 20, 2009. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning Oct. 20, 2009 at approximately 2:00 p.m. EDT through Nov. 3, 2009 by dialing (866) 442-1776 (U.S.) or (203) 369-1076 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
Investment Securities Portfolio
The following table provides a trend of the aggregate unrealized pre-tax gain (loss) of the investment securities portfolio.
 
 
The following table provides the pro forma impact of restructuring the investment securities portfolio at Sept. 30, 2009.
 
 
9
Investment securities portfolio restructuring
Consistent with our ongoing strategy to reduce risk from the balance sheet, and reflecting the recent improvement in the fixed income markets, we have sold or are in the process of restructuring the watch list portion of our investment securities portfolio.
The restructuring impacts approximately $12.1 billion (pre-restructuring amortized cost) of investment securities. As a result of investment securities sales and restructuring in the third quarter of 2009, we recognized a charge of $4.8 billion (pre-tax). Subsequent to Sept. 30, 2009, approximately $2.1 billion (pre-restructuring amortized cost of $3.6 billion) of the lowest quality securities were sold at fair value. The majority of the remaining restructured securities are expected to be retained on the balance sheet. Approximately 50% of the charge relates to securities that we plan to retain an interest in and for which we expect to recover a portion of the loss over time. In the fourth quarter of 2009, any declines in the fair value of these securities will be reflected in our net income until the restructuring is complete.
The restructuring charge had a minimal impact on the tangible capital ratio, as 90% of the charge had previously been reflected in tangible capital.
As a result of the restructuring, we expect net interest revenue to be positively impacted by approximately $125-$175 million in 2010.
The fair value of the investment securities portfolio at Sept. 30, 2009 was $54.1 billion. On a pro forma basis, reflecting the subsequent sale of securities, the fair value at Sept. 30, 2009 was $52.0 billion. The unrealized loss on the portfolio was $1.4 billion at Sept. 30, 2009 compared with $7.7 billion at June 30, 2009. The improvement reflects $4.8 billion related to the restructuring and $1.5 billion ($1.8 billion without the FAS 157-4 adjustment) resulting from the improvement in the fixed income markets.
Discontinued operations
In the second quarter of 2009, we adopted discontinued operations accounting for Mellon United National Bank located in Florida. It was determined that this business no longer fits our strategic focus on our asset management and securities servicing businesses. In July 2009, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Mellon United National Bank. Subject to regulatory approval, the transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2010. This business was formerly included in the Other segment. In the third quarter of 2009, we recorded an after-tax loss on discontinued operations of $19 million primarily related to additional provision for credit losses resulting from the further deterioration of the South Florida real estate market. The after-tax loss of $151 million in the first nine months of 2009 primarily reflects the impairment and write-down of goodwill and an increase in the provision for credit losses.
 
10
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets is a measure of capital strength that adds additional useful information to investors supplementing the Tier 1 capital ratio which is utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 ratio, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue and earnings measures which exclude the effect of investment securities losses and SILO/LILO charge; expense measures which exclude an FDIC special assessment, support agreement charges, asset-based taxes, M&I expenses and intangible amortization expenses; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as the benefit of tax settlements. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude some or all of these items are also presented. We also present the aggregate unrealized securities losses excluding the impact of FAS 157-4 to provide investors with the impact disorderly markets had on the investment securities portfolio and the subsequent conversion to an orderly market. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where valuation or other accounting/regulatory requirements require charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expense relates to our Corporate Trust acquisition in 2006 and to the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction, and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the transaction. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expense provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of investment securities losses, BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Asset and Wealth Management and Institutional Services. The management of these sectors is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. As a result, BNY Mellon believes that presenting measures that exclude investment securities losses from its results, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses. The SILO/LILO charges relate to a one-time settlement with the IRS of tax structured lease transactions in 2008. In this Earnings Release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. We also present earnings information excluding the TARP redemption premium and dividend, so as to provide investors with a better understanding of operational results.
 
11
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and on a business segment basis.
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, expectations with respect to the restructuring of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio, including statements with respect to the impact of the restructuring on future pricing, net interest revenue and risk of future securities losses, retention of the remaining restructured securities; the reflection of declines in the fair value of securities in BNY Mellon's net income; expectations with respect to declines in the provision for credit losses; and expectations with respect to the closing of the sale of Mellon United National Bank. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this earnings release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and BNY Mellon's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this earnings release speak only as of Oct. 20, 2009 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
15


