FILE:BK/BK-8K-20100420065945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 20, 2010, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for first quarter 2010 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS FIRST QUARTER CONTINUING EPS OF $0.49 OR $601 MILLION;
ASSET AND WEALTH MANAGEMENT FEES +13% YEAR-OVER-YEAR
CREDIT QUALITY TRENDS IMPROVING
STRONG CAPITAL GENERATION
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported first quarter income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $601 million, or $0.49 per common share, compared with $363 million, or $0.31 per common share, in the first quarter of 2009 and $712 million, or $0.59 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2009.
NEW YORK, April 20, 2010  
"The economic outlook is clearly improving as demonstrated by the performance of the equity and credit markets. Persistent low interest rates globally continue to be a challenge, but our focus on winning new business together with well-controlled expenses resulted in positive operating leverage," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"We continue to reinvest in our businesses, and during the quarter announced two important asset servicing acquisitions. Both are expected to be immediately accretive to earnings and close in the third quarter," added Mr. Kelly.
 
1
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the first quarter of 2010 and are compared to the first quarter of 2009, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for detailed business segment information.
First Quarter Results 
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
The decreased to $35 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared with $65 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. The decrease in the provision reflects improvements in our highest-risk asset classes. During the first quarter of 2010, the total allowance for credit losses increased $10 million and net charge-offs totaled $25 million. Nonperforming assets totaled $459 million, a decrease of $91 million, or 17%, compared with Dec. 31, 2009 primarily due to repayments and charge-offs.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
 
The was 29.0% in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of the litigation reserves, restructuring charges and M&I expenses, the effective tax rate was approximately 30.8% (Non-GAAP) in the first quarter of 2010.
effective tax rate
The improved to $189 million at March 31, 2010 from $705 million at Dec. 31, 2009, primarily due to improved credit spreads.
unrealized net of tax losses on our investment securities portfolio
 
3
 On April 20, 2010, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.09 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on May 11, 2010 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 30, 2010.
Declaration of quarterly dividend
BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $22.4 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $1.1 trillion in assets under management, services $11.8 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.5 trillion per day. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through March 31, 2010 and are available at (Investor RelationsFinancial Reports).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on April 20, 2010. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (International) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental Financial Trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on April 20, 2010. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning April 20, 2010 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Tuesday, May 4, 2010 by dialing (800) 214-3608 (U.S.) or (402) 220-3754 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
Adoption of new accounting standard
On Jan. 1, 2010, we adopted SFAS No. 167, "Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46 (R)" (Topic 810, ). At March 31, 2010, our balance sheet included $3.1 billion for the consolidation of certain asset management funds, seed capital investments and securitizations, including $394 million of Class A Notes of the Grantor Trust. The new statement increased our balance sheet by $2.7 billion, or approximately 1%, from year-end.
Consolidations
The consolidated asset management funds are disclosed separately on the balance sheet and the securitizations are included in available for sale securities. The income statement separately discloses the operations of consolidated asset management funds ($52 million) and the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated asset management funds ($30 million). The net of these income statement line items ($22 million) was previously disclosed in the income statement as asset and wealth management revenue of $6 million and investment income of $16 million.
Investment securities portfolio
At March 31, 2010, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio totaled $55.5 billion. The unrealized pre-tax loss on our securities portfolio was $242 million at March 31, 2010 compared with $1.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2009 and $8.0 billion at March 31, 2009.
The following table presents the March 31, 2010 investment securities portfolio.
 
 
9
Nonperforming assets
 
Nonperforming assets decreased $91 million compared with Dec. 31, 2009. The decrease primarily resulted from repayments and charge-offs.
Discontinued operations
In the second quarter of 2009, we adopted discontinued operations accounting for Mellon United National Bank ("MUNB") located in Florida. It was determined that this business no longer fit our strategic focus on our asset management and securities servicing businesses. On Jan. 15, 2010, we completed the sale of MUNB. This business was formerly included in the Other segment. In the first quarter of 2010, we recorded an after-tax loss on discontinued operations of $42 million primarily reflecting lower of cost or market write-downs on the retained loans.
Consolidated net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations
Net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, totaled $559 million, or $0.46 per common share, in the first quarter of 2010 compared with $322 million, or $0.28 per common share, in the first quarter of 2009 and $593 million, or $0.49 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible total assets of operations is a measure of capital strength that adds additional useful information to investors supplementing the Tier 1 capital ratio which is utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 ratio, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for
 
10
investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net securities gains (losses) and noncontrolling interests related to consolidated asset management funds and expense measures which exclude litigation reserves, restructuring charges, M&I expenses and intangible amortization expenses; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude some or all of these items are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where valuation or other accounting/regulatory requirements require charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses primarily relate to the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction, and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Asset and Wealth Management and Institutional Services. The management of these sectors is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. With regards to higher yields related to the restructured investment securities portfolio, client deposits serve as the primary funds source for our investment securities portfolio and we typically allocate all interest revenue to the businesses generating the deposits. Accordingly, the higher yield related to the restructured investment securities portfolio has been included in the segment results. Restructuring charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions. Excluding the discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages permits investors to calculate the tax impact of BNY Mellon's primary businesses. The presentation of financial measures excluding litigation reserves in the first quarter of 2010 provides investors with the ability to view performance metrics on the basis that management views results. The presentation of income of consolidated asset management funds, net of noncontrolling interests related to the consolidation of certain asset management funds, permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with prior periods. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.
In this Earnings Release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business segment basis.
 
11
 
 
12
 
13
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, expectations with respect to the economic outlook, reinvestment in our businesses, intended acquisitions, including the expected impact on earnings and the timing of anticipated closing, and credit ratings of the RMBS in the Grantor Trust. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this earnings release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009 and BNY Mellon's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this earnings release speak only as of April 20, 2010 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
14


