FILE:BK/BK-8K-20100120070142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On January 20, 2010, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for full year 2009 and fourth quarter 2009. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
(d) EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER CONTINUING EPS OF $0.59 OR $712 MILLION;
NET BENEFIT OF $0.04 DUE TO:
ASSET AND WEALTH MANAGEMENT FEES +13% SEQUENTIALLY
SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED RESTRUCTURING OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES PORTFOLIO
CAPITAL RATIOS REMAIN STRONG
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE:BK) today reported fourth quarter income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $712 million, or $0.59 per common share, compared with $50 million, or $0.04 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2008 and a loss of $2.439 billion, or $2.04 per common share, in the third quarter of 2009.
NEW YORK, Jan. 20, 2010 
"We saw excellent growth in asset and wealth management revenues this quarter, which benefited from long-term flows, the contribution from Insight Investment Management, higher equity values and stronger investment performance. However, the persistent low interest rate environment globally increasingly challenged our net interest revenue and fee revenue," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"In 2009, we completed our merger, raised equity and repaid TARP, successfully completed the restructuring of our investment securities portfolio and ended the year with strong capital ratios. I want to thank all of our employees, as our accomplishments in a very challenging year reflect their excellent work and dedication," added Mr. Kelly.
The net loss from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders totaled $1.097 billion, or $0.93 per common share, for the full year 2009 compared to net income of $1.398 billion, or $1.21 per common share, for the full year 2008. Net loss applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, for the full-year 2009 totaled $1.367 billion, or $1.16 per common share, compared to net income of $1.386 billion, or $1.20 per common share, for the full-year 2008.
 
1
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the fourth quarter of 2009 and are compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for detailed business segment information.
Fourth Quarter Results 
Total revenue
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
The decreased to $65 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared with $147 million in the third quarter of 2009. The decrease in the provision reflects a lower number of downgrades in the fourth quarter of 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the total allowance for credit losses increased $32 million and net charge-offs totaled $33 million.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
Results for the fourth quarter of 2009 include a of $41 million which consists primarily of a $51 million benefit from a higher proportion of foreign earnings, as well as a $133 million benefit from discrete tax items primarily related to a tax loss on mortgages. Excluding the impact of the restructuring charges, M&I expenses, securities gains and the discrete tax benefit, the effective tax rate was approximately 22% (Non-GAAP) in the fourth quarter of 2009.
net income tax benefit
The was $783 million at Dec. 31, 2009 compared with a net of tax unrealized loss of $1.0 billion at Sept. 30, 2009.
unrealized net of tax losses on our investment securities portfolio
 
totaled $550 million, a decrease of $10 million compared with Sept. 30, 2009.
Nonperforming assets
 On Jan. 20, 2010, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.09 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Feb. 9, 2010 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Feb. 1, 2010.
Declaration of quarterly dividend
 
3
BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $22.3 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $1.1 trillion in assets under management, services $12.0 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.6 trillion per day. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through Dec. 31, 2009 and are available at (Investor RelationsFinancial Reports).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EST on Wednesday, Jan. 20, 2010. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (International) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EST on Jan. 20, 2010. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning Jan. 20, 2010 at approximately 2:00 p.m. EST through Wednesday, Feb. 3, 2010 by dialing (800) 664-4219 (U.S.) or (203) 369-3307 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
Investment Securities Portfolio
At Dec. 31, 2009, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio totaled $55.9 billion. The unrealized pre-tax loss on our securities portfolio was $1.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2009 compared with $1.4 billion at Sept. 30, 2009 and $7.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2008.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, we securitized $5.0 billion, fair value, of our investment securities portfolio into a Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust contains Alt-A, prime and subprime RMBS which were previously written down to fair value as part of the 3Q09 restructuring of the investment securities portfolio. As a result of this transaction, we received $771 million in cash for a Class A senior tranche that was sold to third parties and retained Class B certificates with a fair value of $4.2 billion, which is included in the tables below. The transaction resulted in a $39 million net loss in the fourth quarter of 2009, which was offset by $54 million of net gains on the sale of $3.6 billion of investment securities. The following table presents the fourth quarter 2009 activity related to restructuring and reducing risk in the investment securities portfolio.
 
 
 
 
9
Restructuring charge
As part of an ongoing effort to improve efficiency and develop a global operating model that provides the highest quality of service to our clients, BNY Mellon continues to execute its global location strategy. This strategy includes migrating positions to our global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions.
In December 2009, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $139 million, or $0.07 per common share. This charge was comprised of $102 million for severance costs and $37 million for asset write-offs and other costs. The restructuring charge is recorded as a separate line on the income statement.
Discontinued operations
In the second quarter of 2009, we adopted discontinued operations accounting for Mellon United National Bank located in Florida. It was determined that this business no longer fit our strategic focus on our asset management and securities servicing businesses. In July 2009, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Mellon United National Bank. The transaction was completed on Jan. 15, 2010. This business was formerly included in the Other segment. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded an after-tax loss on discontinued operations of $119 million largely related to additional write-downs primarily for retained South Florida real estate loans. The value of these loans, which are carried at the lower of cost or market, was $383 million (face value of $635 million) at Dec. 31, 2009. The after-tax loss of $270 million for the full-year of 2009 primarily reflects the loan write-downs and the elimination of $82 million of goodwill recorded in the second quarter of 2009.
Consolidated net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations
Net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, totaled $593 million, or $0.49 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared with $28 million, or $0.02 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2008 and a net loss of $2.458 billion, or $2.05 per common share, in the third quarter of 2009.
Income statement adjustments
The following reclassifications were made to the income statement in the second quarter 2009.
 
 
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets is a measure of capital strength that adds additional useful information to investors supplementing the Tier 1 capital ratio which is utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 ratio, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it
 
10
excludes preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue and earnings measures which exclude the effect of investment securities gains (losses) and SILO/LILO charge; expense measures which exclude restructuring charges, an FDIC special assessment, support agreement charges, asset-based taxes, M&I expenses and intangible amortization expenses; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as the benefit of tax settlements and discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude some or all of these items are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where valuation or other accounting/regulatory requirements require charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses relates to our Corporate Trust acquisition in 2006 and to the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction, and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of investment securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Asset and Wealth Management and Institutional Services. The management of these sectors is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. As a result, BNY Mellon believes that presenting measures that exclude investment securities gains (losses) from its results, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses. The SILO/LILO charges relate to a one-time settlement with the IRS of tax structured lease transactions in 2008. Restructuring charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions. In this Earnings Release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
 
11
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and on a business segment basis.
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
14
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, expectations with respect to BNY Mellon's global location strategy. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this earnings release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and BNY Mellon's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this earnings release speak only as of Jan. 20, 2010 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
15


