FILE:BK/BK-8K-20100716171134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Corporation") has notified executive officers who are currently parties to change in control severance agreements with the Corporation (including Robert P. Kelly, Thomas P. Gibbons, Gerald L. Hassell and Steven G. Elliott, who are named executive officers of the Corporation) of the Corporation's intent to terminate each such agreement, effective upon the expiration of the notice period required under each such agreement. In connection with such notification, certain executive officers are being offered the opportunity to voluntarily waive coverage under their change in control agreements, to acknowledge cancellation and/or clarification of certain other benefits and to commence participation under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive Severance Plan (described below).
.
Adoption of Severance Plan
In addition, on July 13, 2010, the Corporation adopted The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan"), which provides severance benefits under certain circumstances to Plan participants, who are selected by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board (the "HRCC"). The Corporation's executive officers (including the named executive officers identified above) will only be eligible to participate in the Plan if they agree to waive their existing change in control agreements, as described above, and they shall not be entitled to duplicative benefits.
Under the Plan, if an eligible participant is terminated by the Corporation without "cause" (as defined in the Plan), the participant is eligible to receive a severance payment equal to two times the participant's base salary for the year of termination (or, if greater, for the year before the year of termination), a pro-rata annual bonus for the year of termination, benefit continuation for two years and outplacement services for one year, provided the participant signs a release and waiver of claims in favor of the Corporation. If a participant's employment is terminated by the Corporation without cause or if the participant terminates his or her employment for "good reason" (as defined in the Plan) within two years following a "change in control" (as defined in the Plan), then instead of receiving the benefits described above, the participant is eligible to receive a severance payment equal to two times the sum of the participant's base salary and target annual bonus for the year of termination (or, if greater, for the year before the year of termination), a pro-rata target annual bonus for the year of termination, benefit continuation for two years and outplacement services for one year. If any payment under the Plan would cause a participant to become subject to the excise tax imposed under section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, then payments and benefits will be reduced to the amount that would not cause the participant to be subject to the excise tax if such a reduction would put the participant in a better after tax position than if the participant were to pay the tax.
Payments and benefits that are payable under the Plan would be reduced to the extent that the amount of such payments or benefits would exceed the amount permitted to be paid under the Corporation's Policy Regarding Shareholder Approval Of Future Senior Officer Severance Arrangements (as described below) and such amounts are not approved by the Corporation's shareholders in accordance with the Policy. The Corporation has determined that the Plan does not require shareholder approval under the terms of the Policy.
The foregoing descriptions of the Plan and notice letter are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan and the form of notice letter. A copy of the Plan is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1. A copy of the form of notice letter is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
The Policy applies only to future severance arrangements. Future severance arrangements do not include existing severance agreements, unless the severance agreement is modified in such a way as to materially increase benefits. The Board of Directors retains the right to amend the Policy and will promptly disclose any amendment.
The foregoing description of the Policy is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Policy. A copy of the Policy is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.3.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
1. . The purpose of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive Severance Plan (the "") is to retain certain senior executives of the Corporation by reason of providing appropriate severance benefits and to ensure their continued dedication to their duties in connection with certain types of termination of employment after a Change in Control (as defined in Section 2(e) below).
Purpose
Plan
2. . As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions
(a) "" means the annual bonus awarded to a Participant by the Corporation from time to time.
Annual Incentive Award
(b) "" means the Participant's annual rate of base salary for the year in which the Participant's Date of Termination occurs (or, if greater, for the year before the year of termination).
Base Salary
(c) "" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation and, after a Change in Control, the "board of directors" of the Parent Corporation or Surviving Corporation, as the case may be, as defined for purposes of Section 2(e).
Board
(d) "" means any of the following with respect to a Participant:
Cause
(i) The Participant's continued failure, in a material way, to perform his or her responsibilities to the Corporation or a Subsidiary, demand for substantial performance has been given by the Board, any officer of the Corporation to whom the Participant reports or any higher level officer that specifically identifies how the Participant has not substantially performed his or her responsibilities; , , that following a Change in Control, in order to terminate a Participant's employment under this Section 2(d)(i), such failure must be determined to be willful. A Participant's failure to perform under this Section 2(d)(i) does not, however, include failure resulting from the Participant's incapacity due to mental or physical illness or injury or from any permitted leave required by law or any failure after the Participant gives notice of termination for Good Reason or the Corporation gives notice of termination other than for Cause or Disability.
after
provided
however
(ii) The Participant's violation of the Code of Conduct and Interpretative Guidance of the Corporation or any rule or regulation governing the conduct of the Corporation's business or the Participant's employment with the Corporation.
(iii) The Participant's conviction of, or plea of guilty or to, a crime (other than a minor traffic offense).
nolo contendere
(iv) The Participant being subject to the prohibitions of Section 19(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any similar statute, rule or regulation.
(v) The Participant's fraud or material dishonesty in connection with the business of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, including but not limited to, the Participant taking actions or failing to take actions in a manner intending to result in personal gain at the expense of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries.
(vi) The Participant's breach of his or her fiduciary duties to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries.
For this definition, no act or omission by a Participant will be "willful" unless it is made by the Participant in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that such act or omission was in the best interests of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries and any act or omission by a Participant based on authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or the HRCC, on the advice of counsel for the Corporation or on the instruction of any officer of the Corporation to whom the Participant reports or any higher level officer will be deemed made in good faith and in the best interests of the Corporation.
(e) "" means the occurrence of any one of the following events:
Change in Control
(i) During any period of not more than two (2) years, the Incumbent Directors no longer represent a majority of the Board. "" are (A) the members of the Board as of July 1, 2007 and (B) any individual who becomes a director subsequent to the date hereof whose appointment or nomination was approved by at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by specific vote or by approval, without prior written notice to the Board objecting to the nomination, of a proxy statement in which the member was named as nominee). However, the Incumbent Directors will not include anyone who becomes a member of the Board after the date hereof as a result of an actual or threatened election contest or proxy or consent solicitation on behalf of anyone other than the Board, including as a result of any appointment, nomination or other agreement intended to avoid or settle a contest or solicitation;
Incumbent Directors
(ii) There is a beneficial owner of securities entitled to 30% or more of the total voting power of the Corporation's then-outstanding securities in respect of the election of the Board (the ""), other than (A) the Corporation, any Subsidiary of it or any employee benefit plan or related trust sponsored or maintained by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of it; (B) any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of them; (C) anyone who becomes a beneficial owner of that percentage of Voting Securities as a result of an Excluded Transaction (as defined in Section 2(e)(iii)); or (D) anyone who becomes a beneficial owner of that percentage of Voting Securities as a result of a transaction in which Voting Securities are acquired from the Corporation, if the transaction is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors in a resolution that expressly states that the transaction is not a Change in Control under this Section 2(e); or
Voting Securities
(iii) Consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction (including an exchange offer combined with a merger or consolidation) involving the Corporation (a "") or a sale, lease or
Reorganization
 
other disposition (including by way of a series of transactions or by way of merger, consolidation, stock sale or similar transaction involving one or more subsidiaries) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's consolidated assets (a "") other than an Excluded Transaction. A Reorganization or Sale is an "" if immediately following it: (A) 50% or more of the total voting power of the Surviving Corporation's then-outstanding securities in respect of the election of directors (or similar officials in the case of a non-corporation) is represented by Voting Securities outstanding immediately before the Reorganization or Sale or by securities into which such Voting Securities were converted in the Reorganization or Sale; (B) there is no beneficial owner of securities entitled to 30% or more of the total voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the Surviving Corporation in respect of the election of directors (or similar officials in the case of a non-corporation); and (C) a majority of the board of directors of the Surviving Corporation (or similar officials in the case of a non-corporation) were Incumbent Directors at the time the Board approved the execution of the initial agreement providing for the Reorganization or Sale. The "" means in a Reorganization, the entity resulting from the Reorganization or in a Sale, the entity that has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, except that, if there is a beneficial owner of securities entitled to 95% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors or similar officials in the case of a non-corporation) of the then-outstanding securities of the entity that would otherwise be the Surviving Corporation, then that beneficial owner will be the Surviving Corporation. (Any Reorganization or Sale which does not satisfy all of the criteria specified in (A), (B) and (C) shall be deemed a "").
Sale
Excluded Transaction
Surviving Corporation
Qualifying Transaction
(iv) the stockholders of the Corporation approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.
(f) "" means the period of time beginning with a Change in Control and ending two (2) years following such Change in Control.
CIC Termination Period
(g) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(h) "" means The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.
Corporation
(i) "" means (i) the effective date on which the Participant's employment by the Corporation terminates as specified in a prior written notice by the Corporation or the Participant, as the case may be, to the other, delivered pursuant to Section 8 or (ii) if the Participant's employment by the Corporation terminates by reason of death, the date of death of the Participant.
Date of Termination
(j) "" shall mean long-term disability under the terms of the Corporation's long-term disability plan, as then in effect.
Disability
(k) "" means the occurrence, following a Change in Control, of one or more of the following circumstances, without the Participant's prior written consent, and which circumstance(s) are not cured by the Corporation within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written notice from the Participant describing the circumstances that constitute Good Reason:
Good Reason
(i) any material and adverse change in the Participant's duties or responsibilities with the Corporation, except as required by law, rule or regulation;
 
(ii) any (1) reduction in the Participant's rate of annual base salary, or (2) material reduction in the Participant's overall aggregate annual compensation opportunities (including base salary, annual and long-term target incentive compensation opportunities). With respect to clause (2) above, the Participant acknowledges that a reduction in annual or long-term target incentive compensation opportunities does not constitute Good Reason hereunder so long as the reduction has resulted merely from a pay mix change determined in accordance with applicable opportunity guidelines or consensus market data or law, rule or regulation;
(iii) any requirement that the Participant be based at an office located outside of the country in which the Participant's office is located immediately prior to the Change in Control;
(iv) any other action or inaction by the Corporation (or a Successor) that constitutes a material breach of this Plan (including but not limited to the Corporation's failure to obtain from any Surviving Corporation the assent to this Agreement contemplated by Section 7 hereof).
If the Participant does not provide written notice to the Corporation within forty-five (45) days after the initial existence of an event constituting Good Reason has occurred and terminate employment within ten (10) business days following the end of the thirty (30) day cure period (if the event constituting Good Reason has not been cured during that period), that event will no longer constitute Good Reason. For purposes of clause (i) of Section 2(k)(ii) above, an immaterial or inadvertent reduction in a Participant's rate of annual base salary that is not taken in bad faith and that is remedied by the Corporation promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Participant shall not constitute Good Reason. The Participant's right to terminate employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Participant's incapacity due to mental or physical illness and the Participant's continued employment through the above-mentioned forty-five (45) day notice or thirty (30) day cure periods shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any other event or condition constituting Good Reason.
(l) "" means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board.
HRCC
(m) "" means an investigation authorized by the Board, a self-regulatory organization empowered with self-regulatory responsibilities under federal or state laws or a governmental department or agency.
Investigation
(n) "" means each of the senior executives of the Corporation, who is selected by the HRCC in its sole discretion for coverage by this Plan.
Participant
 
(o) "" means a termination of the Participant's employment with the Corporation (i) by the Corporation other than for Cause or (ii) by the Participant for Good Reason after a Change in Control. Termination of the Participant's employment on account of death, Disability, by the Corporation for Cause or by the Participant other than for Good Reason shall not be treated as a Qualifying Termination. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the death of the Participant after notice of termination for Good Reason or without Cause has been validly provided shall be deemed to be a Qualifying Termination.
Qualifying Termination
(p) "" means any corporation or other entity in which the Corporation has a direct or indirect ownership interest of 50% or more of the total combined voting power of the then outstanding securities or interests of such corporation or other entity entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (or members of any similar governing body) or in which the Corporation has the right to receive 50% or more of the distribution of profits or 50% of the assets or liquidation or dissolution.
Subsidiary
(q) "" means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the final Treasury Regulations issued thereunder.
Section 409A
(r) "" means a Participant's target Annual Incentive Award for the year in which the Participant's Date of Termination occurs (or, if greater, for the year before the year of termination); , , that in the event no target Annual Incentive Award has been established for the Participant for either the year of termination or the year before the year of termination, "Target Annual Incentive Award" shall mean the average Annual Incentive Award paid to the Participant for the three most recent years before the year of termination.
Target Annual Incentive Award
provided
however
3. .
Payments Upon Termination of Employment
(a) . If during a period of time which is not a CIC Termination Period under the Plan, the employment of the Participant is terminated by the Corporation other than for Cause, then, subject to the Participant's execution of a Separation Agreement and Release substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit A (the "", which shall be provided to the Participant no later than five (5) days after the Date of Termination and must be executed by the Participant, become effective and not be revoked by the Participant by the sixtieth (60
Non-Change in Control Qualifying Termination
Separation Agreement and Release
)
th
) day following the Date of Termination, the Corporation shall provide to the Participant:
(i) a cash payment equal to the result of multiplying the Participant's Base Salary by 2.00; and
(ii) a cash payment equal to the Participant's actual Annual Incentive Award for the fiscal year in which the Participant's Date of Termination occurs, multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the number of days the Participant was employed by the Corporation during the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurred and the denominator of which is 365; such pro-rata Annual Incentive Award shall be paid on the same day as annual incentives for the
 
fiscal year in which the Participant's Date of Termination occurs are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Corporation, but in no event later than March 15
th
of the year following the year during which the Date of Termination occurred; and
(iii) for two years after Participant's Date of Termination, Participant, his or her spouse and his or her dependents will continue to be entitled to participate in the Corporation's group health plans in which the Participant participates immediately prior to his or her Date of Termination at the same rate as paid by similarly situated employees from time to time, that the Participant timely elects continuation coverage under Section 4980B(f) of the Code; and , , that to the extent that such health plan does not permit continuation of the Participant's or his or her spouse's or dependents' participation throughout such period, the Corporation shall provide the Participant, on the first business day of each calendar quarter, in advance, with an amount which is equal to the Company's cost of providing such benefits, less the applicable employee rate of participation; and
provided
provided
further
(iv) for a period of one (1) year following the Participant's Date of Termination, the Corporation shall make certain executive-level outplacement services available to the Participant, as provided by the outplacement providers with whom the Corporation has a relationship at the time of Participant's Date of Termination; and
The cash payment specified in paragraph (i) of this Section 3(a) shall be paid in equal installments in accordance with the Corporation's regular payroll practice over the two (2) year period following the Participant's Date of Termination, with such payments commencing on the Corporation payroll date immediately following the sixty-fifth (65th) day following the Date of Termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that a majority of the Incumbent Directors approves the resolution described in Section 2(e)(ii)(D) above that expressly states that a transaction is not a Change in Control under Section 2(e), but such transaction qualifies as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i), then the payment due under paragraph (i) of this Section 3(a), to the extent it shall become payable, shall be paid in a lump sum and shall be paid at the time set forth in the first sentence of the flush paragraph of Section 3(b) below.
(b) . If, during the CIC Termination Period, the employment of the Participant is terminated pursuant to a Qualifying Termination, then, subject to the Participant's execution of a Separation Agreement and Release substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit A, which shall be provided to the Participant no later than five (5) days after the Date of Termination and must be executed by the Participant, become effective and not be revoked by the Participant by the sixtieth (60
Post-Change in Control Qualifying Termination
th
) day following the Date of Termination, the Corporation shall provide to the Participant:
(i) a lump sum cash payment equal to the result of multiplying (A) the sum of (x) the Participant's Base Salary, plus (y) the Participant's Target Annual Incentive Award by (B) 2.00; and
 
(ii) a cash payment equal to the Participant's Target Annual Incentive Award for the fiscal year in which the Participant's Date of Termination occurs, multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the number of days the Participant was employed by the Corporation during the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurred and the denominator of which is 365; and
(iii) for two (2) years after Participant's Date of Termination, Participant, his or her spouse and his or her dependents will continue to be entitled to participate in the Corporation's group health plans in which the Participant participates immediately prior to his or her Date of Termination at the same rate as paid by similarly situated employees from time to time, that the Participant timely elects continuation coverage under Section 4980B(f) of the Code; and , , that to the extent that such health plan does not permit continuation of the Participant's or his or her spouse's or dependents' participation throughout such period, the Corporation shall provide the Participant, on the first business day of each calendar quarter, in advance, with an amount which is equal to the Company's cost of providing such benefits, less the applicable employee rate of participation; and
provided
provided
further
(iv) for a period of one (1) year following the Participant's Date of Termination, the Corporation shall make certain executive-level outplacement services available to the Participant, as provided by the outplacement providers with whom the Corporation has a relationship at the time of Participant's Date of Termination.
The cash payments specified in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this Section 3(b) shall be paid on the sixty-fifth (65
th
) day (or the next following business day if the sixty-fifth (65th) day is not a business day) following the Date of Termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Change in Control does not qualify as a "change in control event" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i), then the payments due under paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this Section 3(b) shall be paid at the time and in the form as set forth in the flush paragraph of Section 3(a) above.
(c) Except as otherwise expressly provided pursuant to this Plan, this Plan shall be construed and administered in a manner which avoids duplication of compensation and benefits which may be provided under any other plan, program, policy, or other arrangement or individual contract or under any statute, rule or regulation. In the event a Participant is covered by any other plan, program, policy, individually negotiated agreement or other arrangement, in effect as of his or her Date of Termination, that may duplicate the payments and benefits provided for in this Section 3, the HRCC is specifically empowered to reduce or eliminate the duplicative benefits provided for under the Plan.
 
4. . The Corporation shall withhold from all payments due to the Participant (or his beneficiary or estate) hereunder all taxes which, by applicable federal, state, local or other law, the Corporation is required to withhold therefrom.
Withholding Taxes
5. . If any contest or dispute shall arise under this Plan involving termination of a Participant's employment with the Corporation or involving the failure or refusal of the Corporation to perform fully in accordance with the terms hereof, each party shall be responsible for its own legal fees and related expenses, if any, incurred in connection with such contest or dispute; , , that, with respect to any contest or dispute arising after a Change in Control, in the event the Participant substantially prevails with respect to such contest or dispute, the Corporation shall reimburse the Participant on a current basis for all reasonable legal fees and related expenses incurred by the Participant in connection with such contest or dispute, which reimbursement shall be made within thirty (30) days after the date the Corporation receives the Participant's statement for such fees and expenses.
Expenses
provided
however
6. . Nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to entitle the Participant to continued employment with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.
Scope of Plan
7. .
Successors; Binding Agreement
(a) This Plan shall not be terminated by any Reorganization or Sale. In the event of any Reorganization or Sale, the provisions of this Plan shall be binding upon the Surviving Corporation, and such Surviving Corporation shall be treated as the Corporation hereunder.
(b) The Corporation agrees that in connection with any Reorganization or Sale it will cause any successor entity to the Corporation unconditionally to assume all of the obligations of the Corporation hereunder. Failure of the Corporation to obtain such assumption prior to the effectiveness of any such Reorganization or Sale that constitutes a Change in Control, shall be a breach of this Plan and shall constitute Good Reason hereunder and shall entitle the Participant to compensation and other benefits from the Corporation in the same amount and on the same terms as the Participant would be entitled hereunder if the Participant's employment were terminated following a Change in Control by reason of a Qualifying Termination. For purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such Reorganization or Sale becomes effective shall be deemed the date Good Reason occurs, and shall be the Date of Termination if requested by a Participant.
(c) The benefits provided under this Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Participant's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If the Participant shall die while any amounts would be payable to the Participant hereunder had the Participant continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan to such person or persons appointed in writing by the Participant to receive such amounts or, if no person is so appointed, to the Participant's estate.
 
8. . (a) For purposes of this Plan, all notices and other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or five (5) days after deposit in the United States mail, certified and return receipt requested, postage prepaid and addressed as follows:
Notice
If to the Participant: the address listed as the Participant's address in the Corporation's personnel files.
If to the Corporation:
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
Attention: General Counsel
One Wall Street
New York, NY, 10286
or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
(b) A written notice of the Participant's Date of Termination by the Corporation or the Participant, as the case may be, to the other, shall (i) indicate the specific termination provision in this Plan relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Participant's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) specify the termination date (which date shall be not less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Participant or the Corporation to set forth in such notice any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Participant or the Corporation hereunder or preclude the Participant or the Corporation from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Participant's or the Corporation's rights hereunder.
9. .
Full Settlement; Resolution of Disputes and Costs
(a) In no event shall the Participant be obligated to seek other employment or take other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Participant under any of the provisions of this Plan and, except as provided in the Separation Agreement and Release, such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Participant obtains other employment.
(b) Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Plan shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in New York by three arbitrators in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association ("") then in effect. One arbitrator shall be selected by the Corporation, the other by the Participant and the third jointly by these arbitrators (or if they are unable to agree within thirty (30) days of the commencement of arbitration, the third arbitrator will be appointed by the AAA). Judgment may be entered on the arbitrators' award in any court having jurisdiction. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, any arbitration panel that adjudicates any dispute, controversy or claim arising between a Participant and the
AAA
 
Corporation, or any of their delegates or successors, in respect of a Participant's Qualifying Termination that occurs after a Change in Control, will apply a standard of review to any determinations made by such person. Such standard shall apply notwithstanding the grant of full discretion hereunder to any such person or characterization of any such decision by such person as final, binding or conclusive on any party.
de
novo
de
novo
10. . Employment with the Corporation for purposes of this Plan shall include employment with any Subsidiary.
Employment with Subsidiaries
11. . The respective obligations and benefits afforded to the Corporation and the Participant as provided in Section 3 (to the extent that payments or benefits are owed as a result of a termination of employment that occurs during the term of this Plan), 4, 5, 7(c) and 9 shall survive the termination of this Plan.
Survival
12. . EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THIS PLAN IS SUBJECT TO ERISA, THE INTERPRETATION, CONSTRUCTION AND PERFORMANCE OF THIS PLAN SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLE OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS, AND APPLICABLE FEDERAL LAWS. THE INVALIDITY OR UNENFORCEABILITY OF ANY PROVISION OF THIS PLAN SHALL NOT AFFECT THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS PLAN, WHICH OTHER PROVISIONS SHALL REMAIN IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT.
GOVERNING LAW; VALIDITY
13. . The HRCC may amend or terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of the Participants; , , that Participants must be given at least twelve (12) months' notice of amendments that are adverse to the interests of the Participants (except that termination of a Participant's participation in the Plan may be made with three (3) months' notice) or planned termination of the Plan, and , , that any termination or amendments to the Plan that are adverse to the interests of any Participant and made in anticipation of a Change of Control shall give a Participant the right to enforce his or her rights pursuant to Section 15. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during the period commencing on a Change in Control and ending on the second anniversary of the Change in Control, the Plan may not be amended or terminated by the HRCC (or any successor committee thereto), any Participant's participation hereunder may not be terminated, and the Policy (as defined below) may not be amended by the Board, in each case, in any manner which is materially adverse to the interests of any Participant without the prior written consent of such Participant.
Amendment and Termination
provided
however
provided
further
14. . The Plan shall be administered by the HRCC (or any successor committee). The HRCC (or any successor committee) shall have the authority (i) to exercise all of the powers granted to it under the Plan, (ii) to construe, interpret and implement the Plan, (iii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, (iv) to make all determinations necessary or advisable in administration of the Plan, (v) to correct any defect, supply any omission and reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan, and (vi) to delegate its responsibilities and authority hereunder to a subcommittee of the HRCC. Actions of the Board or the HRCC (or any successor committee) shall be taken by a majority vote of its members.
Interpretation and Administration
 
15. . Participants may submit claims for benefits by giving notice to the Corporation pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan. If a Participant believes that he or she has not received coverage or benefits to which he or she is entitled under the Plan, the Participant may notify the HRCC in writing of a claim for coverage or benefits. If the claim for coverage or benefits is denied in whole or in part, the HRCC shall notify the applicant in writing of such denial within thirty (30) days (which may be extended to sixty (60) days under special circumstances), with such notice setting forth: (i) the specific reasons for the denial; (ii) the Plan provisions upon which the denial is based; (iii) any additional material or information necessary for the applicant to perfect his or her claim; and (iv) the procedures for requesting a review of the denial. Upon a denial of a claim by the HRCC, the Participant may: (i) request a review of the denial by the HRCC or, where review authority has been so delegated, by such other person or entity as may be designated by the HRCC for this purpose; (ii) review any Plan documents relevant to his or her claim; and (iii) submit issues and comments to the HRCC or its delegate that are relevant to the review. Any request for review must be made in writing and received by the HRCC or its delegate within sixty (60) days of the date the applicant received notice of the initial denial, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing. The HRCC or its delegate will make a written ruling on the applicant's request for review setting forth the reasons for the decision and the Plan provisions upon which the denial, if appropriate, is based. This written ruling shall be made within thirty (30) days of the date the HRCC or its delegate receives the applicant's request for review unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible, but not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the request for review. All extensions of time permitted by this Section 15 will be permitted at the sole discretion of the HRCC or its delegate. If the HRCC does not provide the Participant with written notice of the denial of his or her appeal, the Participant's claim shall be deemed denied.
Claims and Appeals
16. . This Plan is intended to be, and shall be interpreted as an unfunded employee welfare plan under Section 3(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("") and Section 2520.104-24 of the Department of Labor Regulations, maintained primarily for the purpose of providing employee welfare benefits, to the extent that it provides welfare benefits, and under Sections 201, 301 and 401 of ERISA, as a plan that is unfunded and maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation, to the extent that it provides such compensation, in each case for a select group of management or highly compensated employees (i.e., a "top hat" plan).
Type of Plan
ERISA
17. . Benefits under the Plan may not be assigned by the Participant. The terms and conditions of the Plan shall be binding on the successors and assigns of the Corporation.
Nonassignability
 
18. .
Section 409A
(a) To the extent a Participant would otherwise be entitled to any payment or benefit that under this Plan, or any plan or arrangement of the Corporation or its affiliates, constitutes "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A and that if paid or provided during the six (6) months beginning on the date of termination of a Participant's employment would be subject to the Section 409A additional tax because the Participant is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A and as determined by the Corporation) the payment or benefit will be paid or provided (or will commence being paid or provided, as applicable) to the Participant on the earlier of the six (6) month anniversary of the Participant's date of termination or the Participant's death. In addition, any payment or benefit due upon a termination of the Participant's employment that represents a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A shall be paid or provided to the Participant only upon a "separation from service" as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). Each severance payment made under this Plan shall be deemed to be separate payments, and amounts payable under Section 3 of this Plan shall be deemed not to be a "deferral of compensation" subject to Section 409A to the extent provided in the exceptions in Treasury Regulation Sections 1.409A-1(b)(4) ("short-term deferrals") and (b)(9) ("separation pay plans," including the exception under subparagraph (iii)) and other applicable provisions of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1 through A-6.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or elsewhere, any payment or benefit under this Plan or otherwise that is exempt from Section 409A pursuant to final Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(A) or (C) shall be paid or provided to the Participant only to the extent that the expenses are not incurred, or the benefits are not provided, beyond the last day of the Participant's second taxable year following the Participant's taxable year in which the "separation from service" occurs; and provided further that such expenses are reimbursed no later than the last day of the Participant's third taxable year following the taxable year in which the Participant's "separation from service" occurs. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to the extent any expense reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit under this Plan is determined to be subject to Section 409A, the amount of any such expenses eligible for reimbursement, or the provision of any in-kind benefit, in one (1) calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year (except for any lifetime or other aggregate limitation applicable to medical expenses), in no event shall any expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Participant incurred such expenses, and in no event shall any right to reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or elsewhere, in the event that a Participant waives the provisions of another severance or change in control agreement or arrangement to participate in this Plan and such participation in this Plan is later determined to be a "substitution" (within the meaning of Section 409A) for the benefits under such agreement or arrangement, then any payment or benefit under this Plan that such Participant becomes entitled to receive during the remainder of the waived term of such agreement or arrangement shall be payable in accordance with the time and form of payment provisions of such agreement or arrangement.
19. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any payments or benefits payable to a Participant under this Plan shall be subject to reduction to the extent that such payment or benefit would exceed the amount
Certain Reductions; Recoupment
 
permitted to be paid under the Corporation's Policy Regarding Shareholder Approval of Future Senior Officer Severance Arrangements as in effect as of the date of termination or, if earlier, immediately prior to a Change in Control (the "Policy"), as in effect from time to time, and such amounts are not approved by, or are not submitted for the approval of, the Corporation's shareholders in accordance with such policy. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in no event shall any payment or benefit under this Plan be paid, provided or accrued, if any such payment, provision or accrual would be in violation of applicable law, rule or regulation (""). In addition, to the extent that any provision of Applicable Law or any recoupment policy or practice of the Corporation as in effect from time to time requires any payments or benefits paid (or provided or to be paid or provided) to a Participant to be forfeited or recouped from the Participant, each such payment or benefit shall be subject to forfeiture or recoupment, as applicable, and such Participant's right to receive or retain each such payment or benefit shall terminate. Without limiting the foregoing, if the Corporation reasonably believes that a Participant engaged in fraud, or directly or indirectly caused or contributed to any financial restatement or other irregularity during the performance period to which a cash incentive award paid hereunder relates, the Corporation may require the Participant to repay some or all of such award within three (3) years after the award date.
Applicable Law
20. . The Plan shall be effective as of July 13, 2010.
Effective Date
 
(a) Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that (i) any payment, award, benefit or distribution (or any acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or distribution) by the Corporation (or any of its affiliated entities) or any entity which effectuates a Change in Control (or any of its affiliated entities) to or for the benefit of Executive (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise) (the "") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code (the ""), and (ii) the reduction of the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement to the maximum amount that could be paid to Executive without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the "") would provide the Executive with a greater after tax amount than if such amounts were not reduced, then the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the Safe Harbor Cap. The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing first the payments under paragraph (i) and then paragraph (ii) of Section 3(a) or Section 3(b), as applicable, unless an alternative method of reduction is elected by the Participant within thirty (30) days after first becoming eligible to participate in this Plan.
Payments
Excise Tax
Safe Harbor Cap
(b) All determinations required to be made under this Appendix A, including the reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determinations, shall be made by a public accounting firm that is retained by the Corporation as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control (the "") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Corporation and the Participant within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Corporation or the Participant that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Corporation (collectively, the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, the Accounting Firm may use the Option Redetermination amount in determining the reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event (i) the HRCC shall determine prior to the Change in Control that the Accounting Firm is precluded from performing such services under applicable auditor independence rules or (ii) the Audit Committee of the Board determines that it does not want the Accounting Firm to perform such services because of auditor independence concerns or (iii) the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the person(s) effecting the Change in Control, the HRCC shall appoint another nationally recognized public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Corporation, and the Corporation shall enter into any agreement reasonably requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance of the services hereunder. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by a Participant, it shall furnish the Participant with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on the Participant's applicable federal income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar penalty. In the event the Accounting Firm determines that the Payments shall be reduced to the Safe Harbor Cap, it shall furnish the Participant with a written opinion to such effect. The Determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Participant.
Accounting Firm
Determination
In the event that the Corporation determines that the value of any accelerated vesting of stock options held by the Participant shall be redetermined within the context of Treasury Regulation 1.280G-1 Q/A 33 (the ""), the Participant shall (i) file with the Internal Revenue Service an amended federal income tax return that claims a refund of the overpayment of the Excise Tax attributable to such Option Redetermination and (ii) promptly pay the refunded Excise Tax to the Corporation; that the Corporation shall pay on a current basis all reasonable professional fees incurred in the preparation of the Participant's amended federal income tax return. In the event that amounts payable to the Participant under this Plan were reduced pursuant to paragraph (a) and subsequently the Participant determines there has been an Option Redetermination that reduces the value of the Payments attributable to such options, the Corporation shall pay to the Participant (on the first business day of the calendar month following the month the Option Redetermination is made) any amounts payable under this Plan that were not previously paid solely as a result of the second paragraph of Paragraph (a) up to the Safe Harbor Cap plus interest, from the date the Participant files the amended return as provided above, at the three (3) month Treasury Bill rate.
Option Redetermination
provided
 
[NOTE: The following Agreement is intended for use for US-based Participants. Non-US-based Participants will be subject to an Agreement in the form normally used in the relevant jurisdiction by the Corporation, the effect of which is substantially similar to this Exhibit A.]
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Corporation") and ("") agree as follows:
                                        
Executive
1. . Executive's employment with the Corporation will terminate effective .
Date of Termination
[Date]
2. . Executive agrees to make himself/herself reasonably available to the Corporation to respond to requests by the Corporation for information concerning litigation, regulatory inquiry or Investigation, involving facts or events relating to the Corporation that may be within his/her knowledge. Executive will cooperate fully with the Corporation in connection with any and all future litigation or regulatory proceedings brought by or against the Corporation to the extent the Corporation reasonably deems Executive's cooperation necessary. Executive will be entitled to reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (not including counsel fees) incurred in connection with fulfilling his/her obligations under this Section 2.
Cooperation
3. . In consideration of Executive's undertakings herein, the Corporation will pay an amount equal to $ in accordance with Section 3 of the Corporation's Executive Severance Plan (the ""), less required deductions (including, but not limited to, federal, state and local tax withholdings) as separation/severance pay (the ""). The Severance Payment will be paid in accordance with the Severance Plan. Payment of the Severance Payment is contingent upon the execution of this Agreement by Executive and Executive's compliance with all terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Severance Plan. Executive agrees that if this Agreement does not become effective, the Corporation shall not be required to make any further payments to Executive pursuant to this Agreement or the Severance Plan and shall be entitled to recover all payments already made by it (including interest thereon).
Severance Benefit
                    
Severance Plan
Severance Payment
4. . Executive represents that he/she has returned to the Corporation all property or information, including, without limitation, all reports, files, memos, plans, lists, or other records (whether electronically stored or not) belonging to the Corporation or its affiliates, including copies, extracts or other documents derived from such property or information. Executive will immediately forfeit all rights and benefits under this Agreement and the Severance Plan, including, without limitation, the right to receive or retain any Severance Payment if Executive, directly or indirectly (i) at any time discloses to any third party or entity any trade secrets or other proprietary or confidential information pertaining to the Corporation or any of its affiliates or uses such secrets or information without the prior written consent of the General Counsel of the Corporation; or; (ii) Executive breaches any of Executive's post termination obligations to the Corporation pursuant to an individual agreement, including but not limited to non-solicitation, confidentiality and/or non-competition
Confidential Information; Non-Solicitation; Non-Compete
restrictions (which are incorporated herein by reference); or (iii) to the extent that Executive does not have post termination non-solicitation, confidentiality and/or non-competition obligations in an individual agreement, during the twelve (12) month period after the Date of Termination (A) solicits, influences, encourages, induces, recruits or causes any employee of the Corporation or any person who was an employee of the Corporation within the six (6) month period before Executive's Date of Termination to resign from the Corporation or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise; or (B) solicits or attempt to solicit any of the Corporation's clients and/or customers for whom Executive or the Corporation performed services or actively solicited work from during the six (6) month period before Executive's Date of Termination, to transact business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Corporation or otherwise interferes with or damages any relationship between the Corporation and any such client or customers. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means any business enterprise that either (A) engages in any activity that competes anywhere with any activity that the Corporation or its affiliates is then engaged in or (B) holds a 5% or greater equity, voting or profit participation interest in any enterprise that engages in such a competitive activity and were within the scope of Executive's responsibilities within the twelve (12) months preceding Executive's termination of employment.
Competitive Enterprise
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or prohibit Executive or the Corporation from responding to an order, subpoena, other legal process or regulatory inquiry directed to them or from providing information to or making a filing with a governmental or regulatory body. Executive agrees that upon learning of any order, subpoena or other legal process seeking information that would otherwise be prohibited from disclosure under this Agreement, he/she will promptly notify the Corporation, in writing, directed to the Corporation's General Counsel. In the event disclosure is so required, Executive agrees not to oppose any action by the Corporation to seek or obtain a protective order or other appropriate remedy.
5. Executive hereby represents that he/she has not filed any action, complaint, charge, grievance or arbitration against the Corporation or any of its affiliates in connection with any matters relating, directly or indirectly, to his/her employment, and covenants and agrees not to file any such action, complaint or arbitration or commence any other judicial or arbitral proceedings against the Corporation or any of its affiliates with respect to events occurring prior to the termination of his/her employment with the Corporation or any affiliates thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent Executive from filing a charge or lawsuit challenging the validity of the waiver and release contained herein under OWBPA with respect to claims under ADEA or filing a charge of discrimination with, or participate in, an investigation or proceeding conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (""), but Executive will not be entitled to any monetary or other relief from the EEOC or from any court as a result of litigation brought on the basis of or in connection with such charge, except if, and to the extent that, the release and waiver contained in this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable (in which event, Corporation will be entitled to restitution or set off for the amounts paid to Executive hereunder as and to the extent determined by the court).
EEOC
 
6. . Effective on , the Corporation will cease all health benefit coverage and other benefit coverage for Executive.
Effective Date
[Date]
7. . Effective as of the Effective Date, and in return for the consideration set forth above, Executive agrees not to sue or file any action, claim, or lawsuit against the Corporation, agrees not to pursue, seek to recover or recover any alleged damages, seek to obtain or obtain any other form of relief or remedy with respect to, and cause the dismissal or withdrawal of, any lawsuit, action, claim, or charge against the Corporation, and Executive agrees to waive all claims and release and forever discharge the Corporation, its officers, directors, subsidiaries, affiliates, parents, attorneys, shareholders and employees from any claims, demands, actions, causes of action or liabilities for compensatory damages or any other relief or remedy, and obligations of any kind or nature whatsoever, based on any matter, cause or thing, relating in any way, directly or indirectly, to his/her employment, from the beginning of time through the Effective Date of this Agreement, whether known or unknown, fixed or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, and whether arising from tort, statute, or contract, including, but not limited to, any claims arising under or pursuant to the [California Fair Employment and Housing Act,] Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1871, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Rehabilitation Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Occupational Safety & Health Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990 (""), the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, Section 806 of the Corporate and Criminal Fraud Accountability Act of 2002, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (""), New York State Labor Law, New York State Human Rights Law, New York Human Rights Law, and any other state, federal, city, county or local statute, rule, regulation, ordinance or order, or the national or local law of any foreign country, any claim for future consideration for employment with the Corporation, any claims for attorneys' fees and costs and any employment rights or entitlement law, and any claims for wrongful discharge, intentional infliction of emotional distress, defamation, libel or slander, payment of wages, outrageous behavior, breach of contract or any duty allegedly owed to Executive, discrimination based upon race, color, ethnicity, sex, age, national origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or another unlawful criterion or circumstance, and any other theory of recovery. It is the intention of the parties to make this release as broad and as general as the law permits.
General Release
OWBPA
ADEA
Executive acknowledges that he/she is aware of, has read, has had explained to him/her by his/her attorneys, understands and expressly waives any and all rights he/she has or may have under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which provides as follows:
[
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his/her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his/her settlement with the debtor."
]
8. Executive acknowledges that he/she may later discover facts different from or in addition to those which he/she knows or believes to be true now, and he/she agrees that, in such event, this Agreement shall nevertheless remain effective in all respects, notwithstanding such different or additional facts or the discovery of those facts.
 
9. This Agreement may not be introduced in any legal or administrative proceeding, or other similar forum, except one concerning a breach of this Agreement or the Severance Plan.
10. Executive acknowledges that Executive has made an independent investigation of the facts, and does not rely on any statement or representation of the Corporation in entering into this Agreement, other than those set forth herein.
11. Executive agrees that, without limiting the Corporation's remedies, should he/she commence, continue, join in, or in any other manner attempt to assert any claim released in connection herewith, or otherwise violate in a material fashion any of the terms of this Agreement, the Corporation shall not be required to make any further payments to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement or the Severance Plan and shall be entitled to recover all payments already made by it (including interest thereon), in addition to all damages, attorneys' fees and costs the Corporation incurs in connection with Executive's breach of this Agreement. Executive further agrees that the Corporation shall be entitled to the repayments and recovery of damages described above without waiver of or prejudice to the release granted by him/her in connection with this Agreement, and that his/her violation or breach of any provision of this Agreement shall forever release and discharge the Corporation from the performance of its obligations arising from the Agreement.
12. Executive has been advised and acknowledges that he/she has been given [twenty-one (21) [forty-five (45)] days to sign this Agreement, he/she has seven (7) days following his/her signing of this Agreement to revoke and cancel the terms and conditions contained herein, and the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until the revocation period has expired (the "").
Effective Date
13. Executive acknowledges that Executive has been advised hereby to consult with, and has consulted with, an attorney of his/her choice prior to signing this Agreement.
14. Executive acknowledges that Executive has fully read this Agreement, understands the contents of this Agreement, and agrees to its terms and conditions of his/her own free will, knowingly and voluntarily, and without any duress or coercion.
15. Executive understands that this Agreement includes a final general release and restrictive covenants related to confidentiality, non-solicitation and non-competition (including any confidentiality, non-solicitation and/or non-competition restrictions contained in an individual agreement between Executive and the Corporation, which are incorporated herein by reference), and that Executive can make no further claims against the Corporation or the persons listed in Section 7 of this Agreement relating in any way, directly or indirectly, to his/her employment. Executive also understands that this Agreement precludes Executive from recovering any damages or other relief as a result of any lawsuit, grievance, charge or claim brought on Executive's behalf against the Corporation or the persons listed in Section 7 of this Agreement.
16. Executive acknowledges that Executive is receiving adequate consideration (that is in addition to what Executive is otherwise entitled to) for signing this Agreement.
 
17. This Agreement and the Severance Plan constitute the complete understanding between Executive and the Corporation regarding the subject matter hereof and thereof. No other promises or agreements regarding the subject matter hereof and thereof will be binding unless signed by Executive and the Corporation.
18. Executive and the Corporation agree that all notices or other communications required or permitted to be given under the terms of this Agreement shall be given in accordance with Section 9 of the Severance Plan.
19. Executive and the Corporation agree that any disputes relating to any matters covered under the terms of this Agreement shall be resolved in accordance with Section 10 of the Severance Plan.
20. By entering into this Agreement, the Corporation does not admit and specifically denies any liability, wrongdoing or violation of any law, statute, regulation or policy, and it is expressly understood and agreed that this Agreement is being entered into solely for the purpose of amicably resolving all matters of any kind whatsoever between Executive and the Corporation.
21. In the event that any provision or portion of this Agreement shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions or portions of this Agreement shall be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law.
22. The respective rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall survive any termination of this Agreement to the extent necessary for the intended preservation of such rights and obligations.
23. Unless expressly specified elsewhere in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without reference to the principles of conflict of law.
24. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
July , 2010
    
Name Address
Dear :
                    
As you know, we have established The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive Severance Plan ("Executive Severance Plan"). The Executive Severance Plan is designed to put eligible senior executives on a level playing field with respect to change in control and severance pay and benefit protection, and is intended to replace the various legacy and individually negotiated agreements we now have.
[For Named Executive Officers With a Change In Control Agreement From Mellon Financial Corporation
As part of the process of rolling out the new Executive Severance Plan, this letter provides you with three (3) years written notice of the cancellation by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation of your [DATE] "Change in Control" Agreement entered into with Mellon Financial Corporation, as amended (the "Agreement"). The effective date of the termination will be [DATE]; provided that, in accordance with the Agreement, if a Change in Control (as defined therein) occurs during the term of the Agreement, the Agreement will continue in effect for a period of three years after such Change in Control.
OR
For Named Executive Officers With a Change In Control Agreement From The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
As part of the process of rolling out the new Executive Severance Plan, this letter provides written notice that The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation will not extend your [DATE} "Change in Control" agreement with The Bank of New York Company, Inc., as amended ("Change in Control Agreement"), beyond December 31, 2010. In accordance with the Agreement, in the event a Change in Control, as defined in the Agreement, occurs on or prior to December 31, 2010, the Agreement will continue in effect for a period of 24 months after such Change in Control.]
If you would like to participate in the new Executive Severance Plan you will be required to waive any coverage and all rights and benefits that may be available to you under your existing Change in Control Agreement[, and agree to the additional items set forth on Appendix A to this letter]. You will not be included as a participant in the Executive Severance Plan, either now or in the future, unless you waive such coverage and such other rights and benefits under the Agreement (as well as the [three (3) year] [any] notice period for canceling the Agreement) [and agree as set forth on Appendix A], at this time. If you so agree, please sign both copies of this letter indicating your agreement, while keeping one copy of this letter for yourself and returning the other signed copy to me. You must return a signed copy of the letter to me on or before August 12, 2010 in order to become eligible to participate in our new Executive Severance Plan. Your eligibility to participate in the Executive Severance Plan would commence as of August 12, 2010, at which time your Change in Control Agreement would also terminate. A signature transmitted by facsimile will be deemed an original signature (Fax ).
            
Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions.
Sincerely yours,
By signing below I agree to terminate my Change in Control Agreement and waive any coverage and all rights and benefits available to me under such Agreement, acknowledge and agree that no payments or benefits are vested, due or owed under my Change in Control Agreement [and further agree to the terms set forth on Appendix A to this letter]:
 

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibit A
It is the Policy of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") that BNY Mellon shall not, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, enter into or adopt a Future Severance Arrangement with a Senior Officer that provides for Additional Severance Benefits in an amount exceeding 2.99 times the sum of the Senior Officer's annual base salary and target bonus for the year of termination or, if greater, for the year before termination (the ""), unless such Future Severance Agreement is approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders of BNY Mellon at which a quorum is present. For this purpose, the amount of salary and target bonus shall be determined without regard to whether any such amount is currently payable or is deferred, and without regard to the form of payment (e.g., in cash, equity or other property). For purposes of determining the Severance Benefit Limitation above, in the event no target bonus has been established for a Senior Officer for either the year of termination or the year before termination, target bonus shall be determined based on the average annual bonus paid to a Senior Officer for the three most recent years before the year of termination.
Severance Benefits Limitation
For purposes of this Policy the following terms shall have the following meanings:
means (i) severance amounts that would be payable in cash to a Senior Officer, including payments in lieu of medical benefits and amounts paid for any tax gross-ups such as reimbursement of excise taxes in connection with the Internal Revenue Code Sections 280G and 4999, due to termination of employment, and (ii) special benefits or perquisites provided to a Senior Officer at the time of such Senior Officer's termination of employment, including the estimated value of future consulting fees and the present value of additional age and service credited for benefit accrual under any pension or retirement plan. The term "Additional Severance Benefits" includes both lump-sum payments and the estimated present value of any periodic payments made or special benefits or perquisites provided following the date of termination of such Senior Officer's employment.
"Additional Severance Benefits"
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Additional Severance Benefits" shall not include (a) the value of any accelerated vesting or delivery of any equity-based award or non-qualified deferred compensation amounts outstanding as of the date of termination, (b) compensation and benefits (including pension and retirement benefits) earned, accrued or otherwise provided for services rendered through the date of termination (other than any such compensation or benefits awarded at the time of and in connection with the Senior Officer's termination of employment), including any pro-rated annual incentive for the year of termination, (c) the value of any medical benefits provided upon or following termination of employment, (d) amounts paid for post-termination covenants (such as covenants not to compete or not to solicit employees or customers); (e) any
payment that the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon (the "Board") or a committee thereof determines in good faith to be a reasonable payment in settlement of any claim made or threatened against BNY Mellon; and (f) any payments (including reimbursement of expenses and legal fees) pursuant to any charter provision, contract, policy or other arrangement providing for indemnification.
means a compensatory plan, contract or arrangement between BNY Mellon (or one of its subsidiaries) and a Senior Officer or applicable to a Senior Officer or a severance plan, contract or arrangement between BNY Mellon (or one of its subsidiaries) and a Senior Officer or applicable to a Senior Officer related to the termination of employment with BNY Mellon (or one of its subsidiaries), in either case, entered into or made effective after the effective date of this Policy. "Future Severance Arrangement" includes any modification, renewal or extension of any such plan, contract or arrangement that is in effect as of the effective date of this Policy which materially increases Benefits. "Future Severance Arrangement" does not include any compensatory plan, contract or arrangement or any severance plan, contract or arrangement as to which BNY Mellon (or one of its subsidiaries) becomes a party or becomes obligated (including by operation of law) after the effective date of this Policy pursuant to or in connection with an acquisition or merger; , that any modification, renewal or extension of any such plan, contract or arrangement after the date of such acquisition or merger which materially increases Benefits shall be a "Future Severance Arrangement".
"Future Severance Arrangement"
provided
"" means a person who is an executive officer of BNY Mellon from time to time, including a person who becomes an executive officer at the time of execution or effectiveness of a Future Severance Agreement.
Senior Officer
The Board delegates to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board full authority to make determinations regarding the interpretation of the provisions of this Policy, in its sole discretion, including, without limitation, the determination of the value of any noncash items, as well as the present value of any cash or non-cash benefits payable over a period of time.
In the event that a Future Severance Arrangement does not require shareholder approval under this Policy at the time it is entered into or becomes effective, but the Benefits payable to a Senior Officer under such Future Severance Arrangement (as determined at the time of termination of employment) would exceed the Severance Benefits Limitation, BNY Mellon shall seek shareholder approval of the payment of that portion of the Benefits in excess of the Severance Benefits Limitation at the next annual or special meeting of shareholders and shall not pay such excess amount unless approved by shareholders. BNY Mellon shall have no obligation to call a special meeting of shareholders to vote on such matter.
The Board shall have the right to amend, waive or cancel this Policy at any time in its sole discretion. Any such action shall be promptly disclosed by BNY Mellon.
 


