FILE:BK/BK-8K-20100720065846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 20, 2010, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for second quarter 2010 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, /, shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com
 
(d) EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS SECOND QUARTER CONTINUING EPS OF $0.55 OR $668 MILLION VS. $0.23 OR $267 MILLION IN THE SECOND QUARTER OF 2009
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported second quarter income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $668 million, or $0.55 per common share, compared with $267 million, or $0.23 per common share, in the second quarter of 2009 and $601 million, or $0.49 per common share, in the first quarter of 2010.
NEW YORK, July 20, 2010 
"Our focus on winning new business and providing exceptional client service resulted in solid growth in securities servicing fees and continued long-term asset inflows for our asset and wealth management businesses. Our conservative risk profile is reflected in our excellent credit quality and strong capital generation," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"We continue to invest in our businesses. We just completed our Global Investment Servicing acquisition and expect to close on the acquisition of BHF's German asset servicing operation in August. In addition, we received regulatory approval for the opening of our asset management joint venture in Shanghai, expanded our asset management licensing in Korea, and announced our agreement to acquire a wealth management firm in Toronto," added Mr. Kelly.
 
1
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the second quarter of 2010 and are compared to the second quarter of 2009, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for detailed business segment information.
Second Quarter Results 
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
The decreased to $20 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared with $35 million in the first quarter of 2010. During the second quarter of 2010, the total allowance for credit losses increased $7 million and net charge-offs totaled $13 million.Nonperforming assets at June 30, 2010 totaled $406 million, a decrease of $53 million, or 12%, compared with March 31, 2010 primarily due to repayments.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
The was 30.2% in the second quarter of 2010.
effective tax rate
The was $114 million at June 30, 2010 compared with an unrealized net of tax loss of $191 million at March 31, 2010. The improvement in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was due to tightening credit spreads and a decline in interest rates.
unrealized net of tax gain on our investment securities portfolio
 
 
3
 On July 20, 2010, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.09 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Aug. 10, 2010 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on July 30, 2010.
Declaration of quarterly dividend
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $21.8 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.0 trillion in assets under management, services $11.6 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.5 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental financial trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through June 30, 2010 and are available at (Investor RelationsFinancial Reports).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on July 20, 2010. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (210) 838-9221 (International) Passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and supplemental Financial Trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on July 20, 2010. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning July 20, 2010 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Tuesday, Aug. 3, 2010 by dialing (866) 360-7726 (U.S.) or (203) 369-0178 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
Nonperforming assets
 
Nonperforming assets decreased $53 million compared with March 31, 2010. The decrease primarily resulted from repayments by financial institutions, partially offset by the addition of other residential mortgages.
Discontinued operations
On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold Mellon United National Bank ("MUNB"), its national bank subsidiary located in Florida. We have applied discontinued operations accounting to this business. The income statements for all periods in this Earnings Release are presented on a continuing operations basis. This business, which was previously reported in the Other segment, no longer fit our strategic focus on our asset management and securities servicing businesses. In the second quarter of 2010, we recorded an after-tax loss on discontinued operations of $10 million primarily reflecting lower of cost or market write-downs on the retained loans held for sale.
Consolidated net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations
Net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, totaled $658 million, or $0.54 per common share, in the second quarter of 2010 compared with $176 million, or $0.15 per common share, in the second quarter of 2009 and $559 million, or $0.46 per common share, in the first quarter of 2010.
Regulatory Reform
In July 2010, Congress enacted regulatory reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which the President is expected to sign into law on July 21, 2010. This new law broadly affects the financial services industry by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a resolution authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and containing numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. Many aspects of the law are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact to BNY Mellon or across the industry.
 
9
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible total assets of operations is a measure of capital strength that provides additional useful information to investors supplementing the Tier 1 capital ratio which is utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net securities gains (losses) and noncontrolling interests related to consolidated asset management funds and expense measures which exclude special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010, restructuring charges, M&I expenses, the FDIC special assessment and intangible amortization expenses; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as benefit of tax settlement. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude some or all of these items are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where valuation or other accounting/regulatory requirements require charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses primarily relate to the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction, and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Asset and Wealth Management and Institutional Services. The management of these sectors is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. The presentation of financial measures excluding special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010 provides investors with the ability to view performance metrics on the basis that management views results. The presentation of income of consolidated asset management funds, net of noncontrolling interests related to the consolidation of certain asset management funds, permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with prior periods. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses. Restructuring charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions. Excluding the benefit of tax settlements permits investors to calculate the tax impact of BNY Mellon's primary businesses.
In this Earnings Release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
 
10
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business segment basis.
 
 
 
 
 
N/A  Not applicable,
 
11
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
12
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, expectations with respect to the economic outlook, reinvestment in our businesses, intended acquisitions and joint ventures, including the expected impact on earnings and the timing of anticipated closing, and our preliminary assessment of the impact of regulatory reform legislation. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this earnings release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009 and BNY Mellon's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this earnings release speak only as of July 20, 2010 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
13


