FILE:BK/BK-8K-20111019070139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On October 19, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for third quarter 2011 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS OF $651 MILLION OR $0.53 PER SHARE
VERSUS THIRD QUARTER 2010:
 
 
NET LONG-TERM INFLOWS OF $4 BILLION IN ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT IN 3Q11
GENERATED $718 MILLION OF TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY IN 3Q11
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported third quarter net income applicable to common shareholders of $651 million, or $0.53 per common share, compared with $622 million, or $0.51 per common share, in the third quarter of 2010 and $735 million, or $0.59 per common share, in the second quarter of 2011.
NEW YORK, October 19, 2011 
"Year-over-year, we achieved revenue and earnings growth as we benefited from new business wins, net long-term asset flows and increased deposits," said Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon. "We also delivered positive operating leverage despite higher legal and severance costs, and generated a 22 percent return on tangible common equity for the quarter." "In a challenging environment, our employees are doing an outstanding job providing our clients with the highest levels of service, winning new business, maximizing efficiency, and mitigating risk. We will continue to invest in our businesses to support our clients and the communities we serve while keeping a sharp focus on near-term earnings performance," added Mr. Hassell.
 
 
 
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the third quarter of 2011 and are compared to the third quarter of 2010, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for a detailed review of our businesses.
Third Quarter Results -
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The was a credit of $22 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared with a credit of $22 million in the third quarter of 2010 and no provision in the second quarter of 2011. The credit in the provision in the third quarter of 2011 primarily resulted from an improvement in the loan portfolio and a decline in criticized assets both year-over-year and sequentially.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
 
The was 29.7% in the third quarter of 2011, compared with 26.4% on a continuing operations basis in the third quarter of 2010, and 26.9% in the second quarter of 2011. Adjusted for the impact of the consolidated investment management funds, the effective tax rate on an operating basis (Non-GAAP) was 29.0% in the third quarter of 2011, compared with 28.2% in the third quarter of 2010 and 30.0% in the second quarter of 2011. See the Supplemental information section beginning on page 9.
effective tax rate
The was $461 million at Sept. 30, 2011 compared with $408 million at June 30, 2011. The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by a decline in interest rates.
unrealized net of tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
We generated $718 million of Basel I Tier 1 common equity in the third quarter of 2011, primarily driven by earnings retention.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 6.6% at Sept. 30, 2011, unchanged from June 30, 2011. The ratio was impacted by increased share repurchases due in part to market conditions during the third quarter of 2011 and higher risk-weighted assets primarily driven by balance sheet growth.
 On Oct. 19, 2011, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.13 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Nov. 9, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Oct. 31, 2011.
Quarterly dividend
 
 
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $25.9 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.2 trillion in assets under management, services $11.9 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.6 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available at and through Twitter@bnymellon.
www.bnymellon.com
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through Sept. 30, 2011 and are available at www.bnymellon.com (Investor Relations  Financial Reports).
Conference Call Data
Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer and Thomas P. Gibbons, vice chairman and chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on Oct. 19, 2011. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information.
Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (773) 799-3611 (international), and using the passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on Oct. 19, 2011. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning Oct. 19, 2011 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Wednesday, Nov. 2, 2011 by dialing (866) 479-2460 (U.S.) or (203) 369-1535 (international). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets and the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets of operations are measures of capital strength that provide additional useful information to investors, supplementing the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios which are utilized by regulatory authorities. The ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets excludes trust preferred securities, which will be eliminated as Tier 1 regulatory capital beginning in 2013. Unlike the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon, which will be eliminated as Tier 1 regulatory capital beginning in 2013. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income. BNY Mellon has presented its estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio on a basis that is representative of how it currently understands the Basel III rules. Management views the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio as a key measure in monitoring BNY Mellon's capital position. Additionally, the presentation of the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio permits investors the ability to compare BNY Mellon's Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio with estimates presented by other companies.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net securities gains (losses); and expense measures which exclude special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010, restructuring charges, M&I expenses and amortization of intangible assets expenses. Operating margin measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented. Operating margin measures also exclude noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment management funds. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where we have incurred charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses primarily relate to the acquisitions of Global Investment Servicing on July 1, 2010 and BHF Asset Servicing GmbH on Aug. 2, 2010 and the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Investment Management and Investment Services. The management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is managed within the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. The presentation of financial measures excluding special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010 provides investors the ability to view performance metrics on the basis that management views results. The presentation of income of consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interest related to the consolidation of certain investment management funds, permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with how management views the business. Restructuring charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions. Excluding these charges permits investors to view expenses on a basis consistent with how management views the business. BNY
 
Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, give investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.
In this Earnings Release, net interest margin is presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the calculation of our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio.
 
 
 
The following table presents investment management fee revenue excluding performance fees.
 
The following table presents income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests.
 
 
Income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements made regarding our intention to invest in our businesses to support our clients and the communities we serve while keeping a sharp focus on near-term earnings performance. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, include the use of future or present tense language. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of BNY Mellon which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of Oct. 19, 2011 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


