FILE:BK/BK-8K-20110125142742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 19, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for full year 2010 and fourth quarter 2010. The Registrant previously furnished the press release as Exhibit 99.1 to a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated January 19, 2011, pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K. A version of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. However, the references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K. The information included herein is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated by reference into all filings made by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which state that this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated therein by reference.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

E 99.1
XHIBIT
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER CONTINUING EPS OF $0.55 INCLUDING $0.04 OF M&I AND RESTRUCTURING EXPENSES
 
 
 
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported fourth quarter income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $690 million, or $0.55 per common share, compared with $712 million, or $0.59 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2009 and $625 million, or $0.51 per common share, in the third quarter of 2010.
NEW YORK, Jan. 19, 2011 
Net income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders totaled $2.584 billion, or $2.11 per common share, for the full-year 2010 compared to a net loss of $1.097 billion, or $0.93 per common share, for the full-year 2009. Net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, for the full-year 2010 totaled $2.518 billion, or $2.05 per common share, compared to a net loss of $1.367 billion, or $1.16 per common share, for the full-year 2009.
 
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the fourth quarter of 2010 and are compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for a detailed review of our businesses.
Fourth Quarter Results -
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The was a credit of $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with a charge of $65 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 and a credit of $22 million in the third quarter of 2010. The credit in the provision in the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily reflects the repayment of a loan to an asset manager that had previously filed for bankruptcy. The decrease in the provision compared with the fourth quarter of 2009 reflects a reduction in criticized assets. Criticized assets decreased 32% in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 66% in the full-year 2010.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
 
The on a continuing operations basis was 27.3% in the fourth quarter of 2010, 26.4% in the third quarter of 2010 and 28.3% in full-year 2010.
effective tax rate
The was $150 million at Dec. 31, 2010 compared with $311 million at Sept. 30, 2010. The decline in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by higher interest rates.
unrealized net of tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio
 
 
The increase in the capital ratios sequentially primarily resulted from earnings retention and lower risk-weighted assets. The increase from Dec. 31, 2009 primarily reflects earnings retention, the third quarter 2010 common equity issuance of $677 million and lower risk-weighted assets, partially offset by the impact of the Acquisitions.
 On Jan. 19, 2011, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.09 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Feb. 9, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Jan. 31, 2011.
Declaration of quarterly dividend
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $25.0 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.17 trillion in assets under management, services $12.0 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.6 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
 
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Discontinued operations
On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold Mellon United National Bank ("MUNB"), a national bank subsidiary located in Florida. We have applied discontinued operations accounting to this business. The income statements for all periods in this Earnings Release are presented on a continuing operations basis. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded an after-tax loss on discontinued operations of $11 million, primarily reflecting lower of cost or market write-downs on the retained MUNB loans held for sale.
Consolidated net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations
Net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, totaled $679 million, or $0.54 per common share in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared with $593 million, or $0.49 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2009 and net income of $622 million, or $0.51 per common share, in the third quarter of 2010.
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets of operations is a measure of capital strength that provides additional useful information to investors, supplementing the Tier 1 capital ratio which is utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net securities gains (losses) and noncontrolling interests related to consolidated asset management funds; and expense measures which exclude special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010, the FDIC special assessment, restructuring charges, M&I expenses and amortization of intangible assets expenses; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as benefit of tax settlements. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude some or all of these items are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where valuation or other accounting/regulatory requirements require charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses primarily relate to the Acquisitions which were consummated in the third quarter of 2010 and the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction, and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Asset and Wealth Management and Institutional Services. The management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY
 
Mellon's investment securities portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is managed within the Other group of businesses. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. With regards to higher yields related to the restructured investment securities portfolio, client deposits serve as the primary funding source for our investment securities portfolio and we typically allocate all interest revenue to the businesses generating the deposits. Accordingly, the higher yield related to the restructured investment securities portfolio has been included in the results of our businesses. Restructuring charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions.
Excluding the benefit of tax settlements permits investors to calculate the tax impact of BNY Mellon's primary businesses. The presentation of financial measures excluding special litigation reserves in the first quarter of 2010 provides investors with the ability to view performance metrics on the basis that management views results. The presentation of income of consolidated asset management funds, net of noncontrolling interests related to the consolidation of certain asset management funds, permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with prior periods. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.
In this Earnings Release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.
 
 
N/A  Not applicable.
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
N/A  Not applicable.
N/M  Not meaningful.
 
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements on expectations with respect to settlement with the Internal Revenue Service. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things, our ability to meet the proposed new capital standards. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this earnings release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, BNY Mellon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of Jan. 19, 2011 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


