FILE:BK/BK-8K-20110419065041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On April 19, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for first quarter 2011 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS OF $625 MILLION OR $0.50 PER SHARE
VERSUS FIRST QUARTER 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported first quarter net income applicable to common shareholders of $625 million, or $0.50 per common share, compared with net income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders of $601 million, or $0.49 per common share, in the first quarter of 2010 and $690 million, or $0.55 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2010.
NEW YORK, April 19, 2011 
"Over the past year, unlike many, we continued to grow revenue and earnings despite the challenging environment, and did so with a clean balance sheet. Sequentially, revenue was lower due to seasonality, as were expenses despite higher litigation costs," said Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"A fundamental strength of our business model is the ability to rapidly grow capital and generate a high return on it. Specifically, in the first quarter of 2011, our capital grew at an annualized rate of 28 percent and we generated a 21 percent return on it. Over time this provides us with superior flexibility to invest in our businesses and return capital to our shareholders," added Mr. Kelly.
 
 
Note:    See supplemental information beginning on page 9 for the calculation of the Tier 1 common ratio and return on Tier 1 common.
 
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the first quarter of 2011 and are compared to the first quarter of 2010, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for a detailed review of our businesses.
First Quarter Results -
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no in the first quarter of 2011, compared with a charge of $35 million in the first quarter of 2010 and a credit of $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
The was 29.3% in the first quarter of 2011, and on a continuing operations basis, was 29.1% in the first quarter of 2010 and 27.3% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
effective tax rate
The was $279 million at March 31, 2011 compared with $150 million at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by narrowing credit spreads on non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities ("RMBS").
unrealized net of tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio
 
We continued our strong capital generation in 1Q11. Our Tier 1 common equity increased $798 million, or 7%, compared with Dec. 31, 2010, primarily driven by earnings retention.
 On March 22, 2011, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation announced a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.13 per common share, an increase of 44% from the prior period. This cash dividend is payable on May 10, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 29, 2011.
Quarterly dividend
 
Organization of our businesses
In the first quarter of 2011, BNY Mellon realigned its internal reporting structure and business presentation to focus on its two principal businesses, Investment Management and Investment Services. The realignment reflects management's current approach to assessing performance and decisions regarding resource allocations. Investment Management includes the former Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses. Investment Services includes the former Asset Servicing, Issuer Services and Clearing Services businesses as well as the Cash Management business previously included in the Treasury Services business. The credit-related activities previously included in the Treasury Services business, are now included in the Other segment. Accordingly, the income statement has been changed to reflect this realignment. The following are the changes to the income statement:
 
 
All prior periods have been reclassified. The reclassifications did not affect the results of operations. See the Earnings Review for additional information on our businesses.
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $25.5 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.2 trillion in assets under management, services $11.9 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.7 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through March 31, 2011 and are available at (Investor Relations - Financial Reports).
www.bnymellon.com
Conference Call Data
Robert P. Kelly, chairman and chief executive officer; Gerald L. Hassell, president; and Thomas P. Gibbons, vice chairman and chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on April 19, 2011. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information. Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (773) 799-3611 (International), and using the passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to . The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends, will be available at beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on April 19, 2011. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning April 19, 2011 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Tuesday, May 3, 2011 by dialing (866) 479-2460 (U.S.) or (203) 369-1535 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at for the same time period.
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
www.bnymellon.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Consolidated net income applicable to common shareholders
Net income applicable to common shareholders totaled $625 million, or $0.50 per common share, in the first quarter of 2011, compared with net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, of $679 million, or $0.54 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $559 million, or $0.46 per common share, in the first quarter of 2010.
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets of operations is a measure of capital strength that provides additional useful information to investors, supplementing the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios which are utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net securities gains; and expense measures which exclude special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010, restructuring charges, M&I expenses and amortization of intangible assets expenses. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented. Operating margin measures also exclude noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment management funds. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where we have incurred charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses primarily relate to the Acquisitions which were consummated in the third quarter of 2010 and the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction, and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains, BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Investment Management and Investment Services. The management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is managed within the Other group of businesses. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. The presentation of financial measures excluding special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010 provides investors the ability to view performance metrics on the basis that management views results. The presentation of income of consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interest related to the consolidation of certain asset management funds permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with prior periods. Restructuring charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions. Excluding these charges permits investors to view expenses on a basis consistent
 
with prior periods. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.
In this Earnings Release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) On a regulatory basis using Tier 1 capital as determined under Basel I guidelines.
(b) Preliminary.
 
(a) Annualized.
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements on our ability to grow and generate a high rate of return on capital and our flexibility in our businesses. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, include the use of future or present tense language. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of April 19, 2011 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


