FILE:BK/BK-8K-20110721092217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for second quarter 2011 for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. The Registrant previously furnished the press release as Exhibit 99.1 to a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 19, 2011, pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
A version of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. However, the references in the press release to the Registrant's website, http://www.bnymellon.com/, shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K. The information included herein is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is incorporated by reference into all filings made by the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which state that this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated therein by reference.
 
Our Liquidity and Credit Ratings
Our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, is partially dependent on our credit ratings. On June 2, 2011, Moody's Investors Service announced that the rating outlook on the deposit, senior debt, and senior subordinated debt ratings of the Registrant has been changed to negative from stable, due to Moody's reassessment of its systemic support assumptions and the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act thereon. On July 18, 2011, Moody's announced that it placed the supported ratings of the Registrant and another bank and their subsidiaries under review for possible downgrade. The July 18 announcement stated that the action was directly related to Moody's placing the U.S. government's Aaa rating on review for possible downgrade on July 13, 2011 and that the action does not reflect a change to Moody's opinion of the Registrant's standalone financial strength. Copies of Moody's announcements described in this paragraph can be obtained from its website at http://www.moodys.com. However, the reference to Moody's website in the immediately preceding sentence shall not be deemed to incorporate the contents of the website into this Form 8-K.
Entry into a Definitive Agreement
On July 20, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release announcing the execution of a definitive agreement to sell a majority of its equity stake in ConvergEx Group to funds advised by CVC Capital Partners in an all cash transaction expected to close in the early fall. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS OF $735 MILLION OR $0.59 PER SHARE
VERSUS SECOND QUARTER 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERATED $803 MILLION OF TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY IN 2Q11
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported second quarter net income applicable to common shareholders of $735 million, or $0.59 per common share, compared with net income applicable to common shareholders of $658 million, or $0.54 per common share, in the second quarter of 2010 and net income applicable to common shareholders of $625 million, or $0.50 per common share, in the first quarter of 2011.
NEW YORK, July 19, 2011 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the second quarter of 2011 and are compared to the second quarter of 2010, all information is reported on a continuing operations basis and sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for a detailed review of our businesses.
Second Quarter Results -
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no losses in the second quarter of 2011 compared with a charge of $20 million in the second quarter of 2010 and no provision in the first quarter of 2011.
provision for credit
Total noninterest expense
 
 
 
The was 26.9% in the second quarter of 2011, compared with 30.2% on a continuing operations basis in the second quarter of 2010, and 29.3% in the first quarter of 2011. The lower tax rate in the second quarter of 2011 was due primarily to the impact of the consolidated investment management funds. Adjusted for the impact of the consolidated investment management funds, the effective tax rate on an operating basis (non-GAAP) was 30.0% in the second quarter of 2011, compared with 30.8% in the second quarter of 2010 and 30.2% in the first quarter of 2011. See the Supplemental information section beginning on page 9.
effective tax rate
The was $408 million at June 30, 2011 compared with $279 million at March 31, 2011. The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by a decline in interest rates.
unrealized net of tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio
 
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
We generated $803 million of Basel I Tier 1 common equity in the second quarter of 2011, primarily driven by earnings retention.
In the second quarter of 2011, we increased our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio by approximately 45 basis points, reflecting our strong capital generation and improving risk-weighted assets mix. Given the strength of our balance sheet and ability to rapidly grow capital, we do not anticipate accelerating our timeline to meet the proposed Basel III capital guidelines.
 On July 19, 2011, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.13 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Aug. 9, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on July 29, 2011.
Quarterly dividend
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $26.3 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.3 trillion in assets under management, services $11.8 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.7 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available at .
www.bnymellon.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Consolidated net income applicable to common shareholders
Net income applicable to common shareholders totaled $735 million, or $0.59 per diluted common share, in the second quarter of 2011 compared with $625 million, or $0.50 per diluted common share, in the first quarter of 2011 and net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, of $658 million, or $0.54 per diluted common share, in the second quarter of 2010.
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets of operations is a measure of capital strength that provides additional useful information to investors, supplementing the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios which are utilized by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon's common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes trust preferred securities issued by BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income. BNY Mellon has presented its estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio on a basis that is representative of how it currently understands the Basel III rules. Management views the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio as a key measure in monitoring BNY Mellon's capital position. Additionally, the presentation of the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio permits investors the ability to compare BNY Mellon's Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio with estimates presented by other companies.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net securities gains; and expense measures which exclude special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010, restructuring charges, M&I expenses and amortization of intangible assets expenses. Operating margin measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented. Operating margin measures also exclude noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment management funds. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where we have incurred charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses primarily relate to the Acquisitions in 2010 and the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains, BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Investment Management and Investment Services. The management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is managed within the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. The presentation of financial measures excluding special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010 provides investors the ability to view performance metrics on the basis that management views results. The presentation of income of consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interest related to the consolidation of certain investment management funds, permits
 
investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with how management views the business. Restructuring charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions. Excluding these charges permits investors to view expenses on a basis consistent with how management views the business. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, give investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.
In this Earnings Release, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.
 
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents investment management fee revenue excluding performance fees.
 
The following table presents income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests.
 
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements made regarding the reduction of expenses and our estimate of our Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio, as well as our plans to meet proposed Basel III capital guidelines. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, include the use of future or present tense language. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of BNY Mellon which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of July 19, 2011 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
NEW YORK, July 20, 2011  BNY Mellon, the global leader in investment management and investment services, has agreed to sell a majority of its equity stake in ConvergEx Group as part of a definitive agreement for ConvergEx Group to be acquired by funds advised by CVC Capital Partners, a leading global private equity firm, in an all cash transaction expected to close in the early fall.
BNY Mellon agreed to sell the majority of its holding in ConvergEx Group while remaining a minority shareholder. Upon closing, the transaction is expected to enhance BNY Mellon's capital position, adding approximately 15 basis points to the company's Basel III Tier1 Common Equity.
"This transaction will provide a meaningful boost to our strong capital position and enable us to benefit from the ongoing growth of ConvergEx Group as one of the leaders in providing software and technology solutions to asset managers and financial intermediaries globally," said Thomas P. Gibbons, vice chairman and chief financial officer of BNY Mellon. "We look forward to working with CVC and management to support ConvergEx as it enters its next phase of growth."
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $26.3 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.3 trillion in assets under management, services $11.8 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.7 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE: BK). Additional information is available at and through Twitter @bnymellon.
www.bnymellon.com
This press release contains statements relating to future results of BNY Mellon that are considered "forward-looking statements," which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language and relate to, among other things, aspects of the transaction including the enhancement of BNY Mellon's capital ratios, the generation of capital, the anticipated closing date and other implications of the announced transaction. These forward-looking statements are based on current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). For additional information with respect to risks and other factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this press release speak only as of July 20, 2011, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


