FILE:BK/BK-8K-20120418065359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 18, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for first quarter 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains information which may be considered to constitute "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K. The Registrant's management believes that these measures are useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of ongoing operations. Management believes that they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which management monitors financial performance. Management also believes this presentation allows investors to more appropriately evaluate the impact of revenues from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS OF $619 MILLION OR $0.52 PER SHARE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported first quarter net income applicable to common shareholders of $619 million, or $0.52 per common share, compared with $625 million, or $0.50 per common share, in the first quarter of 2011 and $505 million, or $0.42 per common share, in the fourth quarter of 2011.
NEW YORK, April 18, 2012 
"We enjoyed solid sequential growth in investment management and services fees, as we benefited from new business wins and improved equity values. We are seeing the early results of our operational excellence initiatives as we generated significant positive operating leverage relative to the fourth quarter," said Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"We are pleased with our performance on the recent regulatory stress test. The results reflect the strength of our business model, the excellent quality of our balance sheet and our continuing ability to return capital to our shareholders while maintaining a very strong capital position," added Mr. Hassell.
 
Note: See "Supplemental information" on pages 9 through 12 for the calculation of the Non-GAAP measures of the return on tangible common equity and the estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio.
 
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the first quarter of 2012 and are compared to the first quarter of 2011. Sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for a detailed review of our businesses. Unless otherwise noted, the results for 2011 include the impact of Shareowner Services.
First Quarter Results 
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The year-over-year decrease in the net interest margin (FTE) was primarily driven by increased client deposits nearly half of which were invested in liquid, lower-yielding assets. The sequential increase in the net interest margin (FTE) reflects increased investments in high quality investment securities and a decrease in lower yielding interest-bearing deposits with banks.
The was $5 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared with $23 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and no provision in the first quarter of 2011.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
 
 
The was 28.7% in the first quarter of 2012, compared with 29.3% in the first quarter of 2011 and 30.6% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
effective tax rate
The was $1.2 billion at March 31, 2012 compared with $793 million at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by higher asset-backed securities prices.
unrealized pre-tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio
 
 
We generated $680 million of gross Basel I Tier 1 common equity in the first quarter of 2012.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio  Non-GAAP was 7.6% at March 31, 2012 compared with 7.1% at Dec. 31, 2011 and 6.1% at March 31, 2011. The sequential improvement in the ratio was driven by an increase in the value of our investment securities portfolio, earnings retention and lower risk-weighted assets, partially offset by share repurchases.
 On April 18, 2012, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.13 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on May 8, 2012 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 30, 2012.
Quarterly dividend
 
 
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $26.6 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.3 trillion in assets under management, services $11.9 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.4 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available on www.bnymellon.com or follow us on Twitter@BNYMellon.
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through March 31, 2012 and are available at www.bnymellon.com (Investor Relations  Financial Reports).
Conference Call Data
Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer and Thomas P. Gibbons, vice chairman and chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on April 18, 2012. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information.
Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (773) 799-3611 (international), and using the passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to www.bnymellon.com. The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends, will be available at www.bnymellon.com beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on April 18, 2012. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning April 18, 2012 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Wednesday, May 2, 2012 by dialing (888) 554-3823 (U.S.) or (203) 369-3738 (international). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at www.bnymellon.com for the same time period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this Earnings Release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets and the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets of operations are measures of capital strength that provide additional useful information to investors, supplementing the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios which are utilized by regulatory authorities. The ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets excludes trust preferred securities, which will be phased out of Tier 1 regulatory capital beginning in 2013. Unlike the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income. BNY Mellon has presented its estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio on a basis that is representative of how it currently understands the Basel III rules. Management views the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio as a key measure in monitoring BNY Mellon's capital position. Additionally, the presentation of the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio allows investors to compare BNY Mellon's Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio with estimates presented by other companies.
BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net securities gains (losses) and noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment management funds; and expense measures which exclude restructuring charges, M&I expenses and amortization of intangible assets. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where we have incurred charges unrelated to operational initiatives. M&I expenses primarily relate to the acquisitions of Global Investment Servicing on July 1, 2010 and BHF Asset Servicing GmbH on Aug. 2, 2010. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared with our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon's primary businesses are Investment Management and Investment Services. The management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon's investment securities portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is managed within the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon's processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. Restructuring charges relate to our operational excellence initiatives and migrating positions to global growth centers. Excluding these charges permits investors to view expense on a basis consistent with how management views the business.
In this Earnings Release, the net interest margin is presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.
 
 
N/A  Not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the calculation of our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio on a fully-phased in basis.
 
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements made regarding our operational excellence initiatives and our ability to return capital to shareholders. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, include the use of future or present tense language. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of BNY Mellon which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of April 18, 2012 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


