FILE:BK/BK-8K-20120718063909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 18, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for second quarter 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains information which may be considered to constitute "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K. The Registrant's management believes that these measures are useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of ongoing operations. Management believes that they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which management monitors financial performance. Management also believes this presentation allows investors to more appropriately evaluate the impact of revenues from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS OF $466 MILLION OR $0.39 PER COMMON SHARE
 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE FEES +7% AND INVESTMENT SERVICES FEES +2%, SEQUENTIALLY
NET LONG-TERM INFLOWS IN ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT OF $26 BILLION IN 2Q12
RECORD LEVEL OF ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY/ADMINISTRATION OF $27.1 TRILLION, +2% SEQUENTIALLY
RETURN ON TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY 15.7%
REPURCHASED 12.2 MILLION COMMON SHARES FOR $286 MILLION IN 2Q12
ESTIMATED BASEL III TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY RATIO 8.7%
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported second quarter net income applicable to common shareholders of $466 million, or $0.39 per common share including the previously announced litigation charge of $212 million (after-tax) or $0.18 per common share, compared with $735 million, or $0.59 per common share, in the second quarter of 2011 and $619 million, or $0.52 per common share, in the first quarter of 2012.
NEW YORK, July 18, 2012 
"We continue to grow investment management and investment services fees reflecting the strength of our business model. We are delivering on our operational excellence initiatives, investing for future growth and positioning our businesses to deliver the full breadth of our global capabilities. Our strengthened capital positions us as a preferred counterparty, and provides us greater flexibility for ongoing investment while continuing to return capital to shareholders," said Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"Also in the second quarter, we were able to put significant litigation behind us with no material impact on our capital," added Mr. Hassell.
 
 
Unless otherwise noted, all comments begin with the results of the second quarter of 2012 and are compared to the second quarter of 2011. Sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for a detailed review of our businesses. Unless otherwise noted, the results for all periods in 2011 include the impact of Shareowner Services.
Second Quarter Results 
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The year-over-year decrease in the net interest margin (FTE) was primarily driven by increased client deposits which were invested in lower-yielding assets reflecting the current market environment. The sequential decrease in the net interest margin (FTE) reflects the impact of narrower spreads and lower accretion.
The was a credit of $19 million in the second quarter of 2012 primarily resulting from a decline in the expected loss related to a broker-dealer customer that previously filed for bankruptcy, as well as improvements in the mortgage portfolio. There was no provision in the second quarter of 2011 and a provision of $5 million in the first quarter of 2012.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
 
The was 15.8% in the second quarter of 2012 and includes a reduction in the tax rate of approximately 9% related to the litigation charge. The operating tax rate  Non-GAAP in the second quarter of 2012 was 26.1% and includes an increased benefit of certain tax credits. The effective tax rate was 26.9% in the second quarter of 2011 and 28.7% in the first quarter of 2012. See "Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures" beginning on page 11 for additional information.
effective tax rate
The was $1.4 billion at June 30, 2012 compared with $1.2 billion at March 31, 2012. The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio primarily reflects a decline in market interest rates.
unrealized pre-tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio
 
We generated $527 million of gross Basel I Tier 1 common equity in the second quarter of 2012.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 8.7% at June 30, 2012 based on the NPRs and final market risk rule. The increase in the ratio from 7.6% at March 31, 2012, which was calculated under prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule, was primarily due to the reduction in risk-weighted assets related to the treatment of sub-investment grade securities. This benefit was partially offset by the treatment of investment grade securitizations and financial institution exposure, as well as balance sheet growth in the second quarter.
 On July 18, 2012, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.13 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Aug. 7, 2012 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on July 30, 2012. On July 18, 2012, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation also declared a dividend for the period from June 20, 2012 through Sept. 19, 2012 of $1,000 per share on the Series A Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (liquidation preference of $100,000 per share) ("the Series A Preferred Stock"), payable on Sept. 20, 2012. All of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are owned by Mellon Capital IV, which will pass through the Sept. 20, 2012 dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock to the holders of record as of the close of business on Sept. 5, 2012 of its Normal Preferred Capital Securities.
Dividends
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $27.1 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.3 trillion in assets under management, services $11.5 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.4 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available on www.bnymellon.com or follow us on Twitter@BNYMellon.
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through June 30, 2012 and are available at www.bnymellon.com (Investor Relations  Financial Reports).
 
Conference Call Data
Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer and Thomas P. Gibbons, vice chairman and chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on July 18, 2012. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information.
Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (773) 799-3611 (International), and using the passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to www.bnymellon.com. The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends, will be available at www.bnymellon.com beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on July 18, 2012. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning July 18, 2012 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Wednesday, Aug. 1, 2012 by dialing (866) 376-2451 (U.S.) or (203) 369- 0301 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at www.bnymellon.com for the same time period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Capital
The following table presents our Basel I Tier 1 common equity generated.
 
The following table presents the calculation of our Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio.
 
The following table presents the calculation of our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio on a fully-phased in basis.
 
 
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this Earnings Release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income. The tangible common shareholders' equity ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding.
BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of and noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment management funds and other revenue related to the Shareowner Services business, which was sold on Dec. 31, 2011; and expense measures which exclude M&I expenses, litigation charges, restructuring charges, amortization of intangible assets and direct expenses related to the Shareowner Services business. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions or where we have incurred charges. M&I expenses primarily relate to the acquisitions of Global Investment Servicing on July 1, 2010 and BHF Asset Servicing GmbH on Aug. 2, 2010. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased. Future periods will not reflect such M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared with our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. Litigation charges represent accruals for loss contingencies that are both probable and reasonably estimable, but exclude standard business-related legal fees. Restructuring charges relate to our operational excellence initiatives and migrating positions to global delivery centers. Excluding these charges permits investors to view expense on a basis consistent with how management views the business. BNY Mellon also presents revenue and noninterest expense results relating to the Shareowner Services business so that an investor may compare those results with other periods, which do not include the Shareowner Services business.
In this Earnings Release, the net interest margin is presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the tax rate from an effective rate to an operating rate for the second quarter of 2012.
 
 
The following table presents investment management fees net of performance fees.
 
The following table presents the calculation of the return on common equity and the return on tangible common equity.
 
 
The following table presents the calculation of the equity to assets ratio and book value per common share.
 
The following table presents the calculation of the pre-tax operating margin ratio.
 
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements made regarding our estimated capital ratios and our ability to continue to grow investment management and investment services fees, grow in the future, deliver the full breadth of our global capabilities, provide flexibility for ongoing investment and return capital to shareholders. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, include the use of future or present tense language. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of BNY Mellon which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of July 18, 2012 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


