FILE:BK/BK-8K-20121017065124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On October 17, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release announcing results of operations for third quarter 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933. The references in the press release to the Registrant's website, , shall not be deemed to include the contents of the website in the press release or in this Form 8-K.
http://www.bnymellon.com/
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains information which may be considered to constitute "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K. The Registrant's management believes that these measures are useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of ongoing operations. Management believes that they facilitate comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which management monitors financial performance. Management also believes this presentation allows investors to more appropriately evaluate the impact of revenues from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
BNY MELLON REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS OF $720 MILLION OR $0.61 PER COMMON SHARE
 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES UP 7% YEAR-OVER-YEAR
RECORD LEVEL OF ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT OF $1.4 TRILLION, UP 13% YEAR-OVER-YEAR, UP 5% SEQUENTIALLY
NET LONG-TERM INFLOWS OF $58 BILLION OVER LAST 12 MONTHS, $9 BILLION IN 3Q12
RECORD LEVEL OF ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY/ADMINISTRATION OF $27.9 TRILLION, UP 8% YEAR-OVER-YEAR, UP 3% SEQUENTIALLY
NONINTEREST EXPENSE DECLINED 2% YEAR-OVER-YEAR
ESTIMATED BASEL III TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY RATIO 9.3%
(a)
RETURN ON TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY 22%
(a)
REPURCHASED OVER 13 MILLION COMMON SHARES FOR $288 MILLION IN 3Q12
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ("BNY Mellon") (NYSE:BK) today reported third quarter net income applicable to common shareholders of $720 million, or $0.61 per common share, compared with $651 million, or $0.53 per common share, in the third quarter of 2011 and $466 million, or $0.39 per common share, in the second quarter of 2012.
NEW YORK, October 17, 2012 
"We are pleased to report solid earnings growth this quarter, led by the strength of Investment Management, which recorded its twelfth consecutive quarter of long-term inflows. New business trends for Asset Servicing were also strong, as we recorded the best quarter in new AUC wins since 2008, a testament to the breadth and quality of our capabilities. We remain focused on reducing expense growth through our operational excellence initiatives. During the quarter we completed the client integration for our BHF Asset Servicing acquisition in Germany, an example of our progress in integrating systems and retiring legacy platforms," said Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer of BNY Mellon.
"We generated a 22 percent return on tangible equity, continued to return capital to shareholders and improved our capital position, with Basel III Tier I common equity ratio rising to above 9 percent at quarter end, all very positive signs of our business model's strength," added Mr. Hassell.
 
 
Sequential growth rates are unannualized. Please refer to the Quarterly Earnings Review for a detailed review of our businesses. Unless otherwise noted, the results for all periods in 2011 include the impact of Shareowner Services.
Third Quarter Results 
Total revenue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The decreases in net interest margin (FTE) compared with both prior periods primarily reflect lower reinvestment yields, the elimination of interest on European Central Bank deposits, lower accretion and growth in customer deposits.
The was a credit of $5 million in the third quarter of 2012 primarily resulting from loan sales and repayments. The provision for credit losses was a credit of $22 million in the third quarter of 2011 and a credit of $19 million in the second quarter of 2012.
provision for credit losses
Total noninterest expense
 
 
The was 23.1% in the third quarter of 2012, which primarily reflects the benefit from completing various tax audits. Earnings per common share in the third quarter of 2012 benefited $0.04 as a result of the lower than expected effective tax rate.
effective tax rate
The was $2.5 billion at Sept. 30, 2012 compared with $1.4 billion at June 30, 2012. The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio primarily reflects a decline in interest rates and improved credit spreads.
unrealized pre-tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio
 
 
We generated $780 million of gross Basel I Tier 1 common equity in the third quarter of 2012.
Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.3% at Sept. 30, 2012 compared with 8.7% at June 30, 2012. The increase was primarily due to earnings retention and an increase in the value of the investment portfolio, partially offset by higher risk-weighted assets.
 On Oct. 17, 2012, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.13 per common share. This cash dividend is payable on Nov. 6, 2012 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Oct. 29, 2012.
Dividends (common)
 On Oct. 17, 2012, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation also declared dividends for the dividend period ending in December 2012 of $1,011.11 per share on the Series A Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (the "Series A Preferred Stock") (equivalent to $10.11 per Normal Preferred Capital Security of Mellon Capital IV, referred to below, each representing 1/100
Dividends (preferred)
th
interest in a share of Series A Preferred Stock), and $1,314.44 per share on the Series C Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (the "Series C Preferred Stock") (equivalent to $0.33 per depositary share, each representing a 1/4,000th interest in a share of the Series C Preferred Stock (the "Depositary Shares")), payable on Dec. 20, 2012 to holders of record as of the close of business on Dec. 5, 2012. All of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are owned by Mellon Capital IV, which will pass through the December dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock to the holders of record, as of the close of business on Dec. 5, 2012, of its Normal Preferred Capital Securities. All of the outstanding shares of the Series C Preferred Stock are held by the depositary of the Depositary Shares, which will pass through the applicable portion of the December dividend on the Series C Preferred Stock to the holders of record, as of the close of business on Dec. 5, 2012, of the Depositary Shares.
BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has $27.9 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.4 trillion in assets under management, services $11.6 trillion in outstanding debt and processes global payments averaging $1.4 trillion per day. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Additional information is available on www.bnymellon.com or follow us on Twitter@BNYMellon.
 
Supplemental Financial Information
The Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation have been updated through Sept. 30, 2012 and are available at www.bnymellon.com (Investor Relations  Financial Reports).
Conference Call Data
Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer and Thomas P. Gibbons, vice chairman and chief financial officer, along with other members of executive management from BNY Mellon, will host a conference call and simultaneous live audio webcast at 8:00 a.m. EDT on Oct. 17, 2012. This conference call and audio webcast will include forward-looking statements and may include other material information.
Persons wishing to access the conference call and audio webcast may do so by dialing (888) 677-5383 (U.S.) and (773) 799-3611 (International), and using the passcode: Earnings, or by logging on to www.bnymellon.com. The Earnings Release, together with the Quarterly Earnings Review and Supplemental Financial Trends, will be available at www.bnymellon.com beginning at approximately 6:30 a.m. EDT on Oct. 17, 2012. Replays of the conference call and audio webcast will be available beginning Oct. 17, 2012 at approximately 2 p.m. EDT through Oct. 31, 2012 by dialing (888) 566-0103 (U.S.) or (402) 998- 0958 (International). The archived version of the conference call and audio webcast will also be available at www.bnymellon.com for the same time period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation.
 
 
 
Capital
The following table presents our Basel I Tier 1 common equity generated.
 
Supplemental information  Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures
BNY Mellon has included in this Earnings Release certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders' equity. BNY Mellon believes that the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets and the ratio of tangible common shareholders' equity to tangible assets of operations are measures of capital strength that provide additional useful information to investors, supplementing the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios which are utilized by regulatory authorities. The ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets excludes preferred stock, as well as the trust preferred securities which will be phased out of Basel I Tier 1 regulatory capital beginning in 2013. Unlike the Basel I Tier 1 and Total capital ratios, the tangible common shareholders' equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders' equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon's performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income. BNY Mellon has presented its estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio on a basis that is representative of how it currently understands the Basel III rules. Management views the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio as a key measure in monitoring BNY Mellon's capital position. The presentation of the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio allows investors to compare BNY Mellon's Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio with estimates presented by other companies. Additionally, BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding.
BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of noncontrolling interests related to consolidated investment management funds and other revenue related to the Shareowner Services business, which was sold on Dec. 31, 2011, and expense measures which exclude M&I expenses, litigation charges, restructuring charges, amortization of intangible assets and direct expenses related to the Shareowner Services business. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon's control. The excluded items in general relate to certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions or where we have incurred charges. M&I expenses primarily relate to the acquisitions of Global Investment Servicing on July 1, 2010 and BHF Asset Servicing GmbH on Aug. 2, 2010. M&I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M&I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon's business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M&I expenses have ceased. Future periods will not reflect such
 
M&I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared with our current results if M&I expenses are excluded. Litigation charges represent accruals for loss contingencies that are both probable and reasonably estimable, but exclude standard business-related legal fees. Restructuring charges relate to our operational excellence initiatives and migrating positions to global delivery centers. Excluding these charges permits investors to view expenses on a basis consistent with how management views the business. BNY Mellon also presents revenue and noninterest expense results relating to the Shareowner Services business so that an investor may compare those results with other periods, which do not include the Shareowner Services business.
In this Earnings Release, the net interest margin is presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.
The following table presents investment management fees net of performance fees.
 
N/M  Not meaningful.
The following table presents the calculation of the return on common equity and the return on tangible common equity.
 
 
The following table presents the calculation of the equity to assets ratio and book value per common share.
 
The following table presents the calculation of the pre-tax operating margin ratio.
 
 
The following table presents the calculation of our Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio  Non-GAAP.
 
The following table presents the calculation of our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio  Non-GAAP on a fully-phased in basis.
 
Cautionary Statement
The information presented in this Earnings Release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements made regarding our estimated capital ratios and our ability to reduce expense growth through our operational excellence initiatives. These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, include the use of future or present tense language. These statements and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of BNY Mellon which make reference to the cautionary factors described in this Earnings Release, are based upon current beliefs and expectations and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon's control). Factors that could cause BNY Mellon's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-
 
looking statements can be found in the risk factors set forth in BNY Mellon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, BNY Mellon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this Earnings Release speak only as of Oct. 17, 2012 and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after that date or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 


