FILE:BK/BK-8K-20121205080359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01.     REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
On Wednesday, December 5, 2012, at 11:40 a.m. (EST), Gerald L. Hassell, chairman, president and chief executive officer of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the "Registrant") and Thomas P. Gibbons, vice chairman and chief financial officer of the Registrant, are scheduled to present at the 2012 Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference in New York.
A copy of the presentation materials to be used by the Registrant during its presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. A live webcast of the audio portion of the conference will also be available at the Registrant's website (). A series of related graphics will be available at the same website at approximately 8 a.m. EST on Wednesday, December 5. An archived version of the audio portion will be available at the same website, beginning at approximately 5 p.m. (EST) on December 5 and will remain available until 5 p.m. (EST) on Wednesday, December 19.
www.bnymellon.com/investorrelations
The information in this Item 7.01, and in Exhibit 99.1 attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, is being "furnished" pursuant to General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K and is not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filings the Registrant has made or may make under the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
ITEM 9.01.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 



