FILE:LO/LO-8K-20100812085940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On August 12, 2010, Lorillard, Inc. (the "Company") announced that the Board of Directors has named Murray S. Kessler to succeed Martin L. Orlowsky as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, effective September 13, 2010 (the "Effective Date"). Mr. Orlowsky, who has been employed with the Company and its subsidiaries for almost 20 years, announced his plans to retire, effective December 31, 2010. Mr. Orlowsky will remain Chairman of the Board through December 31, 2010 and also intends to retire from the Board of Directors at that time. Mr. Kessler will assume the role of Chairman of the Board, effective January 1, 2011. A copy of the Company's press release dated August 12, 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Orlowsky has entered into a Consulting Agreement with the Company dated August 12, 2010 which provides for a two year consulting period following his retirement during which Mr. Orlowsky will provide consulting services to the Company and be paid a consulting fee of $0.5 million per year. During the term of the Consulting Agreement, Mr. Orlowsky will be subject to the same restrictive covenants provided by Sections 10 through 12 of his Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated December 19, 2008 (the "Employment Agreement"). In addition, the Consulting Agreement provides for continued vesting of Mr. Orlowsky's unvested stock appreciation rights, stock options and restricted stock awards pursuant to their terms through the applicable vesting dates provided in the original award certificates as well as the accelerated vesting of any unvested restricted stock awards on December 31, 2012. The Consulting Agreement also contains certain amendments to Mr. Orlowsky's Employment Agreement, including modifications to the positions he will hold during the term thereof and application of the Company's clawback policy.
The terms of Mr. Kessler's Offer Letter with the Company dated August 12, 2010 provide for a base salary of $1.2 million per year, a target annual incentive plan payout of $1.8 million subject to pre-established performance goals (pro rated for 2010), long-term incentive opportunity of $5.0 million per year consisting of one-third stock option awards to be granted in four equal quarterly installments beginning on or about the Effective Date and two-thirds restricted stock awards to be granted on about the Effective Date (pro rated for 2010), a signing bonus of $1.0 million to be paid within 30 days of the Effective Date and generally subject to repayment on a pro rata basis if Mr. Kessler's employment is terminated prior to the second anniversary of the Effective Date, reimbursement for relocation expenses in accordance with the Company's relocation policy, and reimbursement for legal fees incurred in connection with the negotiation of the terms of his employment. Mr. Kessler will also be subject to certain restrictive covenants, including non-compete and non-solicitation covenants for three years following his termination from employment and a confidentiality covenant, as well as the Company's stock ownership guidelines and clawback policy.
Pursuant to the terms of the Offer Letter, Mr. Kessler will enter into a change in control severance agreement providing for a three times severance multiple and an indemnification agreement with the Company upon the same terms as those previously entered into with the Company's other senior executive officers; provided however that, the excise tax gross up provision in Section 6.2 of the change in control severance agreement entered into with other executives has been replaced with a "better of net-after-tax or cutback" provision which requires that the payments contingent upon a change in control be reduced to less than three times Mr. Kessler's "base amount" (as defined by the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) if such reduction would place him in a better after-tax financial position than if all such payments were made and applicable taxes, including excise taxes, paid. See the description of the material terms of these agreements as set forth under "Change in Control and Other Severance Arrangements" and "Indemnification Agreements" in the Company's 2010 Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 5, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Kessler served as a member of the Board of Directors of UST Inc. from November 2005 through December 2008.
The above description of the Employment Agreement, Consulting Agreement and Offer Letter are qualified in their entirety by reference to the terms of those agreements attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively.
In addition, on August 11, 2010, David H. Taylor, Executive Vice President, Finance and Planning and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, resigned as a director of the Board, effective September 13, 2010, upon the Board's request as part of certain corporate governance policy changes. The Board determined that only executive officers serving as Chairman of the Board and/or Chief Executive Officer serve as directors to ensure that the Board maintained a supermajority of independent directors.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 12, 2010

Exhibit 10.2
August 12, 2010
Mr. Martin L. Orlowsky 714 Green Valley Road Greensboro, NC 27408
Dear Martin:
We understand that your retirement from Lorillard, Inc. (the "") will be effective December 31, 2010 upon the expiration of the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, by and between you and the Company and dated as of December 19, 2008 (the ""). This letter sets forth the terms and conditions under which you will cease serving as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer and will provide consulting services to the board of directors of the Company (the ""), in order that the Company may continue to benefit from your knowledge and extensive experience in the tobacco industry and in the management and leadership of the Company and its businesses, products and customers. For the avoidance of doubt, except for the change in your title described herein, your Employment Agreement, including the compensation and benefits thereunder, will continue in full force and effect through December 31, 2010.
Company
Employment Agreement
Board
1. . Except as may otherwise be requested by the Board, at the close of business on the date immediately preceding the date of the commencement of a new President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company (expected to be on or about September 13, 2010,) you will no longer hold the title of President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and will serve the Company, in an executive capacity, as Chairman of the Board through December 31, 2010. At the close of business on December 31, 2010, you will cease serving as Chairman of the Board and as an employee of the Company in all positions (""). If, as of your Retirement, you are a member of the Board or the board of directors of any of the Company's subsidiaries, or hold any other position with the Company or its subsidiaries, you will be deemed to have resigned from all such positions as of the date of your Retirement. You agree to execute such documents and take such other actions as the Company may request to reflect such resignations.
Succession; Effect on Other Positions
Retirement
2. . Your service as a consultant to the Board pursuant to this letter will commence on January 1, 2011 (the "") and will terminate on the second anniversary of the Effective Date, subject to your continued compliance with this letter, including the Restrictive Covenants (as defined in Section 6 below) (the "").
Consulting Period
Effective Date
Consulting Period
 
Mr. Martin L. Orlowsky August 12, 2010 Page 2
3. .
Services; Time Commitment
(a) . During the Consulting Period, you will serve as a consultant and advisor to the Company and the Board and will provide services as may be reasonably requested by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer from time to time (the "").
Services
Services
(b) . During the Consulting Period, you will (i) dedicate the amount of your business time and attention which you deem reasonably necessary to perform the Services, (ii) perform the Services at such locations as you reasonably deem appropriate, (iii) use your reasonable best efforts to promote the best interests of the Company, and (iv) perform the Services diligently and consistently with the requirements set forth in this letter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is the intent of the Board and you, and the Board and you agree to use reasonable efforts to ensure, that the amount of your Services will not exceed twenty percent of the average level of services that you performed (whether as an employee or an independent contractor of the Company) over the thirty-six-month period immediately preceding the Effective Date, consistent with the intent that your Retirement with the Company (and its subsidiaries) constitute a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "").
Time Commitment
Code
4. .
Fees for Services and Related Matters
(a) . During the Consulting Period, the Company will pay you an annual consulting fee of $500,000 (the ""), payable in arrears, in equal monthly installments on the first day of each calendar month (or the following business day).
Fees for Services
Consulting Fee
(b) . Except as provided below, effective as of your Retirement, you will be treated as a terminated employee and having incurred a "separation from service," as defined under Section 409A of the Code, for purposes of all of the employee benefit plans of the Company and its subsidiaries. However, solely with respect to your unvested stock appreciation rights, stock options and restricted stock awards (both time based and performance based) that were granted under the Company's equity plans and are outstanding as of your Retirement, (i) each such stock appreciation right and stock option will continue to vest in accordance with its applicable vesting schedule as if you were an employee during the Consulting Period and thereafter through the applicable vesting date, and (ii) each such restricted stock award will continue to vest in accordance with its applicable vesting schedule as if you were an employee during the Consulting Period and any unvested restricted stock awards as of December 31, 2012 will vest immediately on such date. In the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, the vesting is subject to your continued compliance with this letter during the Consulting Period, including the Restrictive Covenants, and, in the case of stock options and stock appreciation rights that vest after the end of the Consulting Period, continued compliance with the Restrictive Covenants through the applicable vesting date. Stock options and stock appreciation rights, whether vested as of the date of your Retirement or due to the continued vesting provisions of this Section 4(b), will continue to be exercisable by you until the expiration of the original full term.
Continued Vesting of Outstanding Equity Awards
 
Mr. Martin L. Orlowsky August 12, 2010 Page 3
(c) . The Company will, upon submission of appropriate documentation and subject to the requirements of Section 7 hereof, reimburse you for your reasonable business expenses, including, without limitation, airfares, and telecommunication expenses, incurred by you during the Consulting Period in connection with the performance of your duties hereunder in accordance with the Company's policies and procedures in effect from time to time with respect to its vendors. You will bear all of your other expenses.
Reimbursement of Expenses
(d) . Except as specifically provided herein, you will be entitled to no compensation or benefits from the Company with respect to the Services, will not be eligible to participate in any employee benefit plans of the Company and its subsidiaries and will not be credited with service for purposes of eligibility, vesting or benefit accrual under any employee benefit plan of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Sole Consideration
(e) . You acknowledge and agree that all incentive compensation earned or paid to you, including, without limitation, all equity awards earned and/or granted to you prior to the date of your Retirement, are and will continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's clawback policy adopted by the Board, as amended from time to time.
Clawback
5. .
Independent Contractor Relationship
(a) . In providing your Services, you are acting solely as an independent contractor, not as an employee, agent or joint venturer of the Company, and, except with respect to your equity awards, you will not be entitled to any benefits provided to employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. The Company will not exercise general supervision or control over the time, place or manner in which you provide the Services. You acknowledge and agree that you are solely responsible for the payment of all Federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are required by applicable laws or regulations to be paid with respect to the Consulting Fee or other remuneration payable hereunder other than the equity awards which will be subject to any reporting and withholding as required by applicable law, and under no circumstances whatsoever, including without limitation, for the purposes of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, the Social Security Act, the Federal Unemployment Tax Act and Federal and state income tax withholding, will you be deemed an employee of the Company. You will have no authority to sign any document or extend any credit on behalf of the Company or to bind the Company in any way.
Status as an Independent Contractor
(b) . You represent and warrant that you are able to enter into this letter and that your ability to enter into this letter and to fully perform the Services contemplated hereunder is not limited to or restricted by any agreements or understandings between you and any other person or restricted or prohibited by applicable law.
No Restrictions
 
Mr. Martin L. Orlowsky August 12, 2010 Page 4
(c) . The Company acknowledges that you are not prohibited by this letter from obtaining employment with or otherwise providing services to another entity during the Consulting Period, that, (i) such other employment or services do not interfere with your ability to perform the Services under this letter and (ii) such other employment or services are not prohibited by the Restrictive Covenants.
Non-Exclusive Services
provided
6. .
Restrictive Covenants
(a) You agree that you are subject to the restrictive covenants as provided under Sections 10 through 12 of your Employment Agreement ("") which survive your Retirement and the expiration of your Employment Agreement; , , that you agree that the Restrictive Covenants under Sections 11 and 12 of your Employment Agreement will apply for the duration of the Consulting Period and for the three year period following the end of the Consulting Period.
Restrictive Covenants
provided
however
(b) In addition to the Restrictive Covenants, you acknowledge and agree that, during the Consulting Period and at any time thereafter, you will hold in confidence all confidential and/or proprietary information, knowledge, know-how, trade secrets, and similar matters and property of the Company, and will not directly or indirectly disclose or make use of any such confidential information. In addition, you agree that upon your cessation of the Consulting Period for any reason, you will provide to the Company all documents, papers, files or other material in your possession and under your control that are connected with or derived from your services to the Company under your Employment Agreement or this letter.
(c) You agree that the restrictions provided in this Section 6, including the Restrictive Covenants (as modified by Section 6(a) hereof), are reasonable in their time, territory and scope, and acknowledge that the Company would be irreparably injured by a violation of the terms of any such covenants. You agree that the remedies at law for any breach of this letter by you would be inadequate and that in the event of any such breach the Company will be entitled to seek a preliminary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other equivalent relief, restraining you from any actual or threatened breach of this letter in any court which may have competent jurisdiction over the matter in dispute.
7. . This letter is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury regulations relating thereto or an exception to Section 409A of the Code. For purposes of compliance with Section 409A of the Code, each payment of compensation under this letter will be treated as a separate payment of compensation, and in no event may you, directly or indirectly, designate the calendar year of any payment under this letter. All reimbursements provided under this letter will be provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including, that (a) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during one calendar year will not affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year; (b) the reimbursement of an eligible expense will be made no later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense is incurred; and (c) the right to any reimbursement will not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
Section 409A
 
Mr. Martin L. Orlowsky August 12, 2010 Page 5
8. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . This letter may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
Amendment
(b) . This letter is personal to you and without the prior written consent of the Company will not be assignable by you. This letter and any rights and benefits hereunder will inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by your legal representatives, heirs or legatees. This letter and any rights and benefits hereunder will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. As used in this letter, "Company" will mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this letter by operation of law, or otherwise.
Successor
(c) . The headings in this letter are for convenience of reference only and do not affect the interpretation of this letter.
Headings
(d) . Any notice required or permitted to be given under this letter will be deemed properly given in writing and if mailed by registered or certified, postage prepaid with return receipt requested, to the business address of the Company, to the attention of the Senior Vice President, Legal and External Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary, and to your residence address, or to such other address as a party is directed pursuant to written notice from the other party.
Notices
(e) . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this letter will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this letter, and this letter will be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted (but only to the extent that such provision cannot be appropriately reformed or modified).
Severability
(f) . No waiver by any party hereto of a breach of any provision of this letter by any other party, or of compliance with any condition or provision of this letter to be performed by such other party, will operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by such other party of any similar or dissimilar provisions and conditions at the same or any prior or subsequent time. The failure of any party hereto to take any action by reason of such breach will not deprive such party of the right to take action at any time while such breach continues.
Waiver of Breach
(g) . Except as provided herein, from and after the Effective Date, this letter will supersede any other agreement or understanding between the parties with respect to the subject hereof, including but not limited to your Employment Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, this letter does not supersede or otherwise affect Sections 10 through 15 of the Employment Agreement, which survive your Retirement and will remain in effect in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement, as amended by this letter, or the rights with respect to the supplemental retirement benefits set forth in Section 5(b) of the Employment Agreement, which will be paid in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
Mr. Martin L. Orlowsky August 12, 2010 Page 6
(h) . This letter will be governed by, and construed under and in accordance with, the internal laws of the State of North Carolina, without reference to rules relating to conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
(i) . This letter may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which is deemed to be an original and all of which taken together constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
Mr. Martin L. Orlowsky August 12, 2010 Page 7
If this letter correctly sets forth our agreement, please return a signed copy of this letter to the Company.

Exhibit 10.3
Mr. Murray S. Kessler
Dear Murray:
I am pleased to confirm the terms of your employment with Lorillard, Inc. (the "").
Company
 
Mr. Murray Kessler August 12, 2010 Page 2
 
Mr. Murray Kessler August 12, 2010 Page 3
 
Mr. Murray Kessler August 12, 2010 Page 4
 
Mr. Murray Kessler August 12, 2010 Page 5
 
Mr. Murray Kessler August 12, 2010 Page 6
entitled to seek a preliminary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other equivalent relief, restraining you from any actual or threatened breach of this letter in any court which may have competent jurisdiction over the matter in dispute. With respect to any provision of this paragraph 12 finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable, you hereby agree that a court shall have jurisdiction to reform such provisions, including the duration or scope of such provisions, as the case may be, so that they are enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law. If any of the covenants of this paragraph 12 are determined to be wholly or partially unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such determination will not be a bar to or in any way diminish the rights of the Company to enforce any such covenant in any other jurisdiction.
 
Mr. Murray Kessler August 12, 2010 Page 7
 
If this letter correctly sets forth our agreement, please return a signed copy of this letter to the Company.
We look forward to your leadership.

Exhibit 99.1
GREENSBORO, NC, August 12, 2010Lorillard, Inc. (NYSE:LO) announced today that its Board of Directors has elected Murray S. Kessler as President and Chief Executive Officer, effective September 13, 2010, succeeding Martin L. Orlowsky, current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kessler also was elected to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, effective September 13, 2010.
In addition, Mr. Orlowsky announced his intention to retire as Chairman of the Board and a director, effective December 31, 2010. The Board of Directors has entered into a consulting agreement with Mr. Orlowsky to provide ongoing advice to the Company for a period of two years following his retirement.
"It has been a privilege to serve as Lorillard's President and Chief Executive Officer for the past eleven years. I have enjoyed working with the Board of Directors, leadership team and dedicated employees to build a successful business and oversee its transition as a public company," said Mr. Orlowsky. "With his qualifications and proven track record at UST, Inc., Murray is well positioned to continue to build on Lorillard's success. I look forward to assisting with his transition over the next few months."
Speaking on behalf of Lorillard's Board of Directors, Lead Independent Director Richard Roedel said, "On behalf of the Board, I want to take this opportunity to thank Marty for his leadership, vision and commitment to Lorillard. For the past year, the Board of Directors has searched for a Chief Executive Officer with the industry and leadership experience to succeed Marty. Murray's outstanding background and significant experience in the tobacco industry make us confident that he is the right choice to successfully lead Lorillard going forward."
Commenting on his new appointment, Mr. Kessler said, "Thanks to Marty and his strong leadership team, Lorillard has outperformed the tobacco industry in almost every key measure. I am honored to join the leadership team of this great company, its dedicated employees and passionate Board of Directors. I am confident that together we will build upon the Company's strategy of responsibly winning in the marketplace and, as a result, grow shareholder value. I look forward to working with Marty to ensure a smooth transition."
Mr. Kessler, 51, joins Lorillard most recently from Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria"), where he served as Vice Chair of Altria and President and Chief Executive Officer of UST LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary. Mr. Kessler held this position from January 2009 through June 2009, the six months following the acquisition of UST, Inc. ("UST") by Altria. Prior to 2009, Mr. Kessler had served as Chairman of the Board of UST, the principal businesses of which included U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company ("USSTC") and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, since January 2008 and President and Chief Executive Officer of UST since January 2007. He was President and Chief Operating Officer from November 2005 to December 2006 and was President of USSTC from April 2000 through October 2005. During his tenure at UST, the company experienced tremendous growth including an increase in enterprise value from $3 billion to $12 billion. Prior to joining UST, Mr. Kessler had over 18 years of consumer packaged goods experience with companies, including Campbell Soup and Clorox.
Mr. Kessler earned a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from Villanova University and an M.B.A. in marketing and finance from New York University's Stern School.
 
About Lorillard, Inc.
Lorillard, Inc. (NYSE: LO) is the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States. Founded in 1760, Lorillard is the oldest continuously operating tobacco company in the U.S. Newport, Lorillard's flagship menthol-flavored premium cigarette brand, is the top selling menthol and second largest selling cigarette in the U.S. In addition to Newport, the Lorillard product line has five additional brand families marketed under the Kent, True, Maverick, Old Gold and Max brand names. These six brands include 41 different product offerings which vary in price, taste, flavor, length and packaging. Lorillard maintains its headquarters and manufactures all of its products in Greensboro, North Carolina.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "may," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result" and similar expressions. In addition, any statement that may be provided by management concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects and possible actions by Lorillard, Inc. are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Reform Act.
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. Information describing factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is available in Lorillard, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including but not limited to, our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. These filings are available from the SEC over the Internet or in hard copy, and are available on our website at . Forward-looking statements speak only as of the time they are made, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.lorillard.com


