FILE:LO/LO-8K-20100326170026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 26, 2010, Lorillard Tobacco Company (the "Company"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Lorillard, Inc., ("Lorillard") entered into a credit agreement among the Company, as borrower, Lorillard, as parent guarantor, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the lenders party thereto (the "Agreement") pursuant to which the lenders will agree to extend to the Company up to $185,000,000 (or $300,000,000 upon request for commitment increases) in loans. The Agreement expires on March 26, 2013. The interest rates on borrowings under the Agreement will be based on prevailing interest rates as described in the Agreement and, in part, upon the credit rating applicable to the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt.
The Agreement requires that Lorillard maintain a (i) ratio of debt to net income plus income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization expense, any extraordinary losses, any non-cash expenses or losses and any losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business ("EBITDA") of not more than 2.25 to 1 and (ii) ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 3.0 to 1. In addition, the Agreement contains other affirmative and negative covenants customary for facilities of this type. The Agreement contains customary events of default, including upon a change in control (as defined therein), that could result in the acceleration of all amounts and cancellation of all commitments outstanding under the Agreement.
At March 26, 2010, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Agreement.
Some of the lenders under the agreements and their affiliates have various relationships with Lorillard and its subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, hedging, trust and investment banking services.
The foregoing description of the Agreement is only a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is hereby incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference. The representations and warranties contained in the Agreement were made solely for purposes of allocating contractual risks between the parties and not as a means of establishing facts. Such representations and warranties may be subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by the parties in connection with negotiating the terms of the Agreement and shall not be relied on as factual information at the time they were made or otherwise. The Agreement may have different standards of materiality than under applicable securities laws.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information contained in and incorporated into Item 1.01 above is hereby incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 26, 2010

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
SCHEDULES
:
EXHIBITS
 
CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of March 26, 2010, among LORILLARD TOBACCO COMPANY (the ""), LORILLARD, INC. (the ""), the LENDERS party hereto, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
Parent
The parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20(a).
Additional Lender
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and its successors in such capacity.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" shall mean this Credit Agreement, as modified, supplemented, amended, restated (including any amendment and restatement hereof), extended or renewed from time to time.
Agreement
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus / of 1% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%, that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on the Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
1
2
provided
 
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment; that in the case of Section 2.19 when a Defaulting Lender shall exist, "Applicable Percentage" shall mean the percentage of the total Commitments (disregarding any Defaulting Lender's Commitment) represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments and to any Lender's status as a Defaulting Lender at the time of determination.
Applicable Percentage
provided
"" means, for any day, with respect to any ABR Loan or Eurodollar Revolving Loan, or with respect to the facility fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "ABR Spread", "Eurodollar Spread" or "Facility Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the ratings by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt:
Applicable Rate
For purposes of the foregoing, (i) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 6; (ii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher (the highest category being Category 1) of the two ratings unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; and (iii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency, irrespective of when notice of such change shall have been furnished by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.01 or otherwise. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Parent, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption agreement entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and any other date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy," as now or hereafter in effect, or any successor thereto.
Bankruptcy Code
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means the board of directors of the Parent or the Borrower, as applicable, or any duly authorized committee of that board or any director or directors and/or officer or officers of the Parent or the Borrower, as applicable, to whom that board or committee shall have duly delegated its authority.
Board of Directors
"" has the meaning provided in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Borrower
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" means, as to any Person, the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
 
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the SEC thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of Equity Interests representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower; (b) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Borrower's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or (c) the Parent shall at any time cease to own directly 100% of the Equity Interests of the Borrower.
Change in Control
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the Effective Date, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the Effective Date or (c) compliance by any Lender or Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the Effective Date.
Change in Law
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.13.
Charges
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08, (b) increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.20 or (c) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $185,000,000.
Commitment
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20(a).
Commitment Increase
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20(a).
Commitment Increase Lender
"" means the total of all the assets appearing on the most recent quarterly or annual consolidated balance sheet of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), the following:
Consolidated Capitalization
less
(a) current liabilities, including liabilities for indebtedness maturing more than 12 months from the date of the original creation thereof, but maturing within 12 months from the date of such consolidated balance sheet; and
(b) deferred income tax liabilities appearing on such consolidated balance sheet.
 
"" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) provision for all income taxes, (b) interest expense, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness (including the Loans), (c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs, (e) any extraordinary losses, (f) any non-cash expenses or losses and (g) any losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business (whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period), and minus, (a) to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (i) interest income, (ii) any extraordinary gain, (iii) any non-cash income or gains, and (iv) any gain on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business (whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period), and (b) any cash payments made during such period in respect of any non-cash items described in clauses (d), (e) or (f) above subsequent to the fiscal quarter in which the relevant non-cash item was reflected as a charge in the statement of Consolidated Net Income, all as determined on a consolidated basis. For the purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (each, a "") pursuant to any determination of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, (i) if at any time during such Reference Period the Parent or any Subsidiary shall have made any Material Disposition, the Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if positive) attributable to the property that is the subject of such Material Disposition for such Reference Period or increased by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if negative) attributable thereto for such Reference Period and (ii) if during such Reference Period the Parent or any Subsidiary shall have made a Material Acquisition, Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such Material Acquisition occurred on the first day of such Reference Period. As used in this definition, "" means any acquisition of property or series of related acquisitions of property that (a) constitutes assets comprising all or substantially all of an operating unit of a business or constitutes all or substantially all of the common stock of a Person and (b) involves the payment of consideration by the Parent and its Subsidiaries in excess of $200,000,000; and "" means any Disposition of property or series of related Dispositions of property that yields gross proceeds to the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of $200,000,000.
Consolidated EBITDA
Reference Period
Material Acquisition
Material Disposition
"" means, for any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
"" means, for any period, total cash interest expense (including that attributable to Capital Lease Obligations) of the Parent and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of the Parent and its Subsidiaries (including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financing and net costs under Swap Agreements in respect of interest rates to the extent such net costs are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP).
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
"" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of the Parent and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that there shall be excluded (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of the Parent or is merged into or consolidated with the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, subject to the second sentence of the definition of "Consolidated EBITDA", (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Parent) in which the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by the Parent or such Subsidiary in the form of dividends or similar distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of the Parent to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of any Contractual Obligation or Requirement of Law applicable to such Subsidiary.
Consolidated Net Income
provided
 
"" means the excess over current liabilities of all assets appearing on the most recent quarterly or annual consolidated balance sheet of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) goodwill and other intangible assets and the minority interests of others in subsidiaries.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
less
"" means, at any date, the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness of the Parent and its Subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Debt
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Borrower's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the Effective Date or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Borrower's proxy statement in which such member was named a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means any Lender that has (a) failed, within three Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans or participations in Letters of Credit or Swingline Loans or (ii) pay over to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in each case, such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that failure is the subject of a good faith dispute and, in the case of any failure to fund under clause (i), such failure results from such Lender's good faith determination that (x) the conditions precedent to funding have not been satisfied or (y) is otherwise the subject of a good faith dispute; (b) notified the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) failed, within three Business Days after a good faith request by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender to provide a certification in writing from such Lender's chief financial officer that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Loans and participations in then outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans; that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon the Administrative Agent's, each Issuing Lenders' or the Swingline Lender's, as the case may be, receipt of such certification, or (d) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian, appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment or has a parent company that has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership, or the acquisition of any ownership, interest in such Lender or a parent company thereof or the exercise of control over such Lender or parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof.
Defaulting Lender
provided
provided
 
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06.
Disclosed Matters
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Parent or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract or agreement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Parent or the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(c) of the Code or Section 302(c) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective ERISA Affiliates from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective ERISA Affiliates of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective ERISA Affiliates of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
 
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Parent or the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes (however denominated) imposed on (or measured by) its net income, profits, overall gross income or receipts, net worth or capital by the United States of America (or any political subdivision thereof), or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, or by any other jurisdiction as a result of any other present or former connection between such recipient and such jurisdiction (other than any connection arising solely from the execution, delivery or performance of any Loan Document), (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender pursuant to a Requirement of Law in effect on the date such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto or the date such Foreign Lender designates a new Lending Office, except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower or the Parent with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a), (d) any Tax that is attributable to a Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(e) and (e) any United States federal withholding tax that would not have been imposed but for a failure by such recipient (or any financial institution through which any payment is made to such recipient) to comply with the applicable requirements of Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code and any Treasury regulation promulgated thereunder any such law or published administrative guidance implementing such Sections.
Excluded Taxes
"" means the Indenture, dated June 23, 2009, among the Borrower, the Parent and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, governing the Borrower's 8.125% Senior Notes due June 23, 2019, as amended, modified and/or supplemented prior to the Effective Date.
Existing Indenture
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower or the Parent.
Financial Officer
"" means any Lender that is not a United States person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, administration, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" means the Parent Guaranty and, on and after the execution and delivery thereof, the Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement.
Guarantee Agreement
"" shall mean and include the Administrative Agent, each Lender, the Swingline Lender, each Issuing Bank and their subsequent permitted assigns.
Guaranteed Creditors
"" shall mean the principal of and interest on all Loans incurred by the Borrower and all reimbursement obligations for LC Disbursements with respect to Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower, together with all the other obligations (including obligations which, but for the automatic stay under Section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, would become due) and liabilities (including, without limitation, indemnities and fees (including any interest accruing after the commencement of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding at the rate provided in this Agreement, whether or not such interest is an allowed claim in any such proceeding)) owing by the Borrower to any Guaranteed Creditor, whether now existing or hereafter incurred under, arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement and the due performance and compliance by the Borrower with all of the terms, conditions and agreements contained in this Agreement.
Guaranteed Obligations
"" means the Parent and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Guarantors
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20(a).
Incremental Amendment
"" means, of any Person at any date, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than current trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) all obligations of such Person, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar arrangements, (g) all Guarantee Obligations of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above, and (h) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.03(b).
Indemnitee
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person (other than the Parent) or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.12.
Information
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated March 3, 2010 relating to the Parent, the Borrower and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07.
Interest Election Request
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means each of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in its capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and their respective successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.05(i). Each Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
Issuing Bank
"" means a payment made by an Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
"" means the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent.
Lead Agents
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption or Section 2.20, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement.
Letter of Credit
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on the Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such page, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
 
"" means this Agreement, any promissory note of the Borrower issued as described in Section 2.09(e) and, on the execution and delivery thereof, the Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement.
Loan Documents
"" means the Parent, the Borrower and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Loan Party
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" has the meaning provided in Regulation U.
Margin Stock
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, property, or condition (financial or otherwise) or, for purposes of Section 3.06(a), prospects of the Parent, the Borrower and their respective Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (b) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the rights or remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder or thereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of any one or more of the Parent and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Parent or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Parent or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
"" means (i) the Borrower and (ii) any other Subsidiary of the Parent now or at any time hereafter meeting any one of the following conditions: (a) the assets of such Subsidiary exceed 10% of the aggregate assets appearing on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Parent, or (b) the gross revenues of such Subsidiary for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Parent most recently ended exceed 10% of the gross revenues of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries for such period, or (c) such Subsidiary has one or more Subsidiaries and together therewith would, if considered in the aggregate, constitute a Material Subsidiary within the terms of clauses (a) and (b) of this definition. Upon the acquisition of a new Subsidiary, qualification as a "Material Subsidiary" shall be determined on a pro forma basis on the assumption that such Subsidiary had been acquired at the beginning of the relevant period of four consecutive fiscal quarters.
Material Subsidiary
"" means March 26, 2013.
Maturity Date
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.13.
Maximum Rate
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" shall mean all amounts, direct or indirect, contingent or absolute, of every type or description, and at any time existing, owing to any Lead Agent, any Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding).
Obligations
"" means, a written opinion of independent legal counsel of recognized standing and, for all other purposes hereof, means a written opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be.
Opinion of Counsel
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made under any Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" has the meaning provided in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
Parent
"" shall mean the guaranty of the Parent pursuant to Article X of this Agreement.
Parent Guaranty
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Participant
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Participant Register
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.14.
Patriot Act
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its office located at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" means any facility, together with the land upon which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof, used primarily for manufacturing, processing or production and located in the United States, owned or leased pursuant to a capital lease by the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries, that has a gross book value (without deduction of any depreciation reserve) on the date as of which the determination is being made exceeding 2% of Consolidated Capitalization.
Principal Facility
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Register
"" means Regulation U of the Board as from time to time in effect and any successor to all or a portion thereof establishing margin requirements.
Regulation U
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" means, as to any Person, the Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Requirement of Law
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03.
Revolving Loan
"" means Standard & Poor's.
S&P
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.03(a).
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission and any successor thereto.
SEC
"" means, when used with respect to any Person, that, as of any date of determination, (a) the amount of the "present fair saleable value" of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, exceed the amount of all "liabilities of such Person, contingent or otherwise", as of such date, as such quoted terms are determined in accordance with applicable federal and state laws governing determinations of the insolvency of debtors, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the liability of such Person on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured, (c) such Person will not have, as of such date, an unreasonably small amount of capital with which to conduct its business, and (d) such Person will be able to pay its debts as they mature. For purposes of this definition, (i) "debt" means liability on a "claim", and (ii) "claim" means any (x) right to payment, whether or not such a right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured or (y) right to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise to a right to payment, whether or not such right to an equitable remedy is reduced to judgment, fixed, contingent, matured or unmatured, disputed, undisputed, secured or unsecured. The amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in the light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.
Solvent
 
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentage (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentage shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"" means any subsidiary of the Parent.
Subsidiary
"" means each Subsidiary party to a Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement.
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" means the Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement substantially in the form of entered into (or to be entered into), at the election of the Parent, by one or more Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement
Exhibit C
"" means a corporation in the case of the Parent and a corporation, limited partnership, limited liability company in the case of the Borrower which succeeds to the obligations of the Parent or the Borrower, as the case may be, under this Agreement in compliance with Section 6.02 hereof.
Successor Entity
"" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Parent or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.04.
Swingline Loan
 
"" means Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., in its capacity as syndication agent for the credit facility evidenced by this Agreement.
Syndication Agent
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest and penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of the applicable Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" means, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as of any particular time, the amount equal to the greater of (i) the net proceeds of the sale of the property leased pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction or (ii) the fair value of such property at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as determined by the Board of Directors of Parent, in each such case divided first by the number of full years of the term of the lease and then multiplied by the number of full years of such term remaining at the time of determination, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease.
Value
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
SECTION 1.02. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "Eurodollar Loan") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurodollar Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "Eurodollar Borrowing") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
SECTION 1.03. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
 
SECTION 1.04. . (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made, without giving effect to any election under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 159 (or any other Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities of the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries at "fair value", as defined therein.
SECTION 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
Commitments
SECTION 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Loans and Borrowings
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.13, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000; that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $100,000 and not less than $500,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 6 Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
 
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
SECTION 2.03. . To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such notice of an ABR Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e) may be given not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
provided
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
(v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $30,000,000 or (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments; that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans
provided
 
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Borrower. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Borrower with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e), by remittance to the applicable Issuing Bank) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
(c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
mutatis
mutandis
provided
SECTION 2.05. . (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, the applicable Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Letters of Credit
General
 
(b) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank) to the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section 2.05), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by an Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $30,000,000 and (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Commitments.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
(c) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date.
Expiration Date
(d) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of any Issuing Bank or the Lenders, each Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
Participations
(e) . If any Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if the Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by the Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on (i) the Business Day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.04 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due
Reimbursement
provided
 
from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to such Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the applicable Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and such Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse a Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
mutatis
mutandis
(f) . The Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by any Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section 2.05, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. None of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders or any Issuing Bank, or any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of any Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse any Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by an Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the relevant Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, each Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
Obligations Absolute
provided
(g) . Each Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. Each Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether such Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
Disbursement Procedures
provided
 
(h) . If any Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans; that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.12(c) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the relevant Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05 to reimburse an Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
provided
(i) . Any Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of any Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.11(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of Issuing Bank
(j) . If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII. Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the Obligations. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse each Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of the Required Lenders), be applied to satisfy other Obligations. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
Cash Collateralization
provided
 
SECTION 2.06. . (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders; that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.04. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the relevant Issuing Bank.
Funding of Borrowings
provided
provided
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 2.06 and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.07. . (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Interest Elections
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
 
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
SECTION 2.08. . (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
(b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section 2.08 at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
 
SECTION 2.09. . (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first date after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15th or last day of a calendar month and is at least two Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made; that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section 2.09 shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered and permitted assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
SECTION 2.10. . (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section 2.10.
Prepayment of Loans
(b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.08, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12.
provided
 
SECTION 2.11. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Fees
provided
provided
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Revolving Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to each Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate or rates per annum separately agreed upon between the Borrower and such Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as each Issuing Bank's reasonable and customary fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to any Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to any Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of facility fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.12. . (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
Interest
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section 2.12.
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 2.12 shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.13. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing; that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
provided
 
SECTION 2.14. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or any Issuing Bank; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or any Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or such Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or such Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or any Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or such Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender or an Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days prior to the date that such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
(e) For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.14 shall not apply to any Taxes.
 
SECTION 2.15. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.10(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
SECTION 2.16. . (a) Unless required by applicable Requirements of Law, any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower or the Parent hereunder, under or with respect to any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Taxes; that if the Borrower, the Parent, or the Administrative Agent shall be required by any applicable Requirement of Law to deduct any Taxes from such payments, then (i) the Borrower, the Parent, or the Administrative Agent shall, as the case may be, make such deductions, (ii) the Borrower, the Parent, or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Requirements of Law, and (iii) the sum payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after all required deductions for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including deductions for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.16) have been made, the Administrative Agent, the respective Lender or the respective Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made.
Taxes
provided
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability (along with an explanation of the Tax matter involved) delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or an Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by the Borrower or the Parent to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
 
(e) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding Tax (including backup withholding Tax) under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (and the Administrative Agent), at any time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Requirements of Law or as may reasonably be requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to permit such payments to be made without such withholding tax or at a reduced rate.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i) two duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN (or any successor forms) claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii) two duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI (or any successor forms),
(iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate, in substantially the form of , or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent, to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, and that no payments in connection with the Credit Agreement are effectively connected with such Foreign Lender's conduct of a U.S. trade or business and (y) two duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN (or any successor forms),
Exhibit D
(iv) to the extent a Foreign Lender is not the beneficial owner (for example, where the Foreign Lender is a partnership or participating Lender granting a typical participation), an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY, accompanied by a Form W-8ECI, W-8BEN, a certificate in substantially the form of , Form W-9, and/or other certification documents from each beneficial owner, as applicable; or
Exhibit D
(v) any other form prescribed by any applicable Requirement of Law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in U.S. federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by any applicable Requirement of Law to permit the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
Each Foreign Lender shall, from time to time after the initial delivery by such Foreign Lender of the forms described above, whenever a lapse in time or change in such Lender's circumstances renders such forms, certificates or other evidence so delivered obsolete or inaccurate, promptly (1) deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) renewals, amendments or additional or successor forms, properly completed and duly executed by such Foreign Lender, together with any other certificate or statement of exemption required in order to confirm or establish such Foreign Lender's status or that such Foreign Lender is entitled to an exemption from or reduction in U.S. federal withholding tax or (2) notify Administrative Agent and the Borrower of its inability to deliver any such forms, certificates or other evidence.
 
Any Lender that is a United States person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter as prescribed by applicable law or upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), two duly executed and properly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 certifying that it is not subject to backup withholding.
(f) If the Administrative Agent, a Lender or Issuing Bank determines, in its good faith sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section 2.16 shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes which it deems reasonably confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
provided
SECTION 2.17. . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without setoff or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, except payments to be made directly to an Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Setoffs
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
 
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the Issuing Banks hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the applicable Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(c), 2.05(d) or (e), 2.06(b), 2.17(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion and notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender and for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender or each Issuing Bank to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid, and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under such Sections. In the case of each of (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Administrative Agent in its discretion.
SECTION 2.18. . (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
 
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, or if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and if a Commitment is being assigned, each Issuing Bank), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
SECTION 2.19. .
Defaulting Lenders
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
(a) fees shall cease to accrue on the unfunded portion of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.11;
(b) the Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether all Lenders or the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to Section 9.02); that any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender;
provided
(c) if any Swingline Exposure or LC Exposure exists at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of such Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages but only to the extent (x) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitments and (y) the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 are satisfied at such time; and
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrower shall within one (1) Business Day following notice by the Administrative Agent (x) first, prepay such Swingline Exposure and (y) second, cash collateralize such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.05(j) for so long as such LC Exposure is outstanding;
 
(iii) if the Borrower cash collateralizes any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure pursuant to this Section 2.19(c), the Borrower shall not be required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.11(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is cash collateralized;
(iv) if the LC Exposure of the non-Defaulting Lenders is reallocated pursuant to this Section 2.19(c), then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.11(b) shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Applicable Percentages; or
(v) if any Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is neither cash collateralized nor reallocated pursuant to this Section 2.19(c), then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of any Issuing Bank or any Lender hereunder, all facility fees that otherwise would have been payable to such Defaulting Lender (solely with respect to the portion of such Defaulting Lender's Commitment that was utilized by such LC Exposure) and letter of credit fees payable under Section 2.11(b) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure shall be payable to each Issuing Bank until such LC Exposure is cash collateralized and/or reallocated; and
(d) so long as any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.19(c), and participating interests in any such newly issued or increased Letter of Credit or newly made Swingline Loan shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.19(c)(i) (and Defaulting Lenders shall not participate therein).
In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Borrower, each Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders (other than Swingline Loans) as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
SECTION 2.20. .
Incremental Commitments
(a) The Borrower may at any time or from time to time after the Effective Date, by notice to the Administrative Agent, request one or more increases in the amount of the Commitments (each such increase, a ""); that (i) both at the time of any such request and upon the effectiveness of any Incremental Amendment referred to below, (x) no Default shall exist and (y) all representations and warranties in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be true and correct in all material respects and (ii) the aggregate amount of all Commitment Increases pursuant to this Section 2.20, when added to the initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments on the Effective Date, shall not exceed $300,000,000. Each Commitment Increase shall be in an aggregate principal amount that is not less than $10,000,000 ( that such amount may be less than $10,000,000 if such amount represents all remaining availability under the limit set forth in the next sentence). Each notice from the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall set forth the requested amount and proposed terms of the relevant Commitment Increase. Commitment Increases may be provided by any existing Lender or by any other bank or other financial institution (any such other bank or other financial institution being called an ""); that the
Commitment Increase
provided
provided
Additional Lender
provided
 
Administrative Agent shall have consented (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) to such Lender's or Additional Lender's providing such Commitment Increases if such consent would be required under Section 9.04 for an assignment of Revolving Loans or Commitments, as applicable, to such Lender or Additional Lender. Commitments in respect of Commitment Increases shall become Commitments (or in the case of a Commitment Increase to be provided by an existing Lender, an increase in such Lender's Commitment) under this Agreement pursuant to an amendment (an "") to this Agreement, executed by the Parent, the Borrower, each Lender agreeing to provide such Commitment Increase, if any, each Additional Lender, if any, and the Administrative Agent. The Incremental Amendment may, without the consent of any other Lenders, effect such amendments to this Agreement as may be necessary or appropriate, in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, to effect the provisions of this Section 2.20. The effectiveness of any Incremental Amendment shall be subject to the satisfaction on the date thereof of each of the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (it being understood that all references to "the occasion of any Borrowing" or "issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit" or similar language in such Section 4.02 shall be deemed to refer to the effective date of such Incremental Amendment) and such other conditions as the parties thereto shall agree. The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Commitment Increases for any purpose not prohibited by this Agreement. No Lender shall be obligated to provide any Commitment Increases, unless it so agrees. Upon each increase in the Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.20, (a) each Lender immediately prior to such increase will automatically and without further act be deemed to have assigned to each Lender providing a portion of the Commitment Increase (each, a "") in respect of such increase, and each such Commitment Increase Lender will automatically and without further act be deemed to have assumed, a portion of such Lender's participations hereunder in outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans such that, after giving effect to each such deemed assignment and assumption of participations, the percentage of the aggregate outstanding (i) participations hereunder in Letters of Credit and (ii) participations hereunder in Swingline Loans held by each Lender (including each such Commitment Increase Lender) will equal the percentage of the aggregate Commitments of all Lenders represented by such Lender's Commitment and (b) if, on the date of such increase, there are any Revolving Loans outstanding, such Revolving Loans shall on or prior to the effectiveness of such Commitment Increase be prepaid from the proceeds of additional Revolving Loans made hereunder (reflecting such increase in Commitments), which prepayment shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the Revolving Loans being prepaid and any costs incurred by any Lender in accordance with Section 2.15. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that the minimum borrowing, pro rata borrowing and pro rata payment requirements contained elsewhere in this Agreement shall not apply to the transactions effected pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
Incremental Amendment
Commitment Increase Lender
(b) This Section 2.20 shall supersede any provisions in Section 2.17 or 9.02 to the contrary.
 
Each of the Parent and the Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
SECTION 3.01. . Each of the Parent, the Borrower, each Loan Party and each of their respective Material Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers
SECTION 3.02. . The Transactions are within each Loan Party's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. Each Loan Document has been duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party party thereto, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability
SECTION 3.03. . The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of any Loan Party, (c) will not violate any material applicable law or regulation or order of any Governmental Authority in any material respect, (d) will not violate or result in a default under any material agreement or instrument binding upon the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries or assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries, and (e) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts
SECTION 3.04. . (a) The Parent has heretofore furnished to the Administrative Agent (acting on behalf of the Lenders) its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Effect; Solvency
(b) Since December 31, 2009, there has been no event, occurrence or development that, individually or in the aggregate, has had a Material Adverse Effect.
(c) As of the Effective Date, the Parent, taken together with its Subsidiaries, is Solvent.
SECTION 3.05. . (a) Each of Parent, the Borrower and their respective Material Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for defects in title that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Properties
(b) Each of Parent, the Borrower and their respective Material Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Parent, the Borrower and their respective Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
SECTION 3.06. .
Litigation and Environmental Matters
(a) There are (x) no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Parent or the Borrower, threatened against or affecting the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries or (y) any laws, regulations or orders enacted or implemented by any Governmental Authority (including those enacted or implemented but which provide for prospective application after the passage of time) (i) that would reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that involve this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or the Transactions.
(b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Parent nor any of its Subsidiaries has (i) failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) any Environmental Liability or (iii) received written notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability, and neither the Parent nor the Borrower knows of any reasonable basis for any Environmental Liability.
SECTION 3.07. . Each of the Parent and its Material Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all Contractual Obligations binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
Compliance with Laws and Contractual Obligations
SECTION 3.08. . (a) All proceeds of the Loans will be utilized for the general corporate and working capital purposes of the Parent, the Borrower and their respective Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations; Investment Company Status
(b) Neither the making of any Loan hereunder or issuance of any Letter of Credit, nor the use of the proceeds thereof, will violate or be inconsistent with the provisions of Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X, and no part of the proceeds of any Loan or any Letter of Credit will be used to purchase or carry any Margin Stock or to extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock. Not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Parent, the Borrower and their respective Subsidiaries is represented by Margin Stock.
(c) None of the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries is an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. No Loan Party is subject to regulation under any Requirement of Law (other than Regulation X of the Board) that limits its ability to incur Indebtedness.
SECTION 3.09. . Each of the Parent, the Borrower and their Material Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Parent, the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
SECTION 3.10. . No ERISA Event has occurred that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events that have occurred, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA
 
SECTION 3.11. . As of the Effective Date, each of the Parent and the Borrower has disclosed to the Lenders all material agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Material Subsidiaries is subject. Neither the Information Memorandum nor any of the other reports, financial statements, certificates or other information furnished by or on behalf of the Parent or the Borrower in writing to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) (in each case, as taken as a whole) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, each of the Parent and the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time, it being recognized by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that such projected financial information should not be viewed as facts, and that actual results will differ from such projected financial information and such differences may be material.
Disclosure
provided
SECTION 4.01. . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received the written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, counsel for the Parent and the Borrower, substantially in the form of ;
Exhibit B
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Parent and the Borrower, and the authorization of the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced a reasonable time prior to the Effective Date, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
(f) On or prior to the Effective Date, all material governmental, regulatory and third party approvals necessary to consummate the financing transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and for the continuing operations of the Parent and its Subsidiaries (including the Borrower) taken as a whole, shall have been obtained and remain in full force and effect.
 
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Parent, the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of each Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 9.02) at or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on April 30, 2010 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time).
SECTION 4.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of each Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
(a) The representations and warranties made by any Loan Party in or pursuant to the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable (except to the extent any such representation or warranty speaks only as of a previous date, in which case it was true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date).
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Parent and the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 4.02.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, each of the Parent and the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01. . Each of the Parent and the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent (acting on behalf of each Lender):
Financial Statements; Ratings Change and Other Information
(a) within 100 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Parent, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Parent, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
 
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Parent (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) certifying compliance with Section 6.04 for the applicable period and setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating such compliance and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
(d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries with the SEC, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of the SEC, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by any of the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries to its shareholders generally, as the case may be;
(e) reasonably promptly after Moody's or S&P shall have announced a change in the rating established or deemed to have been established for the Index Debt, written notice of such rating change; and
(f) reasonably promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) may reasonably request.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent the Parent or the Borrower files the information and reports referred to in clause (d) above with the SEC and such information is publicly available on the Internet, the Parent and the Borrower shall be deemed to be in compliance with its obligations to furnish such information and reports to the Administrative Agent pursuant to clause (d).
SECTION 5.02. . The Parent and the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent within 5 days of knowledge of an executive officer of the Parent or the Borrower written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Parent or any Subsidiary that is likely to be determined in a manner adverse to such entity and, if adversely determined, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
(d) any other development that results in, or would reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section 5.02 shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower or the Parent setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03. . Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of the business, taken as a whole; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03.
Existence; Conduct of Business
provided
SECTION 5.04. . Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, would result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Parent, the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations
SECTION 5.05. . Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain insurance in such amounts and against such risks as is consistent with its past practice.
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance
SECTION 5.06. . Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which entries that are full, true and correct in all material respects, taken as a whole, are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with the executive officers and independent accountants of the Parent, all at such reasonable times and intervals and as often as reasonably requested.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights
SECTION 5.07. . Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws (including Environmental Laws), rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all Contractual Obligations binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws and Contractual Obligations
SECTION 5.08. . The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate and working capital purposes of the Parent and its Subsidiaries. No part of the proceeds of any Loan or Letter of Credit will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. After application of the proceeds of any Loan or Letter of Credit, not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Parent, the Borrower and their respective Subsidiaries will be represented by Margin Stock.
Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit
 
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, each of the Parent and the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01. . Each of the Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien to secure Indebtedness for borrowed money (i) upon any Equity Interests issued by any of their respective Subsidiaries that owns any Principal Facility to the extent such shares are owned by the Parent, the Borrower or one or more of their respective Subsidiaries, or (ii) upon any Principal Facility, in either case without making effective provision whereby all the Obligations or, in respect of Liens upon any Principal Facility owned or leased by the Parent, the Guaranteed Obligations of the Parent under the Parent Guaranty shall be directly secured equally and ratably with the Indebtedness secured by such Lien, so long as any such Indebtedness shall be so secured, except:
Liens
(a) in the case of a Principal Facility, Liens incurred in connection with the issuance by a state or political subdivision thereof of any securities the interest on which is exempt from federal income taxes by virtue of Section 103 of the Code or any other laws or regulations in effect at the time of such issuance;
(b) any Lien on any property or asset of the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries existing on the date hereof;
(c) Liens on property or shares of Equity Interests existing when acquired by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary (including acquisition through merger, share exchange or consolidation) or securing the payment of all or part of the purchase price, construction or improvement thereof incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after the later of the acquisition, completion of construction or improvement or commencement of full operation of such property for the purpose of financing all or a portion of such purchase or construction or improvement;
(d) Liens for the sole purpose of extending, renewing or replacing in whole or in part the Indebtedness secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) through (c) or in this clause (d); , however, that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property which secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property); and
provided
(e) other Liens, that the Indebtedness secured thereby, the aggregate Value of the Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted by the provisions of Section 6.03(b), does not at the time exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
provided
plus
 
SECTION 6.02.
Fundamental Changes.
(a) Neither the Parent nor the Borrower will consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Parent and its Subsidiaries substantially as an entirety to any Person unless:
(i) the Successor Entity formed by such consolidation or into which the Borrower or the Parent, as applicable, is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Parent and its Subsidiaries substantially as an entirety shall be an entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an assignment and assumption agreement, executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent, in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the due and punctual payment of all Obligations (including the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all Loans) and the performance of every covenant of this Agreement and any Guarantee on the part of the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be, to be performed or observed;
(ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(iii) the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be, has delivered to the Administrative Agent an officers' certificate signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower or the Parent, as applicable, and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such assignment and assumption agreement comply with this Section 6.02(a) and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
(b) Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Parent and its Subsidiaries substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 6.02(a), the Successor Entity formed by such consolidation or into which the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be, is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be, under this Agreement, with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be, herein and thereafter the predecessor entity shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Agreement, and, in the event of any such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer, the Borrower or the Parent, as the case may be, as the predecessor entity may thereupon or at any time thereafter be dissolved, wound up, or liquidated.
SECTION 6.03. . (a) Neither the Parent nor the Borrower will, nor will permit any Subsidiary to, sell or transfer a Principal Facility now owned or hereafter acquired with the intention of taking back a lease of such property, except a lease for a temporary period of less than 3 years, including renewals, with the intent that the use by the Parent, the Borrower or such Subsidiary will be discontinued on or before the expiration of such period (any transaction subject to the provisions of this Section 6.03(a) being herein referred to as a ""), unless the Borrower shall apply an amount equal to the value of the property so leased to the retirement (other than any mandatory retirement), within 180 days of the effective date of any such arrangement, of non-subordinated Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Borrower which had a stated maturity of more than one year from the date of its creation.
Sale and Leaseback Transactions
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 6.03(a), the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries may enter into a Sale and Leaseback Transaction which would otherwise be prohibited by Section 6.03(a); that the aggregate Value of all such Sale and Leaseback Transactions the aggregate Indebtedness permitted to be secured under the provisions of Section 6.01(e) does not at the time exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
provided
plus
 
SECTION 6.04. .
Financial Condition Covenants
(a) . The Parent and the Borrower will not permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Parent to exceed 2.25:1.00.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
(b) . The Parent and the Borrower will not permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Parent to be less than 3.00:1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
SECTION 6.05. . The Parent will not permit any of its Subsidiaries (other than the Borrower and any Subsidiary Guarantor) to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon the ability of any such Subsidiary (x) to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any of its Equity Interests or to make or repay loans or advances to the Parent, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary Guarantor or to Guarantee Indebtedness of the Parent, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary Guarantor or (y) transfer any of its properties or assets to the Parent, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary Guarantor; provided that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or rule, regulation or order or by this Agreement or any other Loan Document; (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof or any extension, renewal, amendment or modification of any such restriction or condition (in each case, as long as such extension, renewal, amendment or modification is no more restrictive with respect to such restrictions and conditions taken as a whole than those contained in the restrictions and conditions prior to such extension, renewal, amendment or modification); (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of assets (including Equity Interests) pending such sale, provided such restrictions and conditions apply only to the assets that are to be sold and such sale is not prohibited hereunder; (iv) the foregoing shall not apply to any agreement or other instrument of a Person acquired by the Parent or any Subsidiary that was in existence at the time of such acquisition (but not created in contemplation thereof or to provide all or any portion of the funds or credit support utilized to consummate such acquisition), which restriction or condition is not applicable to any Person, or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person or its Subsidiaries, or the property or assets of the Person or its Subsidiaries so acquired; (v) the foregoing shall not apply to Indebtedness secured by a Lien not otherwise prohibited hereunder that limits the right of the debtor to dispose of the assets securing such Indebtedness; (vi) the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in joint venture agreements and other similar agreements relating solely to such joint venture entered into in the ordinary course of business; (vii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions contained in leases, licenses and other similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business that impose restrictions of the type described in clause (y) above on the property subject to such lease; (viii) clause (y) of the foregoing shall not apply to transfer restrictions in the Existing Indenture or any other indenture or loan agreement, so long as the transfer restrictions in such other indenture or loan agreement are no more burdensome than those appearing in the Existing Indenture as in effect on the Effective Date; (ix) clause (y) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions contained in any documentation governing any Sale and Leaseback Transaction not prohibited by this Agreement, so long as such restriction is applicable only to the assets pledged pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction; and (x) clause (y) of the foregoing shall not apply to any agreements governing any purchase money Liens or Capital Lease Obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business and not otherwise prohibited hereby (in which case, any prohibition or limitation shall only be effective against the assets financed thereby).
Restrictive Agreements
 
SECTION 6.06. . The Parent will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to incur Indebtedness for borrowed money or Guarantee thereof (including any Guarantee by a Subsidiary of the Parent (other than the Borrower) of Indebtedness of the Parent or the Borrower) other than (i) Indebtedness of the Borrower, (ii) Indebtedness of a Subsidiary of the Parent owed to the Parent or another Subsidiary of the Parent, (iii) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary permitted to be secured by a Lien pursuant to Section 6.01, (iv) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary arising out of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction permitted pursuant to Section 6.03, and (v) Indebtedness having an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $100,000,000.
Subsidiary Indebtedness
SECTION 6.07. . The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, cause (i) its or any of its Subsidiaries' fiscal years to end on any day other than December 31 of each calendar year and (ii) its or any of its Subsidiaries' fiscal quarters to end on any day other than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each calendar year.
End of Fiscal Years; Fiscal Quarters
If any of the following events (each, an "") shall occur:
Event of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article VII) payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of ten Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by any Loan Party in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder or thereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) the Borrower or the Parent shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to the Parent's and Borrower's existence only) or 5.08 or in Article VI;
(e) the Borrower or the Parent shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article VII), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after written notice thereof from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders to the Parent or the Borrower;
(f) the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest in respect of any Material Indebtedness when and as the same shall become due and payable and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Material Indebtedness ;
 
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $50,000,000 shall be rendered against the Parent, the Borrower, any Material Subsidiary or any combination thereof (excluding any amount paid or covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer has been notified of such judgment and has not denied coverage) and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed by reason of pending appeal or otherwise, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, would result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(m) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(n) any Guarantee Agreement shall cease to be in full force or effect as to any Guarantor, or any Guarantor shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under its Guarantee Agreement, except, in any such case, where such Guarantor has been released from the applicable Guarantee Agreement in accordance with the terms thereof;
 
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Parent or the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article VII), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Parent or the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Parent and the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Parent or the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article VII, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Parent and the Borrower.
Each of the Lenders and each Issuing Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Parent, the Borrower or any of their respective Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Parent, the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with any Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth in any Loan Document, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere in any Loan Document, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Parent or the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower (not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article VIII and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each of the financial institutions named as "Syndication Agent", "Joint Bookrunner", "Joint Lead Arranger" and "Co-Documentation Agent" on the cover page of this Agreement is named as such for recognition purposes only, and in its capacity as such shall have no powers, duties, responsibilities or liabilities with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby; it being understood and agreed that each such financial institution in its stated capacity shall be entitled to all indemnification and reimbursement rights in favor of the Administrative Agent as, and to the extent, provided for under this Article VIII and Section 9.03. Without limitation of the foregoing, no such financial institution shall, solely by reason of this Agreement or any other Loan Party, have any fiduciary relationship in respect of any Lender or any other Person.
 
SECTION 9.01. . (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(i) if to the Borrower or the Parent, to it at 714 Green Valley Road, Greensboro, NC 27408-7018, Attention of General Counsel (Telecopy No. (336) 335-7707);
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Investment Bank Loan Operations, 1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of John Ngo (Telecopy No. (713) 750-2956), with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 383 Madison Avenue, 24th Floor, New York, NY 10179, Attention of Lauren Baker (Telecopy No. (212) 270-6637);
(iii) if to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as Issuing Bank, to it at 10420 Highland Manor Drive, Floor 4, Tampa, FL 33610-9128, Attention of Letter of Credit Department (Telecopy No. (813) 432-5162);
(iv) if to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., in its capacity as Issuing Bank, to it at Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Specialized Loans, 7711 Plantation Road, Roanoke, VA 24019 (Telecopy No. (704) 715-0099);
(v) if to the Swingline Lender, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Investment Bank Loan Operations, 1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor, Houston, TX 77002, Attention of John Ngo (Telecopy No. (713) 750-2956); and
(vi) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
(b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower or the Parent may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
provided
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by written notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
 
SECTION 9.02. . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders hereunder or under any other Loan Document are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of any Loan Document or consent to any departure by the Parent or the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section 9.02, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments
(b) Neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Parent, the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Parent, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.17(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, or (v) change any of the provisions of this Section 9.02(b) or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the prior written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall (i) amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder or (ii) waive, amend or modify Section 2.19, without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be.
provided
provided
further
SECTION 9.03. . (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by each Lead Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Lead Agents (and, if advisable in the reasonable judgment of the Lead Agents, of one local counsel in any relevant jurisdiction), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by each Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section 9.03, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
 
(b) The Parent and the Borrower shall jointly and severally indemnify each Lead Agent, each Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee (other than the allocated costs of in-house counsel), incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and whether or not any Indemnitee is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding is brought by or on behalf of any Loan Party; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or a material breach of any Loan Document by such Indemnitee.
Indemnitee
provided
(c) To the extent that the Parent or the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to a Lead Agent, an Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to such Lead Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against such Lead Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, each of the Parent and the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any other Loan Document, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(e) All amounts due under this Section 9.03 shall be payable not later than 30 days after the receipt of a reasonably detailed invoice therefor.
(f) For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 9.03 shall not apply to any Taxes.
SECTION 9.04. . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) neither the Parent nor the Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Parent or the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section 9.04. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section 9.04) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
 
(b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of:
(A) the Borrower, that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee;
provided
(B) the Administrative Agent; that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment of any Commitment to an assignee that is a Lender with a Commitment immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment;
provided
(C) the Swingline Lender; and
(D) each Issuing Bank.
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Loans, the amount of the Commitment or Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement;
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; and
(D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more "Credit Contacts" to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower, the Parent and their related parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws.
 
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section 9.04, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section 9.04.
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount (and related interest amounts) of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Parent, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Parent, the Borrower, any Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in this Section 9.04(b) and any written consent to such assignment required by this Section 9.04(b), the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(c), 2.05(d) or (e), 2.06(b), 2.17(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
provided
(vi) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 2.16 or the definitions of Excluded Taxes, Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, to the extent that an assignment of all or any portion of a Lender's Commitment or Loans pursuant to this Section 9.04(b) would, at the time of such assignment, result in any increased costs under Section 2.16 from those being charged by the respective assigning Lender prior to such assignment, then the Borrower shall not be obligated to pay such increased costs.
(c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Parent, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Parent, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a
Participant
provided
 
Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that requires the affirmative consent of such Lender. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section 9.04, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the obligation to provide documentation pursuant to Section 2.16(e)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 9.04. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.17(c) as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as a non-fiduciary agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amount (and related interest amounts) of each Participant's interest in the Loans held by it (the ""). The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of the participation in question for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.
provided
provided
Participant Register
(d) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.16(e) as though it were a Lender.
(e) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
SECTION 9.05. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Parent or the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
 
SECTION 9.06. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
SECTION 9.07. . Any provision of any Loan Document held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of such Loan Document; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
SECTION 9.08. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Parent or the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Parent or the Borrower, as applicable, now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
SECTION 9.09. . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(b) Each of the Parent and the Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to any Loan Document, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document against the Parent, the Borrower or their respective properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each of the Parent and the Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 9.09. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
 
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document will affect the right of any party hereto or thereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
SECTION 9.10. . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 9.10.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
SECTION 9.11. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
SECTION 9.12. . (a) Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (i) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (ii) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (iii) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (iv) to any other party to this Agreement, (v) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (vi) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section 9.12, to (A) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (B) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Parent, the Borrower and its obligations, (vii) with the written consent of the Borrower or the Parent or (viii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section 9.12 or (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Parent or the Borrower. For the purposes of this Section 9.12, "" means all information received from the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Parent, the Borrower or their business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Parent or the Borrower or such Subsidiary. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section 9.12 shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. Unless specifically prohibited by applicable law or court order, each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall, prior to disclosure thereof, make reasonable efforts to notify the Borrower of any request for disclosure of any such non-public information by any governmental agency or representative thereof (other than any such request in connection with an examination of the financial condition of such Lender by such governmental agency) or pursuant to legal process.
Confidentiality
Information
 
(b) EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION AS DEFINED IN SECTION 9.
12(a)
FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE PARENT, THE BORROWER AND THEIR RESPECTIVE RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
(c) ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE PARENT, THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE PARENT, THE BORROWER AND THEIR RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER REPRESENTS TO THE PARENT, THE BORROWER AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW.
SECTION 9.13. . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
SECTION 9.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "") hereby notifies the Borrower and the Parent that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower and the Parent, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and the Parent and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower and the Parent in accordance with the Patriot Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
Patriot Act
 
SECTION 9.15. . The Administrative Agent, each Lead Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this Section 9.15, the "Lenders"), may have economic interests that conflict with those of the Borrower, its stockholders and/or its affiliates. The Borrower agrees that nothing in the Loan Documents or otherwise will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary or other implied duty between any Lender, on the one hand, and the Borrower, its stockholders or its affiliates, on the other. The Loan Parties acknowledge and agree that (i) the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents (including the exercise of rights and remedies hereunder and thereunder) are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other, and (ii) in connection therewith and with the process leading thereto, (x) no Lender has assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower, its stockholders or its affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby (or the exercise of rights or remedies with respect thereto) or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether any Lender has advised, is currently advising or will advise the Borrower, its stockholders or its affiliates on other matters) or any other obligation to the Borrower except the obligations expressly set forth in the Loan Documents and (y) each Lender is acting solely as principal and not as the agent or fiduciary of the Borrower, its management, stockholders, creditors or any other Person. The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that the Borrower has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate and that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment with respect to such transactions and the process leading thereto. The Borrower agrees that it will not claim that any Lender has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to the Borrower, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
No Fiduciary Duty
SECTION 10.01. . In order to induce the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to extend credit hereunder and, in recognition of the direct benefits to be received by the Parent from the proceeds of the Loans and the issuance of the Letters of Credit, the Parent hereby agrees as follows: the Parent hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as primary obligor and not merely as surety the full and prompt payment when due, whether upon maturity, acceleration or otherwise, of any and all of the Guaranteed Obligations to the Guaranteed Creditors. If any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations to the Guaranteed Creditors becomes due and payable hereunder, the Parent unconditionally promises to pay such indebtedness to the Guaranteed Creditors, or order, on demand, together with any and all expenses which may be incurred by the Guaranteed Creditors in collecting any of the Guaranteed Obligations. This Parent Guaranty is a guaranty of payment and not of collection. This Parent Guaranty is a continuing one and all liabilities to which it applies or may apply under the terms hereof shall be conclusively presumed to have been created in reliance hereon. If claim is ever made upon any Guaranteed Creditor for repayment or recovery of any amount or amounts received in payment or on account of any of the Guaranteed Obligations and any of the aforesaid payees repays all or part of said amount by reason of (i) any judgment, decree or order of any court or administrative body having jurisdiction over such payee or any of its property or (ii) any settlement or compromise of any such claim effected by such payee with any such claimant (including the Borrower), then and in such event the Parent agrees that any such judgment, decree, order, settlement or compromise shall be binding upon the Parent, notwithstanding any revocation of this Parent Guaranty or any other instrument evidencing any liability of the Borrower, and the Parent shall be and remain liable to the aforesaid payees hereunder for the amount so repaid or recovered to the same extent as if such amount had never originally been received by any such payee.
The Parent Guaranty
SECTION 10.02. . Additionally, the Parent unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees the payment of any and all of the Guaranteed Obligations to the Guaranteed Creditors whether or not due or payable by the Borrower upon the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII, and unconditionally promises to pay such indebtedness to the Guaranteed Creditors, or order, on demand.
Bankruptcy
 
SECTION 10.03. . The liability of the Parent hereunder is exclusive and independent of any guaranty of the Guaranteed Obligations whether executed by the Parent, any other guarantor or by any other party, and the liability of the Parent hereunder is not affected or impaired by (a) any direction as to application of payment by the Borrower or by any other party, or (b) any other continuing or other guaranty, undertaking or maximum liability of a guarantor or of any other party as to the Guaranteed Obligations, or (c) any payment on or in reduction of any such other guaranty or undertaking, or (d) any dissolution, termination or increase, decrease or change in personnel by the Borrower, or (e) any payment made to the Guaranteed Creditors on the Guaranteed Obligations which any such Guaranteed Creditor repays to the Borrower pursuant to court order in any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, moratorium or other debtor relief proceeding, and the Parent waives any right to the deferral or modification of its obligations hereunder by reason of any such proceeding, or (f) any action or inaction of the type described in Section 10.05, or (g) the lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document relating hereto.
Nature of Liability
SECTION 10.04. . No invalidity, irregularity or unenforceability of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations shall affect, impair or be a defense to this Parent Guaranty, and this Parent Guaranty shall be primary, absolute and unconditional notwithstanding the occurrence of any event or the existence of any other circumstances which might constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor except payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations of the Parent. The obligations of the Parent hereunder are independent of the obligations of the Borrower, any other guarantor or any other Person and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against the Parent whether or not action is brought against the Borrower, any other guarantor or any other Person and whether or not the Borrower, any other guarantor or any other Person be joined in any such action or actions. The Parent waives, to the full extent permitted by law, the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting its liability hereunder or the enforcement thereof. Any payment by the Borrower with respect to any Guaranteed Obligations or other circumstance which operates to toll any statute of limitations as to the Borrower shall operate to toll the statute of limitations as to the Parent.
Independent Obligation
SECTION 10.05. . The Parent authorizes the Guaranteed Creditors without notice or demand (except as shall be required by applicable statute and cannot be waived), and without affecting or impairing its liability hereunder, from time to time to:
Authorization
(i) change the manner, place or terms of payment of, and/or change, increase or extend the time of payment of, renew, increase, accelerate or alter, any of the Guaranteed Obligations (including, without limitation, any increase or decrease in the rate of interest thereon or the principal amount thereof) or any liability incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof, and this Parent Guaranty shall apply to the Guaranteed Obligations as so changed, extended, renewed, increased or altered;
(ii) exercise or refrain from exercising any rights against the Borrower or others or otherwise act or refrain from acting;
(iii) release or substitute any one or more endorsers, guarantors, the Borrower or other obligors;
(iv) settle or compromise any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any liability (including any of those hereunder) incurred directly or indirectly in respect thereof or hereof, and may subordinate the payment of all or any part thereof to the payment of any liability (whether due or not) of the Borrower to their respective creditors other than the Guaranteed Creditors;
 
(v) apply any sums by whomsoever paid or howsoever realized to any liability or liabilities of the Borrower to the Guaranteed Creditors regardless of what liability or liabilities of the Borrower remain unpaid;
(vi) consent to or waive any breach of, or any act, omission or default under, this Agreement, any other Loan Document, or any of the agreements, instruments or documents referred to herein, or otherwise amend, modify or supplement this Agreement, such other Loan Documents or any such agreements, instruments or documents;
(vii) act or fail to act in any manner which may deprive the Parent of its right to subrogation against the Borrower to recover full indemnity for any payments made pursuant to this Parent Guaranty; and/or
(viii) take any other action which would, under otherwise applicable principles of common law, give rise to a legal or equitable discharge of the Parent from its liabilities under this Parent Guaranty.
SECTION 10.06. . It is not necessary for the Guaranteed Creditors to inquire into the capacity or powers of the Borrower or the officers, directors, partners or agents acting or purporting to act on its behalf, and any Guaranteed Obligations made or created in reliance upon the professed exercise of such powers shall be guaranteed hereunder by the Parent.
Reliance
SECTION 10.07. . Any of the indebtedness of the Borrower now or hereafter owing to the Parent is hereby subordinated to the Guaranteed Obligations of the Borrower owing to the Guaranteed Creditors; and if the Administrative Agent so requests at a time when an Event of Default exists, all such indebtedness of the Borrower to the Parent shall be collected, enforced and received by the Parent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Creditors and be paid over to the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Guaranteed Creditors on account of the Guaranteed Obligations of the Borrower to the Guaranteed Creditors, but without affecting or impairing in any manner the liability of the Parent under the other provisions of this Parent Guaranty. Prior to the transfer by the Parent to any Person of any note or negotiable instrument evidencing any of the indebtedness of the Borrower to the Parent, the Parent shall mark such note or negotiable instrument with a legend that the same is subject to this subordination. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Parent hereby agrees with the Guaranteed Creditors that it will not exercise any right of subrogation which it may at any time otherwise have as a result of this Parent Guaranty (whether contractual, under Section 509 of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise) until all Guaranteed Obligations have been irrevocably paid in full in cash.
Subordination
SECTION 10.08. .
Waiver
(a) The Parent waives any right (except as shall be required by applicable statute and cannot be waived) to require any Guaranteed Creditor to (i) proceed against the Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party, (ii) proceed against or exhaust any security held from the Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party or (iii) pursue any other remedy in any Guaranteed Creditor's power whatsoever. The Parent waives any defense based on or arising out of any defense of the Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party, other than payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations, based on or arising out of the disability of the Borrower, any other guarantor or any other party, or the unenforceability of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof from any cause, or the cessation from any cause of the liability of the Borrower other than payment in full in cash of the Guaranteed Obligations. The Guaranteed Creditors may, at their election, foreclose on any security held by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Creditor by one or more judicial or nonjudicial sales, whether or not every aspect of any such sale is commercially reasonable (to the extent such sale is permitted by applicable law), or exercise any other right or remedy the Guaranteed Creditors may have against the Borrower or any other party, or any security, without affecting or impairing in any way the liability of the Parent hereunder except to the extent the Guaranteed Obligations have been paid in full in cash. The Parent waives any defense arising out of any such election by the Guaranteed Creditors, even though such election operates to impair or extinguish any right of reimbursement or subrogation or other right or remedy of the Borrower against any Guaranteed Party or any other party or any security.
 
(b) The Parent waives all presentments, demands for performance, protests and notices, including, without limitation, notices of nonperformance, notices of protest, notices of dishonor, notices of acceptance of this Parent Guaranty, and notices of the existence, creation, modification or incurring of new or additional Guaranteed Obligations. The Parent assumes all responsibility for being and keeping itself informed of the Borrower's financial condition and assets, and of all other circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of the Guaranteed Obligations and the nature, scope and extent of the risks which the Parent assumes and incurs hereunder, and agrees that the Guaranteed Creditors shall have no duty to advise the Parent of information known to it regarding such circumstances or risks.
(c) Until such time as the Guaranteed Obligations have been paid in full in cash, the Parent hereby waives all rights of subrogation which it may at any time otherwise have as a result of this Parent Guaranty (whether contractual, under Section 509 of the Bankruptcy Code, or otherwise) to the claims of the Guaranteed Creditors against any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations and all contractual, statutory or common law rights of reimbursement, contribution or indemnity from the Borrower or any other guarantor which it may at any time otherwise have as a result of this Parent Guaranty.
SECTION 10.09. . All payments made by the Parent pursuant to this Article X shall be made in dollars. All payments made by the Parent pursuant to this Article X will be made without setoff, counterclaim or other defense, and shall be subject to the payment provisions applicable to the Borrower in Sections 2.15 and 2.16.
Payments
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including any letters of credit, guarantees, and swingline loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
6. Assigned Interest:
Effective Date:  _____, 20_____  [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                    
The Assignee agrees to deliver to the Administrative Agent a completed Administrative Questionnaire in which the Assignee designates one or more Credit Contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Parent, the Borrower and their Related Parties or their respective securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the Assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws.
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement, (iii) the financial condition of the Parent, the Borrower, any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement or (iv) the performance or observance by the Parent Borrower, any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions


