FILE:LO/LO-8K-20110105122148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
On January 5, 2011, the Board of Directors of Lorillard, Inc. ("Lorillard") elected Dianne Neal Blixt to the Board of Directors as a Class III director. Ms. Blixt will serve on the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors made an affirmative determination that Ms. Blixt is an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards. There are no related party transactions between Ms. Blixt and Lorillard and no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Ms. Blixt was selected as a director. Ms. Blixt will be granted a 2011 annual non-executive director equity retainer valued at $100,000 on January 5, 2011 and will receive the non-executive director compensation as set forth under "Director Compensation" in Lorillard's 2010 Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 5, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference. The annual non-executive director equity retainer is granted in the form of restricted stock with the number of shares of restricted stock determined by dividing the amount of the annual non-executive director equity retainer by the closing price of our Common Stock on the date of grant (rounding up to the nearest whole share). The restricted stock vests in full on the first anniversary of the date of grant if the director continues to serve as a director on such date (or on the earlier of the death or disability of such director). A copy of the press release issued by Lorillard announcing Ms. Blixt's election to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Form 8-K") and is incorporated herein in its entirety.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
(Registrant)
LORILLARD, INC.
By: David H. Taylor Executive Vice President, Finance and Planning and Chief Financial Officer
s/ David H. Taylor                                       
/
Dated: January 5, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
GREENSBORO, NC, January 5, 2011Lorillard, Inc. (NYSE:LO), the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States, today announced the election of Dianne Neal Blixt to its Board of Directors, effective immediately. The Board is now comprised of eight members, seven of whom are non-executive independent Directors. Ms. Blixt will serve on the Company's Audit Committee.
"We are delighted that Dianne has joined our Board. She brings extensive financial and strategic experience within the tobacco industry to our Board's already broad range of talents," said Murray S. Kessler, Chairman, President and CEO of Lorillard, Inc. "We look forward to Dianne's contributions as we work against our goal to deliver double digit shareholder returns over the long term."
Dianne Neal Blixt served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Reynolds American Inc. from 2004 until her retirement in December 2007. During that time, Ms. Blixt led major initiatives to strengthen financial performance and significantly increase shareholder value. Ms. Blixt had been with Reynolds American and its subsidiaries since 1988. She is also a board member for the Reynolda House Museum of American Art, the UNC Greensboro Bryan School MBA program and Summit School.
About Lorillard, Inc.
Lorillard, Inc. (NYSE: LO) is the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States. Founded in 1760, Lorillard is the oldest continuously operating tobacco company in the U.S. Newport, Lorillard's flagship menthol-flavored premium cigarette brand, is the top selling menthol and second largest selling cigarette in the U.S. In addition to Newport, the Lorillard product line has four additional brand families marketed under the Kent, True, Maverick, and Old Gold brand names. These five brands include 43 different product offerings which vary in price, taste, flavor, length and packaging. Lorillard maintains its headquarters and manufactures all of its products in Greensboro, North Carolina.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, or the Reform Act. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "may," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result" and similar expressions. In addition, any statement that may be provided by management concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects and possible actions by Lorillard, Inc. are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Reform Act.
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. Information describing factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is available in Lorillard, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including but not limited to, our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. These filings are available from the SEC over the Internet or in hard copy, and are available on our website at . Forward-looking statements speak only as of the time they are made, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.lorillard.com


