FILE:LO/LO-8K-20121218172639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 18, 2012, Lorillard, Inc. ("Lorillard" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lorillard Tobacco Company, along with other participating manufacturers, has agreed to a term sheet with 17 states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico that resolves disputes under the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement ("MSA") involving payment adjustments relating to nonparticipating manufacturers. Copies of the press release dated December 18, 2012 and letter dated December 17, 2012 to the signatory states to proceed with settlement and term sheet are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K ("Form 8-K").
The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 in this Form 8-K are being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 18, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
, December 18, 2012 Lorillard, Inc. (NYSE: LO), the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States, announced today that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lorillard Tobacco Company, along with other participating manufacturers, has agreed to a term sheet with 17 states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico that resolves disputes under the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) involving payment adjustments relating to nonparticipating manufacturers.
GREENSBORO, NC
The settlement would resolve the claims for the years 2003 through 2012 and would put in place a new method for calculating this adjustment beginning in 2013. Under the terms of the agreement, Lorillard and other manufacturers will receive credits against their future MSA payments over the next five years, and the signatory states will be entitled to receive their allocable share of the amounts currently being held in escrow resulting from these disputes. The term sheet is subject to approval by the arbitration panel presiding over the arbitration of the dispute for 2003.
Lorillard expects to receive credits over the next five years of at least $198 million on its outstanding claims, with the majority of the credits occurring in April 2013 and the remainder over the following four years.
"We are very pleased to have settled this long-standing dispute with the signatory states and believe that it is an equitable resolution for all parties involved," stated Ronald S. Milstein, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Lorillard. "Importantly, today's announcement also puts into place a new method to better determine future adjustments  providing greater clarity for the states and Lorillard."
Under the MSA, the participating manufacturers (PMs) are entitled to reduce their annual MSA payments for lost market share to companies that did not participate in the MSA, subject to certain conditions being met. The PMs are seeking adjustments to their payments for 2003-2012. The 2003 adjustment is currently the subject of an arbitration proceeding between the PMs and many of the MSA states. The arbitration proceeding will continue as to those states that have not settled.
About Lorillard, Inc.
Lorillard, Inc. (NYSE: LO), through its Lorillard Tobacco Company subsidiary, is the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States. Founded in 1760, Lorillard is the oldest continuously operating tobacco company in the U.S. Newport, Lorillard's flagship premium cigarette brand, is the top selling menthol and second largest selling cigarette in the U.S. In addition to Newport, the Lorillard product line has four additional cigarette brand families marketed under the Kent, True, Maverick and Old Gold brand names. These five brands include 39 different product offerings which vary in price, taste, flavor, length and packaging. Lorillard, through its LOEC, Inc. subsidiary, is also the leading electronic cigarette company in the U.S, marketed under the blu eCigs brand. Newport, Kent, True, Maverick, Old Gold and blu eCigs are the registered trademarks of Lorillard and its subsidiaries. Lorillard maintains its headquarters and manufactures all of its traditional cigarette products in Greensboro, North Carolina.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, or the Reform Act. Forward-looking statements include, without
 
limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "may," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result" and similar expressions. In addition, any statement that may be provided by management concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects and possible actions by Lorillard, Inc. are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Reform Act.
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. Information describing factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is available in Lorillard, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including but not limited to, our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. These filings are available from the SEC over the Internet or in hard copy, and are available on our website at www.lorillard.com. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the time they are made, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Direct Number: (312) 269-4368
eleibenstein@jonesday.com
 
VIA E-MAIL
Bradford Phelps
Chief Deputy Attorney General
State of Arkansas, Office of Attorney General
323 Center Street, Suite 200
Little Rock, AR 72201
bradford.phelps@arkansas.gov
David D. Cookson
Chief Deputy Attorney General
State of Nebraska, Office of Attorney General
2115 State Capitol
Lincoln, NE 68509
david.cookson@nebraska.gov
 
Dear Counsel:
I am authorized by the Original Participating Manufacturers to agree: (1) pursuant to Section IV.E of the Term Sheet, that the PMs that have joined the November 14, 2012 Term Sheet to date constitute a critical mass of PMs and that the Settling States that have signed that Term Sheet to date, with an aggregate Allocable Share of approximately 42%, constitute a critical mass of Settling States; and (2) for purposes of Section I.A.2 of the Term Sheet and Appendix A, Paragraph 2(A) of the Term Sheet, joinder by those signatory Settling States with that aggregate Allocable Share qualifies as joinder by Settling States with an aggregate Allocable Share of 50% and gives rise to a Settlement Value Percentage of 46%.
Sincerely,
 
Elli Leibenstein
ATLANTA  -  BEIJING  -  BRUSSELS  -  CHICAGO  -  CLEVELAND  -  COLUMBUS  -  DALLAS  -  DUBAI  -   FRANKFURT  -  HONG KONG  -  HOUSTON IRVINE  -   LONDON  -  LOS ANGELES  -  MADRID  -  MEXICO CITY  -  MILAN  -  MOSCOW  -  MUNICH  -  NEW DELHI  -  NEW YORK  -  PARIS PITTSBURGH  -  SAN DIEGO   -  SAN FRANCISCO  -  SHANGHAI  -  SILICON VALLEY  -  SINGAPORE  -  SYDNEY  -  TAIPEI  -  TOKYO  -  WASHINGTON
 
Accrued claims relating to the NPM Adjustment disputes for 2003 to 2011 and the 2012 NPM Adjustment would be handled as follows:
 
 
 
 
Appendix A sets forth the reference date for determining the aggregate Allocable Share and the increased settlement value applicable to States that sign this Term Sheet after December 14, 2012 (or, in the case of States with December hearing dates, after the start of their hearing).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A:
 
 
 
Except as provided below, the initial sign-on date is December 14, 2012. For Settling States whose individual State diligent enforcement hearing in the 2003 Arbitration is scheduled to begin in December 2012 (WA, AZ and CO), the initial sign-on date is the day preceding the beginning of its hearing unless the beginning of its hearing is deferred until after December 14, 2012. At the present time, WA and AZ have agreed to such deferral, and their initial sign-on date will be December 14, 2012 so long as the Panel approves the deferral.
(B) For Settling States that sign this Term Sheet (or, in the case of Settling States that do not sign this Term Sheet, the final settlement agreement) after the initial sign-on date, the applicable settlement value percentage is 59%. The signatory PMs, in their sole discretion, may waive all or part of the increase above the applicable settlement value percentage under subparagraph (A) as to such a State without triggering the MFN clause in this Term Sheet and without any obligation to provide a similar waiver to any other State.
12
 
 
(C) The Reference Date is December 21, 2012. A Settling State that signs this Term Sheet after the initial sign-on date but by the Reference Date will be counted as part of the aggregate Allocable Share under subparagraph (A) whether or not the signatory PMs waived the increased percentage applicable to such State under subparagraph (B).
 
(B) The amount of the percentage in subparagraph (A)(ii) will be the percentage that, when applied to the OPMs' estimated MSA annual payments due in April 2014-2017 (the estimate being after the Inflation Adjustment, Volume Adjustment and Previously Settled States Reduction, but before the remaining adjustments, reductions and offsets under the MSA), yields a total reduction equal to 50% of the Total OPM Amount. (For example, if 50% of the Total OPM Amount were $1 billion and the OPMs' estimated MSA annual payments for 2014-2017 (as adjusted as specified above) were $5 billion per year, the percentage in subparagraph (A)(ii) would be 5%.) The percentage will be filled in with respect to the MSA annual payment due in April 2014 pursuant to these specifications as of the Reference Date (once the Total OPM Amount is known), subject to change in the event additional Settling States sign this Term Sheet or the final settlement agreement after the Reference Date. With respect to each of the reductions to the MSA annual payments due in April 2015-2017, the percentage will be recalculated annually on October 15 of the year prior to the year the payment is due (for example, on October 15, 2014 for the MSA annual payment due in April 2015) to reflect the percentage that, when applied to an estimate of the OPMs' next annual payment based upon inflation and volume in the first 9 months of the year prior to the year the payment is due, yields a reduction equal to 12.5% of the Total OPM Amount.
14
(C) The final settlement agreement will include provisions that will apply in the event the Total OPM Amount increases after the Auditor's Final Calculation of the MSA annual payment due on April 15, 2013 as a result of increased State
 
 
(D) Each credit and reduction will be allocated among the OPMs as directed by the OPMs.
 
 
 
 
 
 


