FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20030424080247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
FPL Group reports 2003 first quarter earnings
(April 24, 2003) - FPL Group, Inc. (NYSE: FPL) today reported 2003 first quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $175 million, or 99 cents per share, compared with a net loss of $56 million, or 33 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2002. FPL Group's net income for the first quarter 2003 included a net unrealized gain of $3 million after-tax associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-managed hedges. The results for last year's first quarter included an after-tax impairment charge on goodwill of $222 million or $1.31 per share due to the adoption of a new accounting standard (FAS 142), a net unrealized mark-to-market gain of $1 million after-tax associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-managed hedges, and a favorable settlement with the Internal Revenue Service of $30 million or 18 cents per share in the Corporate & Other category.
JUNO BEACH, Fla.
Excluding these items, FPL Group's earnings were $172 million, or 97 cents per share for the first quarter of 2003, compared with $135 million, or 80 cents per share, in the first quarter of 2002. Management views results expressed in this fashion as an important indicator of overall operational performance for the period. "FPL Group continues to execute on its strategy and produce strong results. Our earnings performance was driven both by Florida Power & Light Company and by FPL Energy," said Lew Hay, chairman and chief executive officer of FPL Group. "FPL benefited from strong customer and usage growth and favorable weather, while FPL Energy's growth came primarily from Seabrook Station and new wind projects."
First quarter net income for Florida Power & Light, FPL Group's principal subsidiary, was $135 million or 76 cents per share, up from $118 million or 69 cents per share from the prior year quarterFPL added 93,000 customer accounts, an increase of 2.3 percent over 2002. Retail usage per customer was up 6.9 percent, driven in part by cold weather in January and warm weather in March.
Florida Power & Light
.
"FPL's financial and operational performance in the quarter was excellent, continuing to support why I believe the company is one of the top utilities in the industry," said Hay. "In January we experienced unusually cold weather and recorded an all-time peak of 20,190 megawatts, while in March we experienced one of the warmest months on record and a severe tornado in South Florida. I am proud that our employees and facilities were up to the challenge brought on by these extreme conditions."
Despite a 7 percent reduction to base rates put into place last April, FPL exceeded its revenue target in the quarter due to continued customer growth and increased usage per customer.
FPL Energy
FPL Energy, the unregulated wholesale generation subsidiary of FPL Group, reported first quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $44 million or 25 cents per share including a net unrealized gain of $3 million after-tax associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-managed hedges.
This compares to a net loss of $198 million or a negative $1.17 per share in the prior year quarter. The results for last year's first quarter included a loss of $222 million after-tax or $1.31 per share for an impairment charge related to a goodwill accounting standard change recorded at FPL Energy and a net unrealized mark-to-market gain of $1 million after-tax associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-managed hedges.
Excluding the mark-to-market effect of non-managed hedges and the goodwill accounting change, earnings were $41 million or 23 cents per share compared to $23 million or 13 cents per share in 2002.
New projects were the key driver in FPL Energy's growth. In November 2002, FPL Group acquired an 88.2 percent interest in the 1,161-megawatt Seabrook Station. In addition, 324 megawatts of new wind projects contributed to first quarter growth.
Positive results were somewhat offset by drought conditions impacting its hydro electric facilities in Maine, continued difficult market conditions and a few operational issues. The company also experienced higher interest expenses due to its expanded asset base, somewhat offset by lower general and administrative costs.
"Seabrook Station has improved our portfolio diversity and strengthened our competitive position in the Northeast," Hay said. "From both an operational and earnings perspective it has more than met our expectations. We will continue to focus on improving operating performance at all of our facilities, profitably growing our wind portfolio and completing construction of several natural gas-fired power plant projects."
Earlier this week FPL Energy announced additional wind projects in North Dakota, Oklahoma and Pennsylvania representing nearly 160 megawatts. To date, the company has announced wind projects representing nearly 600 megawatts that will be added to its portfolio by year-end. The company said that with the projects currently underway or in advanced stages of development it now expects to add a total of 700 to 1,000 megawatts of new wind generation to its portfolio by the end of 2003.
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other negatively impacted net income by $4 million or 2 cents per share. FPL FiberNet, an FPL Group subsidiary that provides fiber-optic networks and related services in Florida, contributed net income of $5 million compared to $500,000 in the prior year quarter. The company said it expects FPL FiberNet to be at or near break even in 2003 and anticipates higher corporate expenses resulting in a drag to earnings of 20 to 30 cents per share for the full year.
Outlook for 2003
The company also reconfirmed its earnings guidance for 2003 of $4.80 to $5.00 per share excluding the mark-to-market effect of non-managed hedges, which cannot be determined at this time. "We continue to see strong customer and usage growth at Florida Power & Light and expect earnings of $725 million to $735 million, assuming normal weather." said Hay.
"We also are very pleased with the performance of FPL Energy in the first quarter. With more than 90 percent of expected gross margin already under contract, we remain comfortable with our earnings expectation of $165 million to $190 million excluding the mark-to-market effect of non-managed hedges. FPL Energy will benefit from the full-year impact of Seabrook and more than 300 megawatts of new wind generation added in 2002," Hay added.
FPL Group, with annual revenues of more than $8 billion, is nationally known as a high-quality, efficient, and customer-driven organization focused on energy-related products and services. With a growing presence in 24 states, it is widely recognized as one of the country's premier power companies. Its principal subsidiary, Florida Power & Light Company, serves more than 4 million customer accounts in Florida. FPL Energy, LLC, an FPL Group energy-generating subsidiary, is a leader in producing electricity from clean and renewable fuels. Additional information is available on the Internet at www.fplgroup.com, www.fpl.com and www.fplenergy.com.
Profile
 
 
 
 
 




