FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20050210171640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) and Florida Power & Light Company (FPL) are hereby filing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause FPL Group's or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL in this combined Form 8-K, in presentations, in response to questions or otherwise.  Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, believe, could, estimated, may, plan, potential, projection, target, outlook) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward-looking.  Forward-looking statements involve e stimates, assumptions and uncertainties.  Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could cause FPL Group's or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and FPL Group and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
The following are some important factors that could have a significant impact on FPL Group's and FPL's operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Group's and FPL's actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements:
FPL Group and FPL are subject to changes in laws or regulations, including the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended, and the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Florida Public Service Commission and the utility commissions of other states in which FPL Group has operations, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), with respect to, among other things, allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, operation and construction of transmission facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, return on common equity and equity ratio limits, and present or prospective wholesale and retail compet ition (including but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs).  The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery by FPL of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred.
The regulatory process generally restricts FPL's ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, wildlife mortality, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs.  There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future.
FPL Group and FPL operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including deregulation of the production and sale of electricity.  FPL Group and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing competitive pressure.
FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations could be affected by FPL's ability to renegotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in Florida.
The operation of power generation facilities involves many risks, including start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes), as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency.  This could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses.  Insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including the cost of replacement power.  In addition to these risks, FPL Group's and FPL's nuclear units face certain risks that are unique to the nuclear industry including the ability to store and/or dispose of spent nuclear fuel, as well as additional regulatory actions up to and including shutdown of the units stemming from public safety concerns, whether at FPL Group's and FPL's plants, or at the plants of other nuclear operators.  Breakdown or failure of an FPL Energy, LLC (FPL Energy) operating facility may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages.
FPL Group's and FPL's ability to successfully and timely complete their power generation facilities currently under construction, those projects yet to begin construction or capital improvements to existing facilities is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks.  Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, FPL Group and FPL could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and/or the write-off of their investment in the project or improvement.
FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities.  FPL Group could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or if a counterparty fails to perform.  In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates.  As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.  In addition, FPL's use of such instruments could be subject to prudency challenges and if found imprudent, cost recovery could be disallowed by the FPSC.
There are other risks associated with FPL Group's non-rate regulated businesses, particularly FPL Energy.  In addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk factors specifically affecting FPL Energy's success in competitive wholesale markets include the ability to efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the successful and timely completion of project restructuring activities, maintenance of the qualifying facility status of certain projects, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power.  There can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity, and there are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the control of FPL Energy.  FPL Energy's inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty cred it risk or other risk measures could significantly impair FPL Group's future financial results.  In keeping with industry trends, a portion of FPL Energy's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements.  As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which may affect the volatility of FPL Group's financial results.  In addition, FPL Energy's business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, FPL Energy's ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power may be limited.
FPL Group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry.  In addition, FPL Group may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to successfully and timely complete and integrate them.
FPL Group and FPL rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows.  The inability of FPL Group, FPL Group Capital Inc and FPL to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets, which, in turn, could impact FPL Group's and FPL's ability to grow their businesses and would likely increase interest costs.
FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations are affected by changes in the weather.  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at wind and hydro-powered facilities.  In addition, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and/or property damage, which could require additional costs to be incurred.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws or corporate governance requirements.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities.  Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets.  The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit power, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, delay in economic recovery in the United States, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance.
FPL Group's and FPL's ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by national and local events as well as company-specific events.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with union employees or work stoppage.
The issues and associated risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones FPL Group and FPL may face.  Additional issues may arise or become material as the energy industry evolves.  The risks and uncertainties associated with these additional issues could impair FPL Group's and FPL's businesses in the future.
Item 8.01  Other Events
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)  Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  February 9, 2005

Exhibit 10(a)
AGREEMENT dated as of, between FPL Group, Inc. (hereinafter called the "Company"), and (hereinafter called the "Participant").
1.- The Company hereby grants to the Participant a Shareholder Value Award, which shall confer upon the Participant the rights set forth below to receive shares of Common Stock ("Shareholder Value Shares"). These Shareholder Value Shares shall be credited to the Shareholder Value Share Account maintained on behalf of the Participant under the Company's Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan of, as amended from time to time (the "Plan"). This Shareholder Value Award shall be deemed to have been granted on and shall have a term ending on (such period hereinafter referred to as the "Performance Period").
  Grant of Shareholder Value Award
2 - Payment of this Shareholder Value Award shall be conditioned upon achievement of the net income goals established by the Company for the Participant in connection with the Annual Incentive Awards for each of the three calendar years of the Performance Period (the "Net Income Goals"). Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the achievement of the Net Income Goals, the Participant shall have the right to payment of an amount of shares of Common Stock, which may not exceed 160% of the target Shareholder Value Award. The Shareholder Value Award Pool is equal to the sum of (A) all target Shareholder Value Awards for eligible executive participants and (B) the product of (i) the Sharing Percentage and (ii) the product of (a) the difference between the three-year average annual total shareholder return ("TSR") of the Company Common Stock and the median TSR of the Peer Group for the three-year period, and (b) the market capitalization of the Company at the beginning of the Performance Period. The Sharing Percentage is .4 percent if the TSR of the Common Stock is at or above the TSR for the median of the Peer Group and is .8 percent if the TSR of the Common Stock is below the TSR for the median of the Peer Group. The Individual Award Allocation Percentage is the percentage derived by dividing the value of the Participant's Shareholder Value Award at the time of grant by the sum of the values of Shareholder Value Awards of all executive participants in the Plan for the Performance Period. Total shareholder return or TSR means the stock price appreciation or depreciation plus reinvested dividends on Common Stock for the three calendar years of the Performance Period. The Peer Group is the utility companies comprising the Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Electric Utility Standard & Poor's Electric Utility Companies Index operating primarily within the United States which are publicly traded on a nationally recognized United States exchange as o f the final day of the Performance Period. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which a Participant may receive in any year from this Shareholder Value Award and all other stock-based awards which are also subject to performance criteria is 100,000 shares. The Compensation Committee of the Board or such other Board committee designated to administer the Plan (the "Committee") has the discretion to reduce the payout, but not to increase it.
.  Rights to Payment of Shareholder Value Award
3.- Payments made hereunder shall be made in such form as the Committee may determine, including in cash, in shares of Common Stock, or a combination of both. If payment of all or any portion of this Shareholder Value Award is to be made in the form of cash, the amount of such payment shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares of Common Stock determined under Section 2 hereof by the fair market value of a share of Common Stock as of the close of business on the date of determination. For the purpose of this Agreement, the date of determination shall be the date as of which the Participant's right to a payment under this Shareholder Value Award is determined by the Committee.
  Payment of Shareholder Value Award
Payment of amounts due shall be made as soon as administratively practicable following the end of the Performance Period and the Committee's determination of the Participant's right to payment.
4.- In the event the Participant terminates his employment with the Company during the Performance Period, his right to a payment of the Shareholder Value Award will be determined as follows:
  Termination of Employment
If his termination of employment is due to resignation, discharge, or early retirement at the Participant's request, all rights to a payment under this Shareholder Value Award shall be forfeited.
If his termination of employment is due to retirement on or after his normal retirement age (as defined under the provisions of the FPL Group Employee Pension Plan), early retirement at the Company's request, or total and permanent disability, he shall be entitled to the amount of shares of Common Stock described in Section 2 hereof prorated for the period of service during the Performance Period, such proration to be based solely on the number of full years of service completed during the Performance Period. Payment of this Shareholder Value Award shall be made at the time and manner specified in Section 3 hereof.
If the Participant's employment is terminated during the Performance Period for any reason other than as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, or if an ambiguity exists as to the interpretation of those paragraphs, the Committee shall have the right to determine whether the Participant's right to this Shareholder Value Award shall be forfeited or whether the Participant shall be entitled to a pro rata payment based upon full years of service completed during the Performance Period.
5.   - In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or similar corporate change, then the number and price of Shareholder Value Shares then held in the Participant's Shareholder Value Share Account and the number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted under the Plan to the Participant shall be adjusted proportionately. No adjustment will be made in connection with the payment by the Company of any cash dividend on its Common Stock or in connection with the issuance by the Company of any warrants, rights, or options to acquire additional shares of Common Stock or of securities convertible into Common Stock.
Adjustments
6. - This grant of Shareholder Value Shares will not entitle the Participant to any interest in or to any dividend, voting, or other rights normally attributable to Common Stock ownership.
  No Rights of Stock Ownership
7. - The Company, or any Subsidiary as appropriate, is authorized to withhold from any payment relating to this Shareholder Value Award, including a distribution of shares of Common Stock, or any payroll or other payment due to the Participant, amounts of withholding and any other taxes due with respect thereto, and to take any other action as the Company may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Company and the Participant to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax liabilities relating to this Shareholder Value Award.
  Tax Withholding
8. - The Participant's rights and interest in this Shareholder Value Award may not be assigned, pledged, or transferred except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
  Nonassignability
9. - This Agreement is not to be construed as giving any right to the Participant for continuous employment by the Company or a Subsidiary. The Company and its Subsidiaries retain the right to terminate an employee at will and with or without cause at any time.
  Effect Upon Employment
10.   -In consideration of this Award granted under this Agreement, the Participant covenants and agrees as follows: (the "Protective Covenants"):
Protective Covenants
During Participant's employment with the Company, and for a two-year period following the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company, Participant agrees not to compete or attempt to compete for, or act as a broker or otherwise participate in, any projects in which the Company has at any time done any work or undertaken any development efforts. Furthermore, during the Participant's employment with the Company, Participant shall not directly or indirectly solicit any of the Company's customers, vendors, contractors, agents, or any other parties with which the Company has an existing or prospective business relationship, for the benefit of Participant or for the benefit of any third party, nor shall the Participant accept consideration or negotiate or enter into agreements with such parties for the benefit of Participant or any third party.
During the Participant's employment with the Company and for a two-year period following the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company, the Participant shall not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of the Participant or for any other business, person or entity, entice, induce or solicit or attempt to entice, induce or solicit any employee of the Company to leave the Company's employ or to hire or to cause any employee of the Company to become employed for any reason whatsoever.
Participant shall not, at any time in the future and in any way, disparage the Company or its current or former officers, directors, and employees, orally or in writing, or make any statements that may be derogatory or detrimental to the Company's good name or business reputation.
Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have an adequate remedy at law for monetary damages if Participant breaches these Protective Covenants. Therefore, in addition to all remedies to which the Company may be entitled for a breach or threatened breach of these Protective Covenants, including but not limited to monetary damages, the Company will be entitled to specific enforcement of these Protective Covenants and to injunctive or other equitable relief as a remedy for a breach or threatened breach. In addition, upon any breach of these Protective Covenants or any separate Confidentiality Agreement between the Company and the Participant, all rights to receive payments under these awards shall be forfeited.
For purposes of this Section 10, the term "Company" shall include all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company, including, without limitation, Florida Power & Light Company and FPL Energy, LLC, and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the terms of these Protective Covenants shall survive the termination of this Agreement and shall remain in effect.
11. - This Agreement shall be binding upon any successor of the Company.
  Successors
12. - This Agreement is made under and subject to the provisions of the Plan, and all the provisions of the Plan are also provisions of this Agreement (including, but not limited to the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan pertaining to a Change in Control). If there is a difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will govern. All terms used herein are used as defined in the Plan as it may be amended from time to time. The Company and Committee retain all authority and powers granted by the Plan as it may be amended from time to time not expressly limited by this Agreement.
  Incorporation of Plan's Terms
13. - The Committee has the sole and absolute right to interpret the provisions of this Agreement.
  Interpretation
14.   - This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida, without regard to its conflict of laws principles. All suits, actions, and proceedings relating to this Agreement may be brought only in the courts of the State of Florida located in Palm Beach County or in the United States District Court for the Southern District in West Palm Beach, Florida. The Company and Participant shall consent to the nonexclusive personal jurisdiction of the courts described in this section for the purpose of all suits, actions, and proceedings. The Company and Participant each waive all objections to venue and to all claims that a court chosen in accordance with this section is improper based on a venue or a forum non conveniens claim.
Governing Law/Jurisdiction
15.   - The Participant hereby agrees and acknowledges that the provisions of any outstanding Shareholder Value Award granted to the Participant under the Plan prior to February 11, 2002, insofar as such provisions relate to Section 2, , shall be deemed amended, effective as of the date of grant of such award, to incorporate the provisions of Section 2 of this Agreement, and to remove any provisions which conflict with said Section 2. Further, the Participant hereby agrees and acknowledges that the provisions of any outstanding award granted to the Participant under the Plan prior to February 11, 2002, insofar as such provisions relate to a Change of Control, shall be deemed amended, effective as of the date of grant of such award, to incorporate the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan, as in effect as of February 11, 2002, and to remove any provisions which conflict with said Section 9.
Acknowledgement
Rights to Payment of Shareholder Value Award
By signing this Agreement, the Participant accepts and agrees to all of the foregoing terms and provisions and to all the terms and provisions of the Plan incorporated herein by reference and confirms that he has received or has access to a copy of the Plan.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed this Agreement as of the date and year first above written.
FPL GROUP, INC.
BY:            __________________________________
ACCEPTED:  __________________________________
 




