FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20080527161139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
:  On May 23, 2008, at the FPL Group, Inc. 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the shareholders of FPL Group, Inc. (the Company or FPL Group) approved the FPL Group, Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the Plan) which had been approved by the Company's Compensation Committee and Board of Directors on December 14, 2007, with an effective date of January 1, 2008, subject to the receipt of shareholder approval.  The Plan is structured to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), so that the Company may maximize its ability to deduct for tax purposes such annual compensation awarded in excess of $1 million to certain of its highest paid executives.  Under the Plan, FPL Group may pay annual cash incentive compensation which may be deductible under the Code.  The amount of such annual incentive compensation will vary ba sed on the level of attainment relative to one or more performance goals pre-established by the Compensation Committee or other committee of disinterested directors designated by the Board of Directors (the Committee).  Incentive compensation may be zero if the performance goal(s) are not attained.  The following are the material provisions of the Plan:
Adoption of Executive Annual Incentive Plan
.  Eligibility is restricted to the officers of the Company and its subsidiaries who are designated as executives.  During the first 90 days of each year, the Committee selects the year's participants from among the eligible executive officers.  After the first 90 days, the Committee may allow participation (which may be on a prorated basis) by executives who are placed in eligible positions through hiring, promotion or transfer before August 31st of each year.  The Committee has delegated to each of the chief executive officer and the senior human resources officer, acting singly, the right to select additional executives as participants.
Eligibility
.  When a participant is selected for a year, the participant's target (if any) and maximum annual incentive and the performance goal(s) which must be achieved to earn the annual incentive are also set by the Committee.  The target annual incentive and the performance goal(s) may be changed only under limited circumstances.  The target annual incentive is expressed as a percentage of the participant's base salary.  The performance goals will be specified levels established with respect to any or all of the following corporate performance measures:
Target Awards and Performance Goals
The Committee will assign a percentage weight to the performance goal or goals chosen.  The aggregate weight for all goals must be 100%.  The Committee may also set one or more performance levels below or above the target level (if applicable) and assign lower or higher annual incentive percentages that will be paid if these levels are attained.
.  After the end of each year, the Committee will determine the extent of achievement of the established performance goal(s) and certify the results.  The Company will pay the annual incentive compensation assigned to the performance level achieved as soon as practicable.  The maximum annual incentive that the Company may pay under the Plan to any participant for any year is $5,000,000.
Certification of Performance and Payment of Annual Incentives
.  The Plan is administered by the Committee, which has plenary authority to make all determinations and interpretations and take all acts required for the Plan's operation.
Administration
.  The Plan will be in effect for a five-year period ending December 31, 2012.  The Board of Directors may suspend it or terminate it before then. It may also amend the Plan at any time and in any respect.  Any amendment that would change the list of performance measures, the class of eligible employees or the maximum amount of annual incentive compensation must first be approved by shareholders.
Amendment and Termination
 
 
 


