FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20080731081216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits

Exhibit 99
NOTE TO EDITORS: This news release reflects the earnings report of FPL Group, Inc. Reference to the corporation and its earnings or financial results should be to "FPL Group" and not abbreviated using the name "FPL" as the latter is the name/acronym of the corporation's electric utility subsidiary.
 
FPL Group delivers strong second-quarter performance
FPL Energy delivers very good quarter on strength of existing and new assets
Florida Power & Light Company has solid results despite economic weakness
FPL Group reaffirms earnings expectations for 2008, 2009
 
FPL Group, Inc. (NYSE: FPL) today reported 2008 second quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $209 million, or $0.52 per share, compared with $405 million, or $1.01 per share, in the second quarter of 2007. FPL Group's net income for the second quarter of 2008 included a net unrealized after-tax loss of $157 million associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges and a $9 million after-tax loss related to other than temporary impairments on investments, or OTTI. The results for last year's second quarter included a net unrealized after-tax gain of $58 million primarily associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges and a $1 million after tax loss related to OTTI.
JUNO BEACH, Fla. -
Excluding the mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges and OTTI, FPL Group's adjusted earnings were $375 million, or $0.93 per share, for the second quarter of 2008, compared with $348 million, or $0.86 per share, in the second quarter of 2007. The difference between 2008 second quarter adjusted results and GAAP results is primarily the losses on a GAAP basis from marking to market non-qualifying hedges. The negative mark in the second quarter is the result of higher forward prices for natural gas and power during the quarter.
FPL Group's management uses adjusted earnings internally for financial planning, for analysis of performance, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and as inputs in determining whether certain performance targets are met for performance-based compensation under the company's employee incentive compensation plan. FPL Group also uses earnings expressed in this fashion when communicating its earnings outlook to analysts and investors. FPL Group management believes that adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of FPL Group's fundamental earnings power.
"FPL Group performed very well in the second quarter of 2008. Adjusted earnings per share increased about 8 percent year over year. Florida Power & Light Company produced solid results despite very challenging marketplace conditions, and FPL Energy had another outstanding quarter. Together, these businesses perform in a very complementary fashion. We have a great utility franchise favored by great long-term demographic trends, and FPL Energy is well positioned for a world increasingly focused on the urgent need to address climate change," said Lew Hay, chairman and chief executive officer of FPL Group.
Florida Power & Light
Company
FPL Group's regulated utility subsidiary, Florida Power & Light Company, reported second quarter net income of $217 million, or $0.54 per share, compared with $211 million, or $0.53 per share, for the prior-year quarter
.
Retail sales of electricity increased 3.2 percent during the second quarter, largely due to weather. Year-over-year growth in customer accounts slowed, but remained positive at 21,000, or about 0.5 percent.
For the 2008 second quarter, FPL's operations and maintenance (O&M) expense was $379 million, an increase of $13 million from the prior-year figures. The primary drivers of the increase for the quarter were fossil generation owing to the timing of outage work and structural maintenance, and transmission and distribution. For the full year, FPL expects to experience cost pressures in nuclear, fossil generation (primarily due to the full-year impact of Turkey Point Unit 5), and bad debt expense.
During the quarter, Florida Gov. Charlie Crist signed energy legislation that focuses on reducing carbon dioxide emissions and promoting renewable energy sources. Although FPL has one of the cleanest emissions profiles in the nation, the company continues its emphasis on developing a cleaner, more efficient generation fleet. In April, the company petitioned the Florida Public Service Commission for approval to build a third combined-cycle natural gas-fired power plant at the West County Energy Center. West County Unit 3 will be identical to Units 1 and 2, which are now under construction and scheduled to be completed in 2009. If approved, Unit 3 would be in operation by 2011. It is anticipated that all three units will provide customers with net savings, driven by the greater fuel efficiency of these plants.
At the end of April, FPL announced plans to modernize its Riviera and Cape Canaveral facilities. This effort will replace 1,357 megawatts of older, inefficient generation with more than 2,400 megawatts of new, highly efficient combined-cycle plants, which are also expected to provide net benefits to customers. The PSC is expected to rule on the third West County unit and the plant modernizations together in August.
In July, the PSC approved cost recovery for FPL's proposed 110 megawatts of solar generation to be placed into service at three locations throughout the state by year end 2010. This initiative includes what will be the nation's largest solar photovoltaic array and the nation's first hybrid energy center combining solar thermal energy with a combined-cycle natural gas unit.
FPL Energy
FPL Energy, the competitive energy subsidiary of FPL Group, reported second quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $3 million, or $0.01 per share, compared to $203 million, or $0.51 per share, in the prior-year quarter. FPL Energy's net income for the second quarter of 2008 included a net unrealized after-tax loss of $157 million associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges, and a $9 million loss associated with OTTI. The results for last year's second quarter included a net unrealized after-tax gain of $58 million associated with the mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges, and $1 million loss for OTTI.
Excluding the mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges and OTTI, adjusted net income for FPL Energy in the second quarter of 2008 was $169 million, or $0.42 per share, compared to $146 million, or $0.36 per share, in 2007.
FPL Energy's growth in adjusted earnings in the second quarter was driven principally by the addition of new projects, including new wind projects and the Point Beach nuclear facility acquired in 2007, as well as by the strength of existing asset operations.
FPL Energy's hedged gross margin positions for 2008 and 2009 remain essentially unchanged from the previous quarter. Commodity price fluctuations for 2008 will have little impact on FPL Energy's gross margins for the year. Nearly 87 percent of FPL Energy's expected gross margin for existing assets for 2009 is protected against price movements. This approximation does not include other factors such as power or fuel basis; weather, including wind, hydro and solar availability; and operational performance.
FPL Energy's industry-leading wind program continues to make excellent progress. Thus far in 2008, the company has added nearly 400 megawatts of new wind projects. For fiscal 2008, FPL Energy expects to add 1,200 to 1,300 megawatts of wind capacity.
Corporate and Other
The loss in Corporate and Other increased $2 million to $11 million for the second quarter of 2008 compared to the second quarter of 2007.
Outlook
FPL Group is reaffirming its 2008 and 2009 adjusted earnings per share expectations
as well as its goal of at least 10 percent annual earnings growth through 2012 using our 2006 adjusted earnings per share as the base. For 2008, the company continues to see a reasonable range of $3.83 to $3.93 of adjusted earnings per share given normal weather and no further material decline in the Florida economy. For 2009, the company continues to see adjusted earnings per share of $4.15 to $4.35 as a reasonable range.
As always, FPL Group's earnings expectations assume normal weather and operating conditions and exclude the effect of adopting new accounting standards, if any, and the mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges, and OTTI, none of which can be determined at this time.
 
As previously announced, FPL Group's second quarter earnings conference call is scheduled for 9 a.m. ET on Thursday, July 31, 2008. The webcast is available on FPL Group's website by accessing the following link, http://www.FPLGroup.com/investor/contents/investor_index.shtml. The slides accompanying the presentation may be downloaded at www.FPLGroup.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. ET today. For those unable to listen to the live webcast, a replay will be available for 30 days by accessing the same link as listed above.
 
 
In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act), FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) and Florida Power & Light Company (FPL) are hereby providing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause FPL Group's or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL in this press release, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, future events or performance, climate change strategy or growth strategies (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, aim, believe, could, estimated, may, plan, potential, projection, target, outlook, predict, inten d) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could cause FPL Group's or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and FPL Group and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
The following are some important factors that could have a significant impact on FPL Group's and FPL's operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Group's and FPL's actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements:
FPL Group and FPL are subject to complex laws and regulations and to changes in laws and regulations as well as changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including, but not limited to, initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the energy industry and environmental matters, including, but not limited to, matters related to the effects of climate change.  FPL holds franchise agreements with local municipalities and counties, and must renegotiate expiring agreements.  These factors may have a negative impact on the business and results of operations of FPL Group and FPL.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to complex laws and regulations, and to changes in laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, the PURPA, the Holding Company Act, the Federal Power Act, the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the 2005 Energy Act and certain sections of the Florida statutes relating to public utilities, changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including, but not limited to, those of the FERC, the FPSC and the legislatures and utility commissions of other states in which FPL Group has operations, and the NRC, with respect to, among other things, allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, operation of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of plant facilities, construction and operation of transmission and distribution facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of assets and facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning costs, ROE and equity ratio limits, and present or prospec tive wholesale and retail competition (including, but not limited to, retail wheeling and transmission costs).  The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery by FPL of any and all costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred.  The regulatory process generally restricts FPL's ability to grow earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations, as well as the effect of changes in or additions to applicable statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, climate change, waste management, marine and wildlife mortality, natural resources and health and safety that could, among other things, restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels required for the production of electricity and/or require additional pollution control equipment and otherwise increase costs.  There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future.
FPL Group and FPL operate in a changing market environment influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation, regulation or restructuring of the energy industry, including, but not limited to, deregulation or restructuring of the production and sale of electricity, as well as increased focus on renewable energy sources.  FPL Group and its subsidiaries will need to adapt to these changes and may face increasing competitive pressure.
FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations could be affected by FPL's ability to renegotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in Florida.
The operation and maintenance of transmission, distribution and power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involve significant risks that could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL.
The operation and maintenance of transmission, distribution and power generation facilities involve many risks, including, but not limited to, start up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission and distribution lines or pipelines, the inability to properly manage or mitigate known equipment defects throughout FPL Group's and FPL's generation fleets and transmission and distribution systems unless and until such defects are remediated, use of new technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, or the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions (including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as hurricanes and droughts), as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency.  This could result in lost revenues and/or increased expenses, including, but not limited to, the requirement to purchase power in the market at potentially higher prices to meet contractua l obligations.  Insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not cover any or all of the lost revenues or increased expenses, including, but not limited to, the cost of replacement power.  In addition to these risks, FPL Group's and FPL's nuclear units face certain risks that are unique to the nuclear industry including, but not limited to, the ability to store and/or dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the potential payment of significant retrospective insurance premiums, as well as additional regulatory actions up to and including shutdown of the units stemming from public safety concerns, whether at FPL Group's and FPL's plants, or at the plants of other nuclear operators.  Breakdown or failure of an operating facility of FPL Energy may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of the agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages.
The construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities, including nuclear facilities, involve substantial risks.  Should construction or capital improvement efforts be unsuccessful, the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL could be adversely affected.
FPL Group's and FPL's ability to successfully and timely complete their power generation facilities currently under construction, those projects yet to begin construction or capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables, including, but not limited to, transmission interconnection issues and escalating costs for materials, labor and environmental compliance, and subject to substantial risks.  Should any such efforts be unsuccessful, FPL Group and FPL could be subject to additional costs, termination payments under committed contracts, and/or the write-off of their investment in the project or improvement.
The use of derivative contracts by FPL Group and FPL in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the results of operations of FPL Group and FPL.
FPL Group and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards to manage their commodity and financial market risks.  FPL Group provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities and engages in energy trading activities.  FPL Group could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these derivative instruments, or if a counterparty fails to perform.  In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative instruments involves management's judgment or use of estimates.  As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments.  In addition, FPL's use of such instruments could be subject to prudency challenges and if found imprudent, cost recovery could be disallowed by the F PSC.
FPL Group's competitive energy business is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the control of FPL Group, that may reduce the revenues and adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group.
There are other risks associated with FPL Group's competitive energy business.  In addition to risks discussed elsewhere, risk factors specifically affecting FPL Energy's success in competitive wholesale markets include, but are not limited to, the ability to efficiently develop and operate generating assets, the successful and timely completion of project restructuring activities, maintenance of the qualifying facility status of certain projects, the price and supply of fuel (including transportation), transmission constraints, competition from new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power.  There can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity, and there are other financial, counterparty and market risks that are beyond the control of FPL Energy.  FPL Energy's inability or failure to effectively hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures could significantly impair FPL Group's future financial results.  In keeping with industry trends, a portion of FPL Energy's power generation facilities operate wholly or partially without long-term power purchase agreements.  As a result, power from these facilities is sold on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis, which may affect the volatility of FPL Group's financial results.  In addition, FPL Energy's business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others; if transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, FPL Energy's ability to sell and deliver its wholesale power may be limited.
FPL Group's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry.
FPL Group is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the power industry, in general, as well as the passage of the 2005 Energy Act.  In addition, FPL Group may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner.
Because FPL Group and FPL rely on access to capital markets, the inability to maintain current credit ratings and to access capital markets on favorable terms may limit the ability of FPL Group and FPL to grow their businesses and would likely increase interest costs.
FPL Group and FPL rely on access to capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows.  The inability of FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and FPL to maintain their current credit ratings, as well as significant volatility in the financial markets, could affect their ability to raise capital on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact FPL Group's and FPL's ability to grow their businesses and would likely increase their interest costs.
Customer growth in FPL's service area affects FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations.
FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations are affected by the growth in customer accounts in FPL's service area.  Customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in Florida, including, but not limited, to job and income growth, housing starts and new home prices.  Customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities at FPL.
Weather affects FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations.
FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations are affected by changes in the weather.  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas, affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities, including, but not limited to, wind, solar and hydro-powered facilities.  FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations can be affected by the impact of severe weather which can be destructive, causing outages and/or property damage, may affect fuel supply, and could require additional costs to be incurred.  At FPL, recovery of these costs is subject to FPSC approval.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to costs and other effects of legal proceedings as well as changes in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws and corporate governance requirements.
Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt FPL Group's and FPL's business may impact the operations of FPL Group and FPL in unpredictable ways.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities, as well as cyber attacks and disruptive activities of individuals and/or groups.  Infrastructure facilities and systems, including, but not limited to, generation, transmission and distribution facilities, physical assets and information systems, in general, have been identified as potential targets.  The effects of these threats and activities include, but are not limited to, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit power, the delay in development and construction of new generating facilities, the risk of a significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, delay in economic recovery in the U.S., and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance.
The ability of FPL Group and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be affected by national, state or local events and company-specific events.
FPL Group's and FPL's ability to obtain insurance, and the cost of and coverage provided by such insurance, could be affected by national, state or local events as well as company-specific events.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect the businesses and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors, including, but not limited to, loss or retirement of key executives, availability of qualified personnel, inflationary pressures on payroll and benefits costs, collective bargaining agreements with union employees and work stoppage that could affect the businesses and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL.
The risks described herein are not the only risks facing FPL Group and FPL.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to FPL Group or FPL, or that are currently deemed to be immaterial, also may materially adversely affect FPL Group's or FPL's business, financial condition and/or future operating results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


