FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20091020162425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Mr. Froggatt will receive a base salary for 2009 at an annual rate of $305,000, and a $100,000 signing bonus, which is subject to repayment if Mr. Froggatt voluntarily leaves the Company prior to the one-year anniversary of his employment date.  Mr. Froggatt will participate in (1) the Companys Executive Annual Incentive Plan in 2009 with a target award equal to 35% of his annual rate of base salary (prorated for actual service in 2009), (2) the Companys Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), with award terms materially consistent with the terms of similar awards for other executive officers, and (3) the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as a "Class A" participant (with base salary and annual incentive compensation included when calculating benefits).  Mr. Froggatt will receive a sign-on restricted stock grant of 3,656 shares of FPL Group common stock under the LTIP, vesting one-third per year over three years, subject to the Company's attainment of a performance target established by the Compensation Committee.  It is anticipated that Mr. Froggatt will also receive equity grants under the LTIP at the same time as those grants are made to other executive officers in February 2010, including (1) options to purchase shares of the common stock with a target grant date value equal to approximately $25,000; (2) shares of restricted stock with a target grant date value equal to approximately $150,000, vesting one-third per year over three years subject to the Company's attainment of a performance target or targets established by the Compensation Committee; (3) performance shares for the three-year performance period beginning January 1, 2010, with a target grant date value equal to approximately $150,000; and (4) sign-on grants of performance shares for the one-year performance period beginning January 1, 2010, with a target grant date value equal to approximately $50,000 and for the two-year performance period beginning January 1, 2010, with a target grant date value equal to approximately $100,000.  Mr. Froggatt will be eligible to receive the Companys standard relocation benefits (subject to repayment if Mr. Froggatt voluntarily leaves the Company prior to the one-year anniversary of his employment date), a temporary housing supplement of $15,000 and other benefits and perquisites generally available to executive officers.  The terms of the Executive Annual Incentive Plan, the LTIP, the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, and other benefits and perquisites generally available to the Companys executive officers are described in the Companys proxy statement dated April 6, 2009.
 
 
 
2
 
Item 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On October 16, 2009, the Board adopted two amendments to FPL Group's Bylaws, effective on the adoption date.  The amendments relate to the following:
 
 
 
A copy of the text of the foregoing amendments to the Bylaws is filed with this report as Exhibit 3 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)        Exhibits
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  October 20, 2009
 
4
 

Exhibit 3
 
 
The bylaws are amended by:
 
 
(1)  deleting the fifth paragraph of Article II, Section 7 and replacing it with the following:
 
 
Meetings of the board of directors may be called by the chairman of the board, the president, or by any two directors.  Regular meetings of committees shall be held on the schedule approved by the Board.  Special meetings of committees may be called by the chairman of the board, the chairman of such committee or any two members of such committee.
 
 
(2)  deleting the seventh paragraph of Article II, Section 7 and replacing it with the following:
 
 
Meetings of the board of directors shall be presided over by the chairman of the board, or if such position is vacant or such person is absent, by the lead director (if such a position shall have been duly established by the board of directors), or, if such position is vacant or such person is absent, by the chief executive officer designated as such by the board of directors pursuant to Article III, Section 1 of these bylaws.  If none of the chairman of the board, the lead director or the chief executive officer is present, the directors shall elect a chairman for the meeting from one of their members present.
 


