FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20100427082156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 27, 2010, FPL Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing first quarter 2010 earnings for FPL Group, Inc. and Florida Power & Light Company.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  April 27, 2010
 
2
 

Exhibit 99
NOTE TO EDITORS: This news release reflects the earnings report of FPL Group, Inc. Reference to the corporation and its earnings or financial results should be to FPL Group and not abbreviated using the name FPL as the latter is the name/acronym of the corporations electric utility subsidiary.
 
FPL Group announces first quarter earnings for 2010
 
JUNO BEACH, Fla.  FPL Group, Inc. (NYSE: FPL) today reported 2010 first quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $556 million, or $1.36 per share, compared with $364 million, or $0.90 per share, in the first quarter of 2009. On an adjusted basis, FPL Groups earnings were $386 million, or $0.94 per share, compared with $364 million, or $0.90 per share, in the first quarter of 2009. Adjusted earnings exclude the mark-to-market effects of non-qualifying hedges and the net effect of other than temporary impairments (OTTI) on certain investments, both of which relate to NextEra Energy Resources.
FPL Group management uses adjusted earnings, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, internally for financial planning, for analysis of performance, for reporting of results to the Board of Directors and as input in determining whether certain performance targets are met for performance-based compensation under the companys employee incentive compensation plans. FPL Group also uses earnings expressed in this fashion when communicating its earnings outlook to analysts and investors. FPL Group management believes that adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of FPL Groups fundamental earnings power. The attachments to this news release include a reconciliation of historical adjusted earnings to net income, which is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
Although we continue to be challenged by the economic environment in the United States and Florida, we are pleased to report a more than 4 percent increase in adjusted earnings per share for the quarter. FPL Group experienced contrasting weather effects in the quarter, with a weak wind resource at NextEra Energy Resources partially offset by increased demand for electricity at Florida Power & Light as a result of unseasonably cold weather in Florida. Revenue recovery associated with the West County Energy Center units 1 and 2 contributed to FPLs results as well. Our customers are benefitting significantly from the addition of these units because they are among the most fuel efficient, most reliable and cleanest of their kind in the country, said FPL Group Chairman and CEO Lew Hay.
 
 
Florida Power & Light
Company
FPL Group's rate-regulated utility subsidiary, Florida Power & Light Company, reported first quarter net income of $191 million, or $0.47 per share, compared with $127 million, or $0.31 per share, for the prior-year quarter. Retail energy sales increased 6.6 percent for the quarter on a year-over-year basis, and usage per customer increased 6.4 percent.
FPLs results were driven by colder-than-normal weather, which led to an increase of $0.08 per share compared with last years first quarter. On Jan. 11, 2010, FPLs electrical system performed well in meeting an all-time record peak customer demand of 24,346 megawatt hours. FPLs revenue in the quarter also increased as a result of the addition of West County Energy Center units 1 and 2, which were not yet in operation during last years comparable quarter.
In other activity during the quarter, FPL and the U.S. Department of Energy in March finalized the contract for a federal Smart Grid Investment Grant award to support FPL's Energy Smart Florida project, enabling the company to accelerate the installation of 4.5 million smart meters and add intelligent devices and other advanced monitoring equipment to its transmission and distribution network. Customers are expected to benefit from having more information to help them better manage their energy usage. Other expected customer benefits in the near term include enhanced customer service, better outage prevention and identification, and faster service restoration.   
Earlier this month, FPL commissioned the Space Coast Next Generation Solar Energy Center at NASAs Kennedy Space Center. The solar photovoltaic power facility produces an estimated 10 megawatts of clean, emissions-free power, enough to serve approximately 1,100 homes. Over the life of the project, the facility is expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by more than 227,000 tons, the equivalent of removing 1,800 cars from the road each year. It is also expected to save approximately 122,000 barrels of oil and 2.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas over the life of the facility.
NextEra Energy Resources
NextEra Energy Resources, the competitive energy business of FPL Group with generating facilities in 26 states and Canada, reported first quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $367 million, or $0.89 per share, compared with $228 million, or $0.56 per share, in the prior-year quarter. On an adjusted basis, NextEra Energy Resources earnings were $196 million, or $0.47 per share, compared with $228 million, or $0.56 per share, in the first quarter of 2009.
NextEra Energy Resources added 1,360 megawatts of new wind projects since the first quarter of 2009, contributing $11.7 million in adjusted earnings, or $0.03 cents per share on a year-over-year basis. Shortly after the quarter ended, NextEra Energy Resources was awarded 148 megawatts of wind projects in Ontario, Canada, as part of the provinces feed-in tariff program.
NextEra Energy Resources existing wind assets were negatively impacted by about $48 million, or $0.12 cents per share, compared with the prior-year quarter, primarily due to a lower wind resource. In addition, the company benefited from state investment tax credits on certain wind projects in the first quarter of 2009 without a corresponding benefit this year. NextEra Energy Resources merchant assets in the New England Power Pool improved over the prior years quarter by approximately $13 million, or $0.03 per share, but those results were roughly offset by poor market conditions and a planned maintenance outage that negatively impacted the companys natural gas assets in Texas by $11.2 million, or $0.03 per share.
NextEra Energy Resources power marketing and trading business contributed roughly $0.03 per share this quarter in excess of its contribution from last years comparable quarter.
 
2
 
NextEra Energy Resources operational performance continued to be among the industrys best in the first quarter. For example, the forced outage rate of its fossil fleet was best in class for the industry based on available data and the forced outage rate of its wind fleet was one of the best ever and continues to lead the industry.
In the first quarter of 2010, FPL Group revised the methodology for allocating interest and shared service costs between NextEra Energy Resources and the Corporate and Other segment. Prior period amounts for these segments have been revised to be consistent with this methodology.
Recently, NextEra Energy Resources has re-evaluated the impact of current market conditions on its wind pipeline and now expects that wind build additions will be between 600 and 850 megawatts in 2010, excluding any wind assets, if any, the company may acquire during the year. This estimated range is down from a prior expectation of about 1,000 megawatts of wind build in the year.
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other recorded a loss of $2 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared to a gain of $9 million in the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to increased interest expense.
Outlook
FPL Group continues to expect it will deliver adjusted earnings per share for 2010 in the range of $4.25 to $4.65.
FPL Groups adjusted earnings expectations exclude the cumulative effect of adopting new accounting standards, the unrealized mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairment losses on securities held in NextEra Energy Resources nuclear decommissioning funds, none of which can be determined at this time. In addition, FPL Groups adjusted earnings expectations assume, among other things: normal weather and operating conditions; no further significant decline in the national or the Florida economy; supportive commodity markets; public policy support for wind and solar development and construction; market demand and supply chain expansion for wind and solar; transmission expansion to support wind and solar development; access to capital at reasonable cost and terms; and no acquisitio ns. Please see the accompanying cautionary statements for a list of the risk factors that may affect future results.
As previously announced, FPL Groups first-quarter earnings conference call is scheduled for 9 a.m. ET on Tuesday, April 27, 2010. The webcast is available on FPL Groups website by accessing the following link, http://www.FPLGroup.com/investor/contents/investor_index.shtml. The slides and earnings release accompanying the presentation may be downloaded at www.FPLGroup.com beginning at 7:30 a.m. ET today. For people unable to listen to the live webcast, a replay will be available for 90 days by accessing the same link as listed above.
This news release should be read in conjunction with the attached unaudited financial information.
 
3
 
FPL Group: Energy Solutions for the Next Era 
FPL Group, Inc. (NYSE: FPL) is a leading clean energy company with 2009 revenues of more than $15 billion, nearly 43,000 megawatts of generating capacity, and more than 15,000 employees in 28 states and Canada. Headquartered in Juno Beach, Fla., FPL Groups principal subsidiaries are NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, the largest generator in North America of renewable energy from the wind and sun, and Florida Power & Light Company, which serves approximately 4.5 million customer accounts in Florida and is one of the largest rate-regulated electric utilities in the country. Through its subsidiaries, FPL Group collectively operates the third largest U.S. nuclear power generation fleet. For more information about FPL Group companies, visit these websites: www.FPLGroup.com, www.NextEraEnergyResources.com, www.FPL.com.
In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act), FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) and Florida Power & Light Company (FPL) are hereby providing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause FPL Group's or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL in this news release, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise.  Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, future events or performance, climate change strategy or growth strategies (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as will, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, aim, believe, could, should, would, estimated, may, plan, potential, projection, target, outlook, predict and intend or words of similar meaning) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward-looking.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties.  Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could cause FPL Group's or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL. 
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and FPL Group and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law.  New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement.
The following are some important factors that could have a significant impact on FPL Group's and FPL's operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Group's and FPL's actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed or implied in the forward-looking statements:
 
4
 
FPL Group and FPL are subject to complex laws and regulations and to changes in laws and regulations as well as changing governmental policies and regulatory actions.  FPL holds franchise agreements with local municipalities and counties, and must renegotiate expiring agreements.  These factors may have a negative impact on the business and results of operations of FPL Group and FPL.
The operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involve significant risks that could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL.
The operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of nuclear units owned by FPL or NextEra Energy Resources, and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage.
 
5
 
The construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation and transmission facilities involve substantial risks.  Should construction or capital improvement efforts be unsuccessful or delayed, the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL could be adversely affected.
The use of derivative contracts by FPL Group and FPL in the normal course of business could result in financial losses or the payment of margin cash collateral that could adversely impact the results of operations or cash flows of FPL Group and FPL.
 
6
 
FPL Group's competitive energy business is subject to risks, many of which are beyond the control of FPL Group, including, but not limited to, the efficient development and operation of generating assets, the successful and timely completion of project restructuring activities, the price and supply of fuel and equipment, transmission constraints, competition from other generators, including those using new sources of generation, excess generation capacity and demand for power, that may reduce revenues, increase costs or otherwise adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group.
FPL Group's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry.
FPL Group and FPL participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth, future income and expenditures.
Changes in the number of customer accounts and customer usage in FPL's service area affect FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations.
 
7
 
Weather affects FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations, as can the impact of severe weather.  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas, affect the price of energy commodities, and can affect the production of electricity at power generating facilities.
FPL Group and FPL rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows.  Adverse capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect FPL Group's and FPL's ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital and operate and grow their businesses, and increase the cost of capital.  Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets can also adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL, as well as exert downward pressure on the market price of FPL Group's common stock.
FPL Group's, FPL Group Capital Inc's (FPL Group Capital) and FPL's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may adversely affect FPL Group's and FPL's liquidity, limit the ability of FPL Group and FPL to grow their businesses, and would likely increase interest costs.  In addition, FPL Group's, FPL Group Capital's or FPL's credit providers' inability to maintain their current credit ratings, or to fund their credit commitments, may adversely affect FPL Group's and FPL's liquidity.
FPL Group may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to FPL Group.
 
8
 
Changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could adversely affect FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to credit and performance risk from third parties under supply and service contracts.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to costs and other potentially adverse effects of legal and regulatory proceedings as well as regulatory compliance and changes in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, accounting standards, securities laws, corporate governance requirements and labor and employment laws.
Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt FPL Group's and FPL's business may impact the operations of FPL Group and FPL in unpredictable ways and could adversely affect FPL Groups and FPLs results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
 
9
 
The ability of FPL Group and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect the businesses and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL.
The risks described herein are not the only risks facing FPL Group and FPL.  Additional risks and uncertainties also may materially adversely affect FPL Group's or FPL's business, financial condition and/or future operating results.
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
 
14
 
 
15
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
18
 
 
19
 
 
20
 
 
 
21
 


