FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20100402164731.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 2, 2010, Lewis Hay, III, chairman and chief executive officer of FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group), furnished a letter dated April 2, 2010 to all employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries.  A copy of the letter is attached as Exhibit 99, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  April 2, 2010
 
2
 

Exhibit 99
April 2, 2010
Team:
I am writing to follow up on my February 8th letter informing you that the Review Board established under our formal complaint procedures would be conducting an investigation into allegations made in January 20th and February 3rd letters. These letters were directed to me from anonymous authors claiming to be Florida Power & Light Company employees.  I am pleased to report to you that the extensive probe into those anonymous allegations has yielded no factual support for the allegations that the company or any individual employee engaged in any fraudulent or other illegal conduct.
This comprehensive investigation, which was initiated by the Review Board with significant oversight by the Audit Committee of the FPL Group Board of Directors, included extensive employee interviews, voluminous electronic and paper document reviews, and a forensic accounting review.
Carlton Fields, P.A., a leading Florida-based law firm, assisted the Review Board.  Paul Calli, Michael Pasano, Sam Salario, Adam Schwartz and other Carlton Fields partners, who collectively have over 100 years of legal practice experience and include the chair of the firms White Collar Crime and Government Investigations Practice Group and former members of the United States Attorneys Office, the Florida State Prosecutors Office and the Federal Public Defenders Office, were among the contributing Carlton Fields attorneys.  An independent accounting firm, primarily composed of former IRS auditors collectively having over 75 years of federal law enforcement experience, also assisted. In total, Carlton Fields and the independent accounting firm have worked more than 1,500 hours over almost t wo months on this investigation.
Substantial time and effort was, of course, also devoted by both the Review Board and Audit Committee.  The investigation had unfettered access to our employees, our books and records, our e-mail system, and our computer files.  As a reminder, this investigation followed a separate internal investigation into the January 20th letter that found no evidence of wrongdoing.
Over the course of the investigation, we ensured that every opportunity was provided for any employee who believed he or she might have specific facts relevant to the allegations to come forward and present those facts in a confidential and secure manner. In addition to our existing internal processes for reporting employee concerns, the company provided three separate hotlines for any employee to confidentially or anonymously report a concern to a third party. One of the hotlines was directed to the FPL Group Board of Directors, one to Carlton Fields and one to Global Compliance, a leading independent provider of hotline services.  We also encouraged employees to come forward with any information they had by reminding them of the obligation they owe under the FPL Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to report any actual or suspected violation of a law or regulation and any actual or suspected fraud, together with their right to remain anonymous and to be free from the threat of retaliatory action.
In sum, there should be no doubt that we took these allegations very seriously. I would like to thank all of you who were called upon to provide information and fully cooperated with the investigation. For reasons of integrity of the process and out of respect for those who furnished information, I hope you can understand that it would not be appropriate to share additional investigation details with you.
We are proud that the quality of major company processes for validating the accuracy of information we furnish to our external stakeholders continues to satisfy scrutiny. Nonetheless, as all of you know, I am deeply committed to continuous improvement in all aspects of our business.  To the extent that we fall short of employees expectations, I am committed to improve.  In that spirit, and to reaffirm our commitment to the integrity of our processes, public statements and regulatory filings, and to high ethical conduct, we are taking the following actions:
As we move forward, I ask that each and every one of us seek to work as a cohesive team toward our common goal of providing high quality, affordable and reliable service to our customers, which will in turn lead to what is best for our employees and our shareholders.
Sincerely,
Lew Hay
Chairman & CEO
FPL Group


