FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20100524104825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrants under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing description of the Amendments is qualified in all respects by reference to the text of the Amendments, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3(ii) to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 5.07  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
(b)           The final voting results with respect to each proposal voted upon at the Annual Meeting are set forth below.
 
Proposal 1
 
The Companys shareholders elected each of the 12 nominees to the Board by a majority of the votes cast, as set forth below:
There were no abstentions in the election of directors.
Proposal 2
 
The Companys shareholders ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for 2010, as set forth below:
Proposal 3
The Companys shareholders approved a proposal to amend Article I of the Companys Restated Articles of Incorporation to change the Companys name to NextEra Energy, Inc., as set forth below:
 
 
 
2
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
On May 21, 2010, following approval by the Company's shareholders at the Annual Meeting as reported under Item 5.07, the Company filed Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of FPL Group, Inc. Changing the Name of the Corporation with the Department of State of the State of Florida implementing a change in the Companys name to NextEra Energy, Inc.  A copy of the Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation is filed as Exhibit 3(i) to this report.  The Company plans to file a Supplemental Listing Application with the New York Stock Exchange to change its common stock ticker symbol from "FPL" to "NEE," which change is expected to be effective on or about June 23, 2010.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 24, 2010
 
3
 
 

Exhibit 3(i)
 
Document Number of Corporation: M04961
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 607.1006, Florida Statutes, the undersigned Florida Profit Corporation adopts the following amendment to its Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, for the purpose of changing the name of the corporation:
1.           The name of the corporation is FPL Group, Inc. (the Corporation).
2.           The new name of the Corporation is NextEra Energy, Inc.
3.           The amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the Restated Articles), of the Corporation approved by the shareholders of the Corporation is that the text of ARTICLE I of the Restated Articles is amended to read in its entirety as follows:
4.           This amendment was duly proposed to, and recommended by, the Board of Directors of the Corporation to the Corporations shareholders, and was duly approved by the Corporations shareholders, and adopted, on May 21, 2010, all pursuant to Section 607.1003 of the Florida Statutes.
5.           The number of votes cast for the amendment by the shareholders was sufficient for approval of the amendment.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused these Articles of Amendment to be executed in its name by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on May 21, 2010.

Exhibit 3(ii)
 
 
 
 
May 21, 2010
 
 
 
The bylaws are amended by:
 
(1) deleting the first sentence of Article IV (prior to the addition set forth in (2), below) and replacing it with the following:
Certificates representing shares in the Corporation shall be signed by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the president or a vice president and by the secretary or an assistant secretary.
(2) adding the following before the first sentence of Article IV:
Shares in the Corporation may but need not be represented by certificates.
(3) deleting the second paragraph of Article IV and replacing it with the following:
Each certificate representing shares shall state upon the face thereof:  the name of the Corporation; that the Corporation is organized under the laws of Florida; the name of the person or persons to whom issued; and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, which such certificate represents.
(4) adding a new third paragraph to Article IV, as follows:
The board of directors of the Corporation may authorize the issuance of some or all of the shares of any or all of its classes or series without certificates. Any such authorization shall not affect shares already represented by certificates until they are surrendered to the Corporation.


