FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20100521095959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 21, 2010, at FPL Group, Inc.'s (FPL Group) 2010 annual meeting of shareholders in Juno Beach, Florida, Lewis Hay, III, chairman and chief executive officer of FPL Group, reaffirmed FPL Group's previously announced average adjusted earnings per share growth expectations of approximately 5% to 7% per year from 2009 to 2014, resulting in adjusted earnings per share expectations of $5.17 to $5.68 for 2014.  These adjusted earnings per share expectations and average adjusted earnings per share growth expectations exclude the cumulative effect of adopting new accounting standards, the unrealized mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairment losses on securities held in NextEra Energy Resources, LLC's nuclear decommissioning funds, none of which can be determined at this time. &# 160;Adjusted earnings do not represent a substitute for net income, as prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act), FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) and Florida Power & Light Company (FPL) are hereby providing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause FPL Group's or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of FPL Group and FPL in this Form 8-K, on their respective websites, in response to questions or otherwise.  Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, strategies, future events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases such as will, will likely result, are expected to, will conti nue, is anticipated, aim, believe, could, should, would, estimated, may, plan, potential, projection, target, outlook, predict and intend or words of similar meaning) are not statements of historical facts and may be forward-looking.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties.  Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements) that could have a significant impact on FPL Group's and/or FPL's operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Group's and/or FPL's actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of FPL Group and/or FPL.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and FPL Group and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date on which such statement is made, unless otherwise required by law.  New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement.
The following are some important factors that could have a significant impact on FPL Group's and FPL's operations and financial results, and could cause FPL Group's and FPL's actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed or implied in the forward-looking statements:
FPL Groups and FPLs results of operation may be adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their businesses.
 
 
2
 
 
FPL Groups and FPLs financial performance could be negatively affected if FPL is unable to recover, in a timely manner, certain costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital from its customers through regulated rates and cost recovery clauses.
FPL Group and FPL are subject to federal regulatory compliance and proceedings which have significant compliance costs and expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions.
.
FPL Group and FPL may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity
FPL Groups and FPLs businesses are subject to risks associated with legislative and regulatory initiatives.
 
 
3
 
FPL Group and FPL are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require capital expenditures, increase their cost of operations and may expose them to liabilities.
 
FPL Groups and FPLs businesses could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of GHG emissions.
 
      create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances;
The operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities involve risks that could result in fines or the closure of nuclear units owned by FPL or NextEra Energy Resources and in increased costs and capital expenditures.
 
 
4
 
 
FPL Groups and FPLs operating results could suffer if they do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, and capital improvements to, generation, transmission, distribution and other facilities on schedule and within budget.
The operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involve significant risks that could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL.
 
 
 
5
 
 
FPL Groups competitive energy business is subject to development and operating risks that could limit the revenue growth of this business and have other negative effects on FPL Groups results of operations and financial condition.
FPL Groups competitive energy business is dependent on continued public policy support and governmental support for renewable energy, particularly wind and solar projects.
 
 
6
 
 
FPL Group and FPL are subject to credit and performance risk from customers and suppliers.
FPL Groups and FPLs results of operations may continue to be negatively affected by slower customer growth and customer usage in FPLs service area.
FPL Groups and FPLs financial position and
results of operations are subject to risks associated with weather conditions, such as the impact of severe weather.
 
 
7
 
 
Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect FPL Groups and FPLs ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of FPL Group and FPL and exert downward pressure on the market price of FPL Groups common stock.
FPL Groups, FPL Group Capital Incs (FPL Group Capital) and FPLs inability to maintain their current credit ratings may adversely affect FPL Groups and FPLs liquidity, limit the ability of FPL Group and FPL to grow their businesses, and increase interest costs, while the liquidity of the companies also could be impaired by the inability of their credit providers to maintain their current credit ratings or to fund their credit commitments.
The use of derivative contracts by FPL Group and FPL in the normal course of business could result in financial losses or the payment of margin cash collateral that could adversely affect their results of operations or cash flows.
 
 
8
 
 
FPL Groups ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the power industry.
FPL Group may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to FPL Group or if FPL Group is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries.
 
 
9
 
 
Changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could adversely affect FPL Groups and FPLs results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
FPL Groups and FPLs retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in an adverse impact to their reputation and/or the results of operations of the retail business.
A failure in FPL Groups and FPLs operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair their liquidity, disrupt their businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information and cause losses.
Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt FPL Groups and FPLs businesses may impact the operations of FPL Group and FPL in unpredictable ways and could adversely affect FPL Groups and FPLs results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
 
 
10
 
 
The ability of FPL Group and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers.  FPL Groups and FPLs insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses.
The businesses and results of operations of FPL Group and FPL could be negatively affected by the lack of a qualified workforce, work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs.
Poor market performance and other economic factors could affect FPL Groups and FPLs nuclear decommissioning funds asset value or defined benefit pension plans funded status, which may adversely affect FPL Groups and FPLs liquidity and financial results.
Increasing costs associated with health care plans may adversely affect FPL Group's and FPL's results of operations, financial position and liquidity.
 
 
11
 
The risks described herein are not the only risks facing FPL Group and FPL.  Additional risks and uncertainties also may materially adversely affect FPL Group's or FPL's business, financial condition and/or future operating results.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 21, 2010
 
12
 
 


