FILE:NEE/NEE-8K-20120316161621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of earliest event reported:
  
March 16, 2012
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On March 16, 2012, in accordance with the succession plan:
Mr. Hay has served as the Company's principal executive officer since his appointment as Chief Executive Officer in June 2001. Mr. Hay will continue his current service on the Board as its Chairman.
The information set forth in paragraph (e) of this Item 5.02 is incorporated by reference in this paragraph (b).
On March 16, 2012, in connection with the appointment of Mr. Robo as Chief Executive Officer, the compensation committee of the Board approved the grant to Mr. Robo of equity awards under the NextEra Energy, Inc. 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (the 2011 LTIP), as follows:
In the waiver letter, Mr. Hay has stated that he intends to retire from his position as Executive Chairman effective on December 31, 2013 and has agreed to retire effective on that date or on such other date as the Board and Mr. Hay may otherwise agree. Subject to the conditions described below, Mr. Hay has waived his right under the employment letter to assert that any of the following matters will constitute the basis for a termination by Mr. Hay of his employment for good reason under the employment letter: (1) Mr. Hay ceasing to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective on July 1, 2012; (2) the appointment by the Board of Mr. Hay as Executive Chairman effective on July 1, 2012; (3) the assignment to Mr. Hay by the Board effective on July 1, 2012 or thereafter of duties and responsibilities as Executive Chairman which are materially inconsistent with the duties and responsibilities previously assigned to Mr. Hay by the Board as Chief Executive
2
Officer of the Company; (4) the appointment by the Board of any other individual as Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective on July 1, 2012 or from time to time thereafter; and (5) any reduction in Mr. Hay's target equity compensation for 2013 from the target equity compensation for 2013 to which Mr. Hay would otherwise be entitled under the employment letter.
In the waiver letter, Mr. Hay also has waived his right to receive, and/or to assert that he is, or will be, entitled to receive, any payments or other benefits under or pursuant to his retention agreement as a result of, or in connection with, a change in control or potential change in control of the Company, including, without limitation, any cash payments of (or based on) his base salary, annual incentive, pension benefits or other elements of compensation, accelerated vesting and payout of equity awards outstanding under his equity award agreements and the related incentive plans, and gross-up payments for any excise taxes imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code. Mr. Hay also has waived his right under his equity award agreements and the related incentive plans to receive accelerated vesting and payout of his outstanding equity awards upon any such change in control event. Consistent with his current rights under his equity award agreements and such plans, Mr. Hay will become vested in the then-unvested portion of the equity awards outstanding thereunder if, upon any such event, such awards are not replaced, assumed or continued pursuant to such agreements and plans.
The waiver and other agreements by Mr. Hay in the waiver letter are conditioned upon fulfillment by the Company of the following undertakings, among others, to which it has agreed with Mr. Hay in the waiver letter:
The foregoing description of the waiver letter is qualified by reference to the text of the waiver letter, which is filed as Exhibit 10(b) to this report and incorporated by reference in this paragraph (e).
Amendments to 2011 LTIP
Also on March 16, 2012, the Board approved amendments to the 2011 LTIP to provide as follows:
The foregoing description of the 2011 LTIP amendments, which are contained in Sections 2.20, 4.3, 5.1, 8.2, 8.4, 9.2, 10.2 and 11.1 of the 2011 LTIP, is qualified by reference to the text of the 2011 LTIP, as restated to reflect the amendments, which is filed as Exhibit 10(c) to this report and incorporated by reference in this paragraph (e).
SECTION 7 - REGULATION FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 16, 2012, the Company issued a news release announcing certain of the matters reported in Item 5.02 of this report and reaffirming its long-term growth expectations.  The Company's news release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01.
3
SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits.
The Company herewith files the following Exhibits10(a), 10(b) and 10(c) and furnishes the following Exhibit 99:
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
NextEra Energy, Inc.
(Registrant)
Date:  March 16, 2012
4

Exhibit 10(a)
Form of
NEXTERA ENERGY, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED
2011 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
DEFERRED STOCK AWARD
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated [date], between NextEra Energy, Inc. (hereinafter called the "Company") and [name] (hereinafter called the "Grantee").
1.
    
Grant of Deferred Stock Award
. The Company hereby grants to the Grantee as of the date hereof (the Effective Date), a Deferred Stock Award initially consisting of
[______]
shares of common stock of the Company, par value $.01 per share (Common Stock), which shares shall be subject to the restrictions noted below. The number of shares of Common Stock comprising the Deferred Stock Award from time to time shall be referred to in this Agreement as the "Deferred Stock." The Deferred Stock, together with any dividends or other earnings or proceeds derived therefrom, shall be referred to in this Agreement as the "Deferred Stock Award."
2.
    
Issuance of Shares.
    
Subject to the limitations and other terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Company's 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan (as amended from time to time, the "Plan"), on, or within thirty (30) days following, the last day of the Deferral Period the Company shall issue, in the manner and from the Common Stock authorized under the Plan, the Deferred Stock.
3.
    
Dividends and Other Income.
In the event a dividend is payable on Common Stock in additional shares of Common Stock, an amount denominated in shares of Common Stock equal to such dividend shall, as of the
ex dividend
date for such dividend, become part of the Deferred Stock Award for all purposes of this Agreement. In the event a dividend on Common Stock is payable in property other than cash or Common Stock, an amount equal to such dividend shall, as of the
ex dividend
date for such dividend, become part of the Deferred Stock Award for all purposes of this Agreement, unless the committee constituted for purposes of section 3.1.2 of the Plan (the 2011 LTIP Committee) directs that such property be deemed to be reinvested in additional shares of Common Stock. In the event a dividend on Common Stock is payable in cash, such dividend shall, as of the
ex dividend
date for such dividend, become part of the Deferred Stock Award for all purposes of this Agreement. Unless the 2011 LTIP Committee directs otherwise, cash dividends paid with respect to Deferred Stock and any property comprising the Deferred Stock Award payable on or after the Effective Date shall be deemed to be applied to the purchase of additional shares of Common Stock on the dividend payment date, at a price equal to the closing price of the Common Stock on the dividend payment date
.
4.
    
No Voting and other Shareholders' Rights.
Unless otherwise determined by the 2011 LTIP Committee, the Grantee shall have no rights as a shareholder or other rights appurtenant to the Deferred Stock Award.
5.
    
Deferral Period.
(a)
    
The Common Stock shall not be distributed or distributable to the Grantee in satisfaction of the Deferred Stock Award prior to the end of a deferral period which shall begin on the Effective Date and end on:
(i)
    
January 1st of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Grantee experiences a Separation from Service; or
(ii)
    
if later and the Grantee is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder), the date which is six (6) months and one (1) day after the Grantee's Separation from Service
(the "Deferral Period"). For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Separation from Service" shall have the meaning assigned to it under section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(b)
    
On or within ten (10) days following the last day of the Deferral Period, the Vested Portion of the Deferred Stock Award (as determined in accordance with section 6 of this Agreement) shall be distributed to the Grantee (or in the event of the Grantee's death, to his beneficiary determined in accordance with the terms of this Agreement). To the extent the Deferred Stock Award is deemed to consist of shares of Common Stock, such distribution shall be made in kind. To the extent the Deferred Stock Award is deemed to consist of property other than cash or Common Stock, such distribution shall be made in cash unless the 2011 LTIP Committee directs otherwise. If the Deferred Stock Award consists of cash or other property in addition to Deferred Stock, such distribution shall be applied proportionately to each asset included in the Deferred Stock Award, unless the 2011 LTIP Committee determines otherwise.
6.
    
Vesting.
(a)
    
In General. Except as otherwise provided in this section 6, the Vested Portion of the Deferred Stock Award shall be (i) 0%, if the Grantee's Separation from Service occurs prior to [date]; (ii) 50%, if the Grantee's Separation from Service occurs on or after [date] and prior to [date] and (ii) 100%, if the Grantee's Separation from Service occurs on or after [date].
(b)
    
Vesting due to the Death or Disability of the Grantee.
If the Grantee's Separation from Service results from the Grantee's death or Disability, the Vested Portion of the Deferred Stock Award shall be the greater of the (i) percentage determined under section 6(a) of this Agreement or (ii) the percentage determined under the following table:
Disability shall be considered to exist at the Grantee's Separation from Service if, on such date, the Grantee is suffering from a medical condition which qualifies him (or would, upon completion of any applicable waiting or elimination period, qualify him) for benefits under the NextEra Energy, Inc. Long Term Disability Plan for Executives as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
(c)
    
Vesting Due to a Change in Control
.
In the event of a Change in Control, followed by the Grantee's Involuntary Discharge without Cause or Resignation with Good Reason, the Vested Portion of the Deferred Stock Award shall be the greater of the (i) percentage determined under section 6(a) of this Agreement or (ii) the percentage determined under the following table:
For purposes of this section 6(c), the terms "Change in Control," "Involuntary Discharge without Cause" and "Resignation with Good Reason" shall have the meanings assigned to them in section 8. With respect to the Deferred Stock Award granted hereunder, the provisions of this section 6(c) shall supersede the provisions of that certain Amended and Restated Executive Retention and Employment Agreement between the Grantee and the Company effective December 10, 2009, as such may be amended (Retention Agreement), and the Grantee specifically acknowledges and agrees that the terms and conditions of the Retention Agreement shall not apply to this Deferred Stock Award.
7.
    
Forfeitures.
(a)
    
If, on the date of the Grantee's Separation from Service, the Vested Portion of the Deferred Stock Award is less than 100%, the portion of the Deferred Stock Award that is not vested shall be forfeited and shall not be eligible to be reinstated in the event the Grantee is subsequently re-employed. If the Deferred Stock Award is deemed to consist of cash or other property in addition to Deferred Stock, the forfeiture shall be applied proportionately to each asset included in the Deferred Stock Award, unless the 2011 LTIP Committee determines otherwise.
(b)
    
If, at any time, the Grantee violates any of the provisions of section 15, the Grantee shall forfeit his entire interest, vested and unvested, in any portion of the Deferred Stock Award that has not been distributed.
8.
    
Certain Defined Terms.
(a)
    
For all purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
(b)
    
For all purposes of this Agreement, "Involuntary Discharge without Cause" shall mean a
termination of employment by the Company that is not for "Cause" described in section 7(b) of the Retention Agreement as in effect on the date of this Agreement or the result of the Grantee's death or Disability.
(c)
    
For purposes of this Agreement, "Resignation with Good Reason" shall mean the Grantee's voluntary resignation under the circumstances described in section 7(c) of the Retention Agreement as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
(d)
    
Any other capitalized term used in this Agreement but not defined herein shall have the meaning given to such term in the Plan.
9.
    
Tax Withholding
. Upon vesting, distribution, or any other taxable event in relation to the Deferred Stock, the Company shall be authorized, in order to meet the Company's obligations for the payment of withholding taxes (including federal and state income taxes and payroll taxes applicable to the taxable income relating to such event), to remit the minimum required withholding taxes to the appropriate tax authority on the Grantee's behalf and to deduct the amount so remitted from the Deferred Stock Award. Unless the 2011 LTIP Committee determines otherwise, any such deduction shall be applied first to cash balances included in the Deferred Stock Award, second (if necessary) to assets other than cash and Deferred Stock that comprise the Deferred Stock Award and third (if necessary) to Deferred Stock. Deductions applied to property other than cash shall be based on the fair market value of the property as of the date of withholding.
10.
    
Compliance with Laws and Regulations.
(a)
    
The Deferred Stock Award is intended to be, to the maximum extent permitted under Applicable Laws, an unfunded, non-qualified plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for highly compensated employees, as contemplated by sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of ERISA. The Deferred Stock Award is not intended to comply with the requirements of section 401(a) of the Code or to be subject to Parts 2, 3, and 4 of Title I of ERISA. The Deferred Stock Award shall be administered and construed so as to effectuate this intent.
(b)
    
The Deferred Stock Award is further intended to be a non-qualified deferred compensation plan described in section 409A of the Code. The Deferred Stock Award shall be operated, administered, and construed to comply with the requirements of section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder. In addition, the Deferred Stock Award shall be subject to amendment, with or without advance notice to the Grantee and other interested parties, and on a prospective or retroactive basis, including but not limited amendment in a manner that adversely affects the rights of the Grantee and other interested parties, to the extent necessary to effect such compliance.
11.
    
Designation of Beneficiary
. The Grantee may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries (which may be an entity other than a natural person) to receive payments and other distributions in respect of the Deferred Stock Award upon the Grantee's death. At any time, and from time to time, any such designation may be changed or canceled by the Grantee without the consent of any beneficiary. Any such designation, change or cancellation must be by written notice filed with the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company and shall not be effective until received by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company. If the Grantee designates more than one beneficiary, such beneficiaries shall receive an equal portion of any distribution, unless the Grantee has designated otherwise, in which case each beneficiary shall receive the portion designated by the Grantee. If no beneficiary has been named by the Grantee, the Grantee's beneficiary shall be the executor or administrator of the Grantee's estate.
12.
    
Nonassignability
. The Grantee's rights and interest in the Deferred Stock and other vested
balances may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, exchanged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of prior to the expiration of the Deferral Period except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
13.
    
Effect Upon Employment
. This Deferred Stock Award is not to be construed as giving any right to the Grantee for continuous employment by the Company or a Subsidiary or other Affiliate. The Company and its Subsidiaries and other Affiliates retain the right to terminate the Grantee at will and with or without cause at any time (subject to any rights the Grantee may have under the Retention Agreement).
14.
    
Successors
. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon the Company and the Grantee and their respective heirs, successors and assigns. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
15.
    
Protective Covenants
. In consideration of the Deferred Stock Award granted under this Agreement, the Grantee covenants and agrees as follows (the "Protective Covenants"):
(a)
    
During Grantee's Service with the Company, and for a two-year period following the termination of the Grantee's employment with the Company, Grantee agrees not to (i) compete or attempt to compete for, or act as a broker or otherwise participate in, any projects in which the Company has at any time done any work or undertaken any development efforts or (ii) directly or indirectly solicit any of the Company's customers, vendors, contractors, agents, or any other parties with which the Company has an existing or prospective business relationship, for the benefit of Grantee or for the benefit of any third party, nor shall the Grantee accept consideration or negotiate or enter into agreements with such parties for the benefit of Grantee or any third party.
(b)
    
During Grantee's Service with the Company, and for a two-year period following the termination of the Grantee's Service with the Company, the Grantee shall not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of the Grantee or for any other business, person or entity, entice, induce or solicit or attempt to entice, induce or solicit any employee of the Company to leave the Company's employ or to hire or to cause any employee of the Company to become employed for any reason whatsoever.
(c)
    
Grantee shall not, at any time in the future and in any way, disparage the Company or its current or former officers, directors, and employees, orally or in writing, or make any statements that may be derogatory or detrimental to the Company's good name or business reputation.
(d)
    
Grantee acknowledges that the Company would not have an adequate remedy at law for monetary damages if Grantee breaches these Protective Covenants. Therefore, in addition to all remedies to which the Company may be entitled for a breach or threatened breach of these Protective Covenants, including but not limited to monetary damages, the Company shall be entitled to specific enforcement of these Protective Covenants and to injunctive or other equitable relief as a remedy for a breach or threatened breach. In addition, upon any breach of these Protective Covenants or any separate Confidentiality Agreement between the Company and the Grantee, all rights to receive shares of Common Stock and dividends under this Award shall be forfeited.
(e)
    
For purposes of this section 15, the term Company shall include all
Subsidiaries and other Affiliates of the Company (such Subsidiaries and other Affiliates being hereinafter referred to as the NextEra Entities). The Company and the Grantee agree that each of the NextEra Entities is an intended third-party beneficiary of this section 15, and further agree that each of the NextEra Entities is entitled to enforce the provisions of this section 15 in accordance with its terms.
(f)
    
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the terms of these Protective Covenants shall survive the termination of this Agreement and shall remain in effect.
16.
    
Incorporation of Plan's Terms
. This Agreement is made under and subject to the provisions of the Plan, and all the provisions of the Plan are also provisions of this Agreement, provided, however, (a) if there is a difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the mandatory provisions of the Plan, such mandatory provisions of the Plan shall govern, (b) if there is a difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the non-mandatory provisions of the Plan, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern, and (c) if there is a difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and a provision of the Retention Agreement, such provision of this Agreement shall govern. The Company and 2011 LTIP Committee retain all authority and powers granted by the Plan and not expressly limited by this Agreement. The Grantee acknowledges that he may not and shall not rely on any statement of account or other communication or document issued in connection with the Plan other than the Plan, this Agreement, and any document signed by an authorized representative of the Company that is designated as an amendment of the Plan or this Agreement.
17.
    
Interpretation
. The Committee shall have the authority to interpret and construe all provisions of this Agreement, and any such interpretation or construction, and any other determination contemplated to be made under the Plan or this Agreement, by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive, absent manifest error.
18.
    
Governing Law/Jurisdiction/Waiver of Jury Trial.
This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida, without regard to its conflict of laws principles. All suits, actions, and proceedings relating to this Agreement or the Plan shall be brought only in the courts of the State of Florida located in Palm Beach County or in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida in West Palm Beach, Florida. The Company and the Grantee hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of the courts described in this section 18 for the purpose of all suits, actions, and proceedings relating to the Agreement or the Plan. The Company and the Grantee each waive all objections to venue and to all claims that a court chosen in accordance with this section 18 is improper based on a venue or a forum non conveniens claim.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE PARTIES HEREBY
KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE
ANY RIGHT WHICH ANY PARTY MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY PROCEEDING, LITIGATION OR COUNTERCLAIM BASED ON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT.
19.
    
Amendment.
This Agreement may be amended, in whole or in part and in any manner not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, at any time and from time to time, by written agreement between the Company and the Grantee.
20.
    
Adjustments.
If the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock is increased or decreased or the shares of Common Stock are changed into or exchanged for a different number of shares or kind of
capital stock or other securities of the Company on account of any recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off, combination of stock, exchange of stock, stock dividend or other distribution payable in capital stock, or other increase or decrease in shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, then the number of Deferred Shares shall be adjusted proportionately. Except as otherwise set forth herein, no adjustment shall be made in connection with the payment by the Company of any cash dividend on its Common Stock or in connection with the issuance by the Company of any warrants, rights, or options to acquire additional shares of Common Stock or of securities convertible into Common Stock.
21.
    
Data Privacy
. By entering into this Agreement, the Grantee: (a) authorizes the Company or any of the NextEra Entities, and any agent of the Company or any of the NextEra Entities administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of the NextEra Entities such information and data as the Company or any such NextEra Entities shall reasonably request in order to facilitate the administration of this Agreement; and (b) authorizes the Company or any of the NextEra Entities to store and transmit such information in electronic form, provided such information is appropriately safeguarded in accordance with Company policy.
By signing this Agreement, the Grantee accepts and agrees to all of the foregoing terms and provisions and to all the terms and provisions of the Plan incorporated herein by reference and confirms that the Grantee has received a copy of the Plan.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 10(b)
March 16, 2012
Board of Directors
NextEra Energy, Inc.
700 Universe Boulevard
Juno Beach, FL 33408
Re: Waivers under Certain Agreements
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed change, to be effective on July 1, 2012, in my employment status with NextEra Energy, Inc. (the Corporation) from my current service as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation to my proposed service as Executive Chairman of the Board (the Executive Chairman).
To facilitate my proposed transition from Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to Executive Chairman, I am waiving certain of my rights as specified below under the Amended and Restated Employment Letter dated December 10, 2009 between me and the Corporation (the Employment Letter), the Amended and Restated Executive Retention Employment Agreement effective December 10, 2009 between me and the Corporation (the Retention Agreement), the LTIP and the LTIP Award Agreements (as defined in this letter). Any defined term used but not defined in this letter has the meaning given to that term in the Employment Letter or the Retention Agreement, as applicable.
I hereby irrevocably waive (subject only to the penultimate paragraph of this letter) my right under the Employment Letter to assert that any of the following shall constitute Good Reason under and for purposes of the Employment Letter: (1) my ceasing to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation effective on July 1, 2012; (2) the appointment by the Board of me as Executive Chairman effective on July 1, 2012; (3) the assignment to me by the Board effective on July 1, 2012 or thereafter of duties and responsibilities as Executive Chairman which are materially inconsistent with the duties and responsibilities previously assigned to me by the Board as Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation; (4) the appointment by the Board of any other individual as Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation effective on July 1, 2012 or from time to time thereafter; and (5) any reduction in my target LTIP compensation for 2013 from the target LTIP compensation for 2013 to which I would otherwise be entitled under the Employment Letter.
I also hereby irrevocably waive (subject only to the penultimate paragraph of this letter) my right under the Retention Agreement, the LTIP and all award agreements issued to me from time to time under the LTIP (the LTIP Award Agreements), to receive, and/or to assert that I am, or shall be, entitled to receive, any payments or other benefits as a result of, or in connection with, a Change of Control or a Potential Change of Control (including, without limitation, any Gross-Up Payment) or Change in Control (as defined in the LTIP) that otherwise would be payable to me pursuant to Section 5, 6, 7, 8 or 11, or any other provision, of the Retention Agreement or pursuant any provision of the
LTIP or any LTIP Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, and consistent with my current rights under the LTIP and the LTIP Award Agreements, I will become vested in the then-unvested portion of the awards issued pursuant to the LTIP Award Agreements if, in connection with any such Change of Control or Change in Control, such awards are not replaced, assumed or continued pursuant to the LTIP and the LTIP Award Agreements.
I have today advised the Compensation Committee and the Board that I intend to retire from my position as Executive Chairman effective on December 31, 2013, and I hereby covenant and agree (subject only to the penultimate paragraph of this letter) to retire effective on such date or on such other date as the Board and I may otherwise agree in writing.
In consideration of my waiver of rights under the Employment Letter, the Retention Agreement, the LTIP and the LTIP Award Agreements as set forth in this letter, and of my other covenants and agreements set forth in this letter, the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows: (1) to appoint me as Executive Chairman effective on July 1, 2012; (2) not to materially diminish my duties and responsibilities as Executive Chairman from time to time during the term of my employment under the Employment Letter from the duties and responsibilities set forth on Annex 1 to this letter without my prior written consent; (3) not to set or maintain my target LTIP compensation for 2013 at an amount that is less than 63% of my target LTIP compensation for 2012; (4) upon my retirement from my position as Executive Chairman effective on December 31, 2013 or on such other date as the Board and I may otherwise agree in writing, such retirement shall be deemed to be an Approved Early Retirement for all purposes under the Employment Letter and a corresponding or substantially similar event for all purposes under each of the LTIP Award Agreements; and (5) the occurrence of an Effective Date or Employment Period under the Retention Agreement shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of the Employment Letter or any LTIP Award Agreement, notwithstanding the actual occurrence of facts which would otherwise constitute such an Effective Date or Employment Period. In the event that any of the covenants and agreements of the Corporation specified in clauses (1) through (5) of the preceding sentence is not satisfied, and in addition to any other rights that I may have under the Employment Letter, the Retention Agreement, any LTIP Award Agreement or otherwise, my waivers, covenants and agreements in this letter will, upon written notice given by me to the Corporation reasonably promptly, be null and void as of the date of this letter.
Except as expressly amended by this letter, the terms of the Employment Letter, the Retention Agreement and all LTIP Award Agreements in effect as of the date of this Letter Agreement will remain in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms. This letter will be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the law of the State of Florida, without reference to rules relating to conflicts of law.
Very truly yours,
LEWIS HAY, III
Lewis Hay, III
Accepted and Agreed:
NextEra Energy, Inc.
Annex 1
Duties and Responsibilities as Executive Chairman
A-1

Exhibit 10(c)
NEXTERA ENERGY, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED
2011 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
(AMENDED AND RESTATED MARCH 16, 2012]
NextEra Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation (the Company), sets forth herein the terms of its 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March 16, 2012 (the Plan), as follows:
The Plan is intended to (a) provide eligible persons with an incentive to contribute to the success of the Company and to operate and manage the Company's business in a manner that will provide for the Company's long-term growth and profitability to benefit its shareholders and other important stakeholders, including its employees and customers, and (b) provide a means of obtaining, rewarding and retaining key personnel. To this end, the Plan provides for the grant of awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock units, unrestricted stock, dividend equivalent rights, performance shares and other performance-based awards, and other equity-based awards. Any of these awards may, but need not, be made as performance incentives to reward the holders of such awards for the achievement of performance goals in accordance with the terms of the Plan. Stock options granted under the Plan may be non-qualified stock options or incentive stock options, as provided herein.
For purposes of interpreting the Plan documents (including the Plan and Award Agreements), the following definitions shall apply:
2.1
Affiliate
means any company or other entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 of Regulation C under the Securities Act, including any Subsidiary. For purposes of grants of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, an entity may not be considered an Affiliate unless the Company holds a controlling interest in such entity within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i),
provided
that (a) except as specified in clause (b) below, an interest of at least 50 percent shall be used instead of an interest of at least 80 percent in each case where at least 80 percent appears in Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) and (b) where the grant of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights is based upon a legitimate business criterion, an interest of at least 20 percent shall be used instead of an interest of at least 80 percent in each case where at least 80 percent appears in Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i).
2.2
Applicable Laws
means the legal requirements relating to the Plan and the Awards under (a) applicable provisions of the corporate, securities, tax and other laws, rules, regulations and government orders of any jurisdiction applicable to Awards granted to residents therein and (b) the rules of any Stock Exchange on which the Stock is listed.
2.3
Award
means a grant under the Plan of an Option, a Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, a Deferred Stock Unit, Unrestricted Stock, a Dividend Equivalent Right, a Performance Share or other Performance-Based Award, or an Other Equity-Based Award.
2.4
Award Agreement
means the agreement between the Company and a Grantee that evidences and sets out the terms and conditions of an Award.
2.5
Award Stock
shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 17.3(a)(ii)
.
2.6
Benefit Arrangement
shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 15
.
 
2.7
Board
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.8
Cause
means, with respect to any Grantee, as determined by the Committee and unless otherwise provided in an applicable agreement between such Grantee and the Company or an Affiliate, (a) repeated violations by such Grantee of such Grantee's obligations to the Company or such Affiliate (other than as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness) which are demonstrably willful and deliberate on such Grantee's part, which are committed in bad faith or without reasonable belief that such violations are in the best interests of the Company or such Affiliate and which are not remedied within a reasonable period of time after such Grantee's receipt of written notice from the Company specifying such violations, (b) the conviction of such Grantee of a felony involving an act of dishonesty intended to result in substantial personal enrichment of such Grantee at the expense of the Company or an Affiliate, or (c) prior to a Change in Control, such other events as shall be determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion. Any determination by the Committee whether an event constituting Cause shall have occurred shall be final, binding and conclusive.
2.9
Change in Control
means:
(1) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty percent (20%) or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the Outstanding Company Common Stock) or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the Outstanding Company Voting Securities);
provided, however,
that the following acquisitions (collectively, the Excluded Acquisitions) shall not constitute a Change in Control (it being understood that shares acquired in an Excluded Acquisition may nevertheless be considered in determining whether any subsequent acquisition by such individual, entity or group (other than an Excluded Acquisition) constitutes a Change in Control): (i) any acquisition directly from the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) any acquisition by the Company or any Subsidiary; (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary; (iv) any acquisition by an underwriter temporarily holding Company securities pursuant to an offering of such securities; (v) any acquisition in connection with which, pursuant to Rule 13d-1 promulgated pursuant to the Exchange Act, the individual, entity or group is permitted to, and actually does, report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13G (or any successor Schedule);
provided
that, if any such individual, entity or group subsequently becomes required to or does report its beneficial ownership on Schedule 13D (or any successor Schedule), then, for purposes of this paragraph, such individual, entity or group shall be deemed to have first acquired, on the first date on which such individual, entity or group becomes required to or does so report, beneficial ownership of all of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and/or Outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by it on such date; or (vi) any acquisition in connection with a Business Combination (as hereinafter defined) which, pursuant to subparagraph (3) below, does not constitute a Change in Control; or
(2) Individuals who as of December 10, 2010 constitute the Board (the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board;
provided, however,
that any individual becoming a director subsequent to such date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of an individual, entity or group other than the Board; or
(3) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or other business combination (any of the foregoing, a Business Combination) of the Company or any Subsidiary with any other corporation, in any case with respect to which:
(a) the Outstanding Company Voting Securities outstanding immediately prior to such Business Combination do not, immediately following such Business Combination, continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or being converted into voting securities of the resulting or surviving entity or any ultimate parent thereof) more than fifty-five percent (55%) of the outstanding common stock and of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the resulting or surviving entity (or any ultimate parent thereof); or
(b) less than a majority of the members of the board of directors of the resulting or surviving entity (or any ultimate parent thereof) in such Business Combination (the New Board) consists of individuals (Continuing Directors) who were members of the Incumbent Board (as defined in subparagraph (2) above) immediately prior to consummation of such Business Combination (excluding from Continuing Directors for this purpose, however, any individual whose election or appointment to the Board was at the request, directly or indirectly, of the entity which entered into the definitive agreement with the Company or any Subsidiary providing for such Business Combination); or
(4)(a) Consummation of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, other than to a corporation with respect to which, following such sale or other disposition, more than fifty-five percent (55%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale or other disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such sale or other disposition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities as the case may be; or
(b) shareholder approval of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
The term the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company shall mean
a sale or other disposition transaction or series of related transactions involving assets of the Company or of any Subsidiary (including the stock of any Subsidiary) in which the value of the assets or stock being sold or otherwise disposed of (as measured by the purchase price being paid therefor or by such other method as the Board determines is appropriate in a case where there is no readily ascertainable purchase price) constitutes more than two-thirds of the fair market value of the Company (as hereinafter defined). The fair market value of the Company shall be the aggregate market value of the then Outstanding Company Common Stock (on a fully diluted basis) plus the aggregate market value of the Company's other outstanding equity securities. The aggregate market value of the shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock (on a fully diluted basis) outstanding on the date of the execution and delivery of a definitive agreement with respect to the transaction or series of related transactions (the Transaction Date) by the average closing price of the shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock for the ten trading days immediately preceding the Transaction Date. The aggregate market value of any other equity securities of the Company shall be determined in a manner similar to that prescribed in the immediately preceding sentence for determining the aggregate market value of the shares of Outstanding Company Common Stock or by such other method as the Board shall determine is appropriate.
2.10
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as now in effect or as hereafter amended, and any successor thereto.
2.11
Committee
means a committee of, and designated from time to time by resolution of, the Board, which shall be constituted as provided in
Section 3.1.2
and
Section 3.1.3
(or, if no Committee has been so designated, the Board). The Delegated Officer shall be deemed to constitute a Committee, and references in the Plan to Committee shall mean the Delegated Officer to the extent consistent with the powers and authorities given to the Delegated Officer in
Section 3.1.3
.
2.12
Company
means NextEra Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation.
 
2.13
Covered Employee
means a Grantee who is a covered employee within the meaning of Code Section 162(m)(3).
2.14
Deferred Stock Unit
means a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent of one (1) share of Stock awarded to a Grantee pursuant to
Section 10
that (a) is not subject to vesting, or (b) is subject to time-based vesting, but not to performance-based vesting. A Deferred Stock Unit may also be referred to as a restricted stock unit.
2.15
Delegated Officer
shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.1.3
.
2.16
Determination Date
means the Grant Date or such other date as of which the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock is required to be established for purposes of the Plan.
2.17
Disability
means any condition as a result of which a Grantee is determined to be totally disabled for purposes of (a) the Company's executive long-term disability plan, for Grantees who participate in such plan, or (b) the Company's long-term disability plan, for Grantees who do not participate in the Company's executive long-term disability plan.
2.18
Dividend Equivalent Right
means a right, granted to a Grantee pursuant to
Section 13
, to receive cash, Stock, other Awards or other property equal in value to dividends or other periodic payments paid or made with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock.
2.19
Employee
means, as of any date of determination, an employee (including an officer) of the Company or an Affiliate.
2.20
Effective Date
means May 20, 2011, the date on which the original Plan was approved by the Company's shareholders. The effective date of the amendment and restatement of the Plan means March 16, 2012, the date the amendment and restatement was approved by the Board.
2.21
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as now in effect or as hereafter amended.
2.22
Fair Market Value
means the fair market value of a share of Stock for purposes of the Plan, which shall be determined as of any Determination Date as follows:
(a) If on such Determination Date the shares of Stock are listed on a Stock Exchange, or are publicly traded on another established securities market (a Securities Market), the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the closing price of the Stock on such Determination Date as reported on such Stock Exchange or such Securities Market (
provided
that, if there is more than one such Stock Exchange or Securities Market, the Committee shall designate the appropriate Stock Exchange or Securities Market for purposes of the Fair Market Value determination). If there is no such reported closing price on such Determination Date, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the closing price of the Stock on the next preceding day on which any sale of Stock shall have been reported on such Stock Exchange or such Securities Market.
(b) If on such Determination Date the shares of Stock are not listed on a Stock Exchange or publicly traded on a Securities Market, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the value of the Stock on such Determination Date as determined by the Committee by the reasonable application of a reasonable valuation method, in a manner consistent with Code Section 409A.
Notwithstanding this
Section 2.22
or
Section 18.3
, for purposes of determining taxable income and the amount of the related tax withholding obligation pursuant to
Section 18.3
, for any shares of Stock subject to an Award that are sold by or on behalf of a Grantee on the same date on which such shares may first be sold pursuant to the terms of the related Award Agreement, the Fair Market Value of such shares shall be the sale price of such shares on such date (or if sales of such shares are effectuated at more than one sale price, the weighted average sale price of such shares on such date).
 
2.23
Grant Date
means, as determined by the Committee, (a) the date as of which the Committee completes the corporate action constituting the Award or (b) such date subsequent to the date specified in clause (a) above as may be specified by the Committee.
2.24
Grantee
means a person who receives or holds an Award under the Plan.
2.25
Incentive Stock Option
means an incentive stock option within the meaning of Code Section 422, or the corresponding provision of any subsequently enacted tax statute, as amended from time to time.
2.26
Non-qualified Stock Option
means an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
2.27
Option
means an option to purchase one or more shares of Stock pursuant to the Plan.
2.28
Option Price
means the exercise price for each share of Stock subject to an Option.
2.29
Other Agreement
shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 15
.
2.30
Outside Director
means a member of the Board who is not an Employee.
2.31
Other Equity-Based Award
means an Award representing a right or other interest that may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Stock, other than an Option, a Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, a Deferred Stock Unit, Unrestricted Stock, a Dividend Equivalent Right or a Performance Share.
2.32
Performance-Based Compensation
means compensation under an Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for qualified performance-based compensation paid to Covered Employees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in the Plan shall be construed to mean that an Award which does not satisfy the requirements for qualified performance-based compensation within the meaning of and pursuant to Code Section 162(m) does not constitute performance-based compensation for other purposes, including the purposes of Code Section 409A.
2.33
Performance-Based Award
means an Award of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Performance Shares or Other Equity-Based Awards made subject to the achievement of performance goals (as provided in
Section 14
) over a Performance Period specified by the Committee.
2.34
Performance Measures
means measures as specified in
Section 14
on which the performance goals under Performance-Based Awards are based and which are approved by the Company's shareholders pursuant to, and to the extent required by, the Plan in order to qualify such Performance-Based Awards as Performance-Based Compensation.
2.35
Performance Period
means the period of time during which the performance goals under Performance-Based Awards must be met in order to determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to any such Performance-Based Awards.
2.36
Performance Shares
means a Performance-Based Award representing a right or other interest that may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Stock, made subject to the achievement of performance goals (as provided in
Section 14
) over a Performance Period of up to ten (10) years.
2.37
Plan
means this NextEra Energy, Inc. 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
 
2.38
Prior Plan
means the NextEra Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan.
2.39
Reporting Person
means a person who is required to file reports under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, or any successor provision.
2.40
Restricted Period
shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 10.2
.
2.41
Restricted Stock
means shares of Stock awarded to a Grantee pursuant to
Section 10
.
2.42
SAR Price
shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 9.1
.
2.43
Securities Act
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as now in effect or as hereafter amended.
2.44
Service
means service of a Grantee as an Employee or, following termination of such Grantee's service as an Employee, service of such Grantee as a member of the Board or of the board of directors or similar governing body of any Affiliate. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, in another agreement with the Grantee or otherwise in writing, such Grantee's change in position or duties with the Company or any Affiliate shall not result in interrupted or terminated Service, so long as the Grantee continues to be an Employee or, if such Grantee ceases to be an Employee, continues to serve as a member of the Board or of the board of directors or similar governing body of any Affiliate. Any determination by the Committee whether a termination of Service shall have occurred for purposes of the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive.
2.45
Stock
means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company, or any security which shares of Stock may be changed into or for which shares of Stock may be exchanged as provided in
Section 17.1
.
2.46
Stock Appreciation Right
or
SAR
means a right granted to a Grantee pursuant to
Section 9
.
2.47
Stock Exchange
means the New York Stock Exchange or another established national or regional stock exchange.
2.48
Subsidiary
means any corporation (other than the Company) or non-corporate entity with respect to which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock, membership interests or other ownership interests of any class or kind ordinarily having the power to vote for the directors, managers or other voting members of the governing body of such corporation or non-corporate entity. In addition, any other entity may be designated by the Committee as a Subsidiary,
provided
that (a) such entity could be considered as a subsidiary according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and (b) in the case of an Award of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, such Award would be considered to be granted in respect of service recipient stock under Code Section 409A.
2.49
Substitute Award
means an Award granted upon assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted under a compensatory plan by a business entity acquired or to be acquired by the Company or an Affiliate or with which the Company or an Affiliate has combined or will combine.
2.50
Ten Percent Shareholder
means a natural person who owns more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding voting securities of the Company, the Company's parent (if any) or any of the Company's Subsidiaries. In determining stock ownership, the attribution rules of Code Section 424(d) shall be applied.
2.51
Unrestricted Stock
shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11
.
 
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in the Plan to including shall mean including without limitation.
References in the Plan to any Code Section shall be deemed to include, as applicable, regulations promulgated under such Code Section.
The Committee shall administer the Plan and shall have such powers and authorities related to the administration of the Plan as are consistent with the Company's restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and Applicable Laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall have full power and authority to take all actions and to make all determinations required or provided for under the Plan, any Award or any Award Agreement, and shall have full power and authority to take all such other actions and make all such other determinations not inconsistent with the specific terms and provisions of the Plan which the Committee deems to be necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan, any Award or any Award Agreement. All such actions and determinations shall be made by (a) the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, or (b) the unanimous consent of the members of the Committee executed in writing in accordance with the Company's restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and Applicable Laws. Unless otherwise expressly determined by the Board, the Committee shall have the authority to interpret and construe all provisions of the Plan, any Award and any Award Agreement, and any such interpretation or construction, and any other determination contemplated to be made
under the Plan or any Award Agreement, by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive whether or not expressly provided for in any provision of the Plan, such Award or such Award Agreement.
In the event that the Plan, any Award or any Award Agreement provides for any action to be taken by the Board or any determination to be made by the Board, such action may be taken or such determination may be made by the Committee (including the Delegated Officer) constituted in accordance with this
Section 3.1
if the Board has delegated the power and authority to do so to such Committee (including the Delegated Officer).
The Committee shall be a committee composed of not fewer than two directors of the Company designated by the Board to administer the Plan. Each member of the Committee shall be a Non-Employee Director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, an outside director within the meaning of Code Section 162(m)(4)(C)(i) and, for so long as the Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, an independent director within the meaning of Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual (or, in each case, any successor term or provision);
provided
, that any action taken by the Committee shall be valid and effective whether or not members of the Committee at the time of such action are later determined not to have satisfied the requirements for membership set forth in this
Section 3.1.2
or otherwise provided in any charter of the Committee. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee may be the Compensation Committee of the Board or a subcommittee thereof if the Compensation Committee of the Board or such subcommittee satisfies the foregoing requirements.
The Board also may appoint one or more committees of the Board, each composed of two or more directors of the Company who need not be Outside Directors, which may administer the Plan with respect to Employees who are not executive officers as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act or directors of the Company, may grant Awards under the Plan to such Employees, and may determine all terms of such Awards, subject to the requirements of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, Code Section 162(m) and, for so long as the Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The Board also may appoint (a) a committee, composed of two or more directors of the Company or (b) a senior executive officer of the Company (the 
Delegated Officer
) (as contemplated by Florida Statutes section 607.0825(1)(e) or any successor statute thereto), which may administer the Plan with respect to Employees who are not subject to either the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act or the short-swing trading provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and are not Covered Employees, including making grants of Awards under the Plan to such Employees and determining all terms of such Awards.
The Board from time to time may exercise any or all of the powers and authorities related to the administration and implementation of the Plan, as set forth in
Section 3.1
and other applicable provisions of the Plan, as the Board shall determine, consistent with the Company's restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and Applicable Laws.
Subject to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full and final authority to:
(a) designate Grantees;
(b) determine the type or types of Awards to be made to a Grantee;
(c) determine the number of shares of Stock to be subject to an Award;
(d) establish the terms and conditions of each Award (including the Option Price of any Option), the nature and duration of any restriction or condition (or provision for lapse thereof) relating to the vesting, exercise, transfer, or forfeiture of an Award or the shares of Stock subject thereto, the treatment of an Award in the event of a Change in Control (subject to applicable agreements), and any terms or conditions that may be necessary to qualify Options as Incentive Stock Options;
(e) prescribe the form of each Award Agreement evidencing an Award; and
(f) subject to the limitation on repricing in Section 3.4, amend, modify or supplement the terms of any outstanding Award, which authority shall include the authority, in order to effectuate the purposes of the Plan but without amending the Plan, to make Awards or to modify outstanding Awards made to eligible natural persons who are foreign nationals or are natural persons who are employed outside the United States to reflect differences in local law, tax policy, or custom,
provided
that, notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment, modification or supplement of the terms of any outstanding Award shall, without the consent of the
Grantee thereof, impair the Grantee's rights under such Award.
The Committee shall have the right, in its discretion, to make Awards in substitution or exchange for any award granted under another compensatory plan of the Company, any Affiliate, or any business entity acquired or to be acquired by the Company or an Affiliate or with which the Company or an Affiliate has combined or will combine.
The Committee may reserve the right in an Award Agreement to cause a forfeiture of the gain realized by a Grantee with respect to an Award thereunder on account of actions taken by, or failed to be taken by, such Grantee in violation or breach of or in conflict with any (a) employment agreement, (b) non-competition agreement, (c) agreement prohibiting solicitation of Employees or clients of the Company or any Affiliate, (d) confidentiality obligation with respect to the Company or any Affiliate, (e) Company policy or procedure (including the Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and the Code of Ethics for Senior Executive & Financial Officers), (f) other agreement or (g) any other obligation of such Grantee to the Company or any Affiliate, as and to the extent specified in such Award Agreement. The Committee may annul an outstanding Award if the Grantee thereof is an Employee and is terminated for Cause as defined in the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement or for cause as defined in any other agreement between the Company or such Affiliate and such Grantee, as applicable.
Any Award granted pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to mandatory repayment by the Grantee to the Company to the extent the Grantee is, or in the future becomes, subject to (a) any Company clawback or recoupment policy that is adopted to comply with the requirements of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or otherwise, or (b) any law, rule or regulation which imposes mandatory recoupment under circumstances set forth in such law, rule or regulation.
Except in connection with a corporate transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares of Stock, other securities or other property), stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, change in control, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of shares of Stock or other securities or similar transaction), the Company may not, without obtaining stockholder approval: (a) amend the terms of outstanding Options or SARs to reduce the exercise price of such outstanding Options or SARs; (b) cancel outstanding Options or SARs in exchange for Options or SARs with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Options or SARs; or (c) cancel outstanding Options or SARs with an exercise price above the current stock price in exchange for cash or other securities.
The Committee may permit or require the deferral of any payment pursuant to any Award into a deferred compensation arrangement, subject to such rules and procedures as it may establish, which may include provisions for the payment or crediting of interest or Dividend Equivalent Rights and, in connection therewith, provisions for converting such credits into Deferred Stock Units and for restricting deferrals to comply with hardship distribution rules affecting tax-qualified retirement plans subject to Code Section 401(k)(2)(B)(IV),
provided
that no Dividend Equivalent Rights may be granted in connection with, or related to, an Award of Options or SARs. Any such deferrals shall be made in a manner that complies with Code Section 409A.
No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award or Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the ownership of the shares of Stock issued under the Plan may be evidenced in such a manner as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, including by book-entry or direct registration (including transaction advices) or the issuance of one or more share certificates.
(a) Subject to such additional shares of Stock as shall be available for issuance under the Plan pursuant to
Section 4.2
, and subject to adjustment pursuant to
Section 17
, the maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall be equal to 14 million shares, plus the number of shares of Stock subject to awards outstanding under the Prior Plan as of the Effective Date which thereafter terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such shares.
(b) The maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance pursuant to Incentive Stock Options shall be the same as the maximum number of shares available for issuance under the Plan pursuant to
Section 4.1(a)
.
(c) Shares of Stock to be issued under the Plan shall be authorized but unissued shares, or, to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws, shares of treasury stock or issued shares that have been reacquired by the Company.
In connection with mergers, reorganizations, separations, or other transactions to which Code Section 424(a) applies, the Committee shall have the right to cause the Company to assume awards previously granted under a compensatory plan by another business entity that is a party to such transaction and to substitute Awards under the Plan for such awards. The number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan pursuant to
Section 4.1(a)
shall be increased by the number of shares of Stock subject to any such assumed awards and substitute Awards. Shares available for issuance under a shareholder-approved plan of a business entity that is a party to such transaction (as appropriately adjusted, if necessary, to reflect such transaction) may be used for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the number of shares of Stock otherwise available for issuance under the Plan, subject to applicable rules of any Stock Exchange on which the Stock is listed.
(a) Shares of Stock subject to an Award shall be counted as used as of the Grant Date.
(b) Any shares of Stock that are subject to Awards, including shares of Stock acquired through dividend reinvestment pursuant to
Section 10.4
, shall be counted against the share issuance limit set forth in
Section 4.1(a)
as one (1) share of Stock for every one (1) share of Stock subject to an Award. With respect to SARs, the number of shares subject to an Award of SARs will be counted against the aggregate number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan regardless of the number of shares actually issued to settle the SAR upon exercise. The target number of shares issuable under a Performance Share grant shall be counted against the share issuance limit set forth in
Section 4.1(a)
as of the Grant Date, but such number shall be adjusted to equal the actual number of shares issued upon settlement of the Performance Shares to the extent different from such target number of shares
.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Section 4.3(a)
or
Section 4.3(b)
, any shares of Stock subject to Awards under the Plan which thereafter terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise, without the issuance of such shares, shall be available again for issuance under the Plan.
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Section 4
, the number of shares of Stock (i) tendered or withheld or subject to an Award surrendered in connection with the purchase of shares of Stock upon exercise of an Option as provided in
Section 12.2
, (ii) deducted or delivered from payment of an Award in connection with the Company's tax withholding obligations as provided in
Section 18.3
or (iii) purchased by the Company with proceeds from Option exercises will not increase the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan.
The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date, except that the Plan as amended and restated shall be effective as of March 16, 2012. Following the Effective Date, no awards shall be made under the Prior Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares of Stock reserved under the Prior Plan to settle awards, including performance-based awards, which are made under the Prior Plan prior to the Effective Date may be issued and delivered following the Effective Date to settle such awards.
The Plan shall terminate automatically ten (10) years after the Effective Date and may be terminated on any earlier date as provided in
Section 5.3
.
The Board may, at any time and from time to time, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan as to any shares of Stock as to which Awards have not been made. The effectiveness of any amendment to the Plan shall be contingent on approval of such amendment by the Company's shareholders to the extent provided by the Board or required by Applicable Laws (including the rules of any Stock Exchange on which the Stock is then listed),
provided
that no amendment shall be made to the no-repricing provisions of
Section 3.4
or the Option pricing provisions of
Section 8.1
without the approval of the Company's shareholders. No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair rights or obligations under any Award theretofore made under the Plan without the consent of the Grantee thereof.
Subject to this
Section 6
, Awards may be made under the Plan to any Employee, as the Committee shall determine and designate from time to time.
During any time when the Company has a class of equity securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act:
(a) the maximum number of shares of Stock subject to Options or SARs that may be granted under the Plan in a calendar year to any person eligible for an Award under
Section 6
is 4.66 million shares; and
(b) the maximum number of shares of Stock that may be granted under the Plan, other than pursuant to Options or SARs, in a calendar year to any person eligible for an Award under
Section 6
is 2.33 million shares.
The preceding limitations in this
Section 6.2
are subject to adjustment as provided in
Section 17
.
Subject to
Section 3.4
, Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, (a) any other Award, (b) any award granted under another plan of the Company, any Affiliate, or any business entity that has been a party to a transaction with the Company or any Affiliate, or (c) any other right of a Grantee to receive payment from the Company or any Affiliate. Such additional, tandem and substitute or exchange Awards may be granted at any time. If an Award is granted in substitution or exchange for another Award, or for an award granted under another plan of the Company, any Affiliate, or any business entity that has been a party to a transaction with the Company or any Affiliate, the Committee shall require the surrender of such other Award or award under such other plan in consideration for the grant of such substitute or exchange Award. In addition, Awards may be granted in lieu of cash compensation, including in lieu of cash payments under other plans of the Company or any Affiliate. Notwithstanding
Section 8.1
and
Section 9.1
, but subject to
Section 3.4
, the Option Price of an Option or the grant price of an SAR that is a Substitute Award may be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the original Grant Date;
provided
that the Option Price or grant price is determined in accordance with the principles of Code Section 424 for any Incentive Stock Option and consistent with Code Section 409A for any other Option or SAR.
Each Award granted pursuant to the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement, which shall be in such form or forms as the Committee shall from time to time determine. Award Agreements employed under the Plan from time to time or at the same time need not contain similar provisions, but shall be consistent with the terms of the Plan. Each Award Agreement evidencing an Award of Options shall specify whether such Options are intended to be Non-qualified Stock Options or Incentive Stock Options, and, in the absence of such specification, such Options shall be deemed to constitute Non-qualified Stock Options.
The Option Price of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee and stated in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option. Except in the case of Substitute Awards, the Option Price of each Option shall be at least the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock on the Grant Date;
provided
that in the event that a Grantee is a Ten Percent Shareholder, the Option Price of an Option granted to such Grantee that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option shall be not less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock on the Grant Date. In no case shall the Option Price of any Option be less than the par value of a share of Stock.
Subject to
Sections 8.3
and
17.3
, each Option granted under the Plan shall become exercisable at such times and under such conditions as shall be determined by the Committee and stated in the Award Agreement, in another agreement with the Grantee or otherwise in writing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards of Options that vest solely by the passage of time shall not vest in full in less than three (3) years from the Grant Date (but may vest pro-rata during such period on a daily, monthly, annual or other basis);
provided,
that up to five percent (5%) of the maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be granted pursuant to the Plan without being subject to the foregoing restrictions and the restrictions set forth in
Sections 9.2
and
10.2
. The foregoing five percent (5%) share issuance limit shall be subject to adjustment consistent with the adjustment provisions of
Section 17
and the share usage rules of
Section 4.3
.
Each Option granted under the Plan shall terminate, and all rights to purchase shares of Stock thereunder shall cease, upon the expiration of ten (10) years from the Grant Date of such Option, or under such circumstances and on such date prior thereto as is set forth in the Plan or as may be fixed by the Committee and stated in the Award Agreement relating to such Option;
provided,
that in the event that the Grantee is a Ten Percent Shareholder, an Option granted to such Grantee that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option shall not be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from its Grant Date.
Each Award Agreement with respect to the grant of an Option shall set forth the extent to which the Grantee thereof, if at all, shall have the right to exercise such Option following termination of such Grantee's Service. If the Committee accelerates vesting of an Option, except (a) in the case of a Grantee's death or disability, (b) acceleration required by binding commitments or agreements entered into by the Company prior to March 16, 2012, the effective date of the amendment and restatement of the Plan or (c) as specified in
Section 17.3
, the shares of Stock subject to such Option shall be deducted from the five percent (5%) share issuance limit set forth in
Sections 8.2
,
9.2
,
and
10.2
.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, in no event may any Option be exercised, in whole or in part, after the occurrence of an event referred to in
Section 17
which results in the termination of such Option.
Subject to the terms of
Section 12
and
Section 18.3
, an Option that is exercisable may be exercised by the Grantee's delivery to the Company or its designee or agent of notice of exercise on any business day, at the Company's principal office or the office of such designee or agent, on the form specified by the Company and in accordance with any additional procedures specified by the Committee. Such notice shall specify the number of shares of Stock with respect to which such Option is being exercised and shall be accompanied by payment in full of the Option Price of the shares of Stock for which such Option is being exercised plus the amount (if any) of federal and/or other taxes which the Company may, in its judgment, be required to withhold with respect to the exercise of such Option.
Unless otherwise stated in the applicable Award Agreement, a Grantee or other person holding or exercising an Option shall have none of the rights of a shareholder of the Company (for example, the right to receive cash or dividend payments or distributions attributable to the shares of Stock subject to such Option, to direct the voting of the shares of Stock subject to such Option, or to receive notice of any meeting of the Company's shareholders) until the shares of Stock subject thereto are fully paid and issued to such Grantee or other person. Except as provided in
Section 17
, no adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights with respect to any shares of Stock subject to an Option for which the record date is prior to the date of issuance of such shares of Stock.
Promptly after the exercise of an Option by a Grantee and the payment in full of the Option Price with respect thereto, such Grantee shall be entitled to receive such evidence of such Grantee's ownership of the shares of Stock subject to such Option as shall be consistent with
Section 3.7
.
During the lifetime of a Grantee of an Option, only such Grantee (or, in the event of such Grantee's legal incapacity or incompetency, such Grantee's guardian or legal representative) may exercise such Option. No Option shall be assignable or transferable by the Grantee to whom it is granted, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
An Option shall constitute an Incentive Stock Option only (a) if the Grantee of such Option is an Employee of the Company or any corporate Subsidiary, (b) to the extent specifically provided in the related Award Agreement and (c) to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time such Option is granted) of the shares of Stock with respect to which all Incentive Stock Options held by such Grantee become exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under the Plan and all other plans of the Company and its Affiliates) does not exceed $100,000. Except to the extent provided in the regulations under Code Section 422, this limitation shall be applied by taking Options into account in the order in which they were granted.
If any Grantee shall make any disposition of shares of Stock issued pursuant to the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances provided in Code Section 421(b) (relating to certain disqualifying dispositions), such Grantee shall notify the Company of such disposition within ten (10) days thereof.
 
A SAR shall confer on the Grantee to whom it is granted a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock on the date of exercise over (y) the per share exercise price of such SAR (the 
SAR Price
) as determined by the Committee. The Award Agreement for a SAR shall specify the SAR Price, which shall be no less than the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock on the Grant Date of such SAR. SARs may be granted in tandem with all or part of an Option granted under the Plan or at any subsequent time during the term of such Option, in combination with all or any part of any other Award or without regard to any Option or other Award;
provided
that a SAR that is granted subsequent to the Grant Date of a related Option must have a SAR Price that is no less than the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock on the Grant Date of such SAR.
The Committee shall determine, on the Grant Date or thereafter, the time or times at which and the circumstances under which a SAR may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future Service requirements), the time or times at which SARs shall cease to be or become exercisable following termination of Service or upon other conditions, the method of exercise, method of settlement, form of consideration payable in settlement, method by or forms in which shares of Stock shall be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Grantees, whether or not a SAR shall be granted in tandem or in combination with any other Award, and any and all other terms and conditions of any SAR. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards of SARs that vest solely by the passage of time shall not vest in full in less than three (3) years from the Grant Date (but may vest pro-rata during such period on a daily, monthly, annual or other basis);
provided,
that up to five percent (5%) of the maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be granted pursuant to the Plan without being subject to the foregoing restrictions and the restrictions set forth in
Sections 8.2
and
10.2
. The foregoing five percent (5%) share issuance limit shall be subject to adjustment consistent with the adjustment provisions of
Section 17
and the share usage rules of
Section 4.3
. If the Committee accelerates vesting of a SAR, except (a) in the case of a Grantee's death or disability, (b) acceleration required by binding commitments or agreements entered into by the Company prior to March 16, 2012, the effective date of the amendment and restatement of the Plan or (c) as specified in
Section 17.3
, the shares of Stock subject to such SAR shall be deducted from the five percent (5%) share issuance limit set forth in
Sections 8.2
,
9.2
, and
10.2
.
Each SAR granted under the Plan shall terminate, and all rights thereunder shall cease, upon the expiration of ten (10) years from the Grant Date of such SAR or under such circumstances and on such date prior thereto as is set forth in the Plan or as may be fixed by the Committee and stated in the Award Agreement relating to such SAR.
During the lifetime of a Grantee of a SAR, only the Grantee (or, in the event of such Grantee's legal incapacity or incompetency, such Grantee's guardian or legal representative) may exercise such SAR. No SAR shall be assignable or transferable by the Grantee to whom it is granted, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Awards of Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Units may be made for consideration or for no consideration, other than the par value of the shares of Stock, which shall be deemed paid by past Service or, if so provided in the related Award Agreement or a separate agreement, the promise by the Grantee to perform future Service to the Company or an Affiliate.
At the time a grant of Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units is made, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, (a) establish a period of time (a 
Restricted Period
) applicable to such Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units and (b) prescribe restrictions in addition to or other than the expiration of the Restricted Period, including the satisfaction of corporate or individual performance goals, which may be applicable to all or any portion of such Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units as provided in
Section 14
.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards of Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Units that vest solely by the passage of time shall not vest in full in less than three (3) years from the Grant Date (but may vest pro-rata during such period on a daily, monthly, annual or other basis), and Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Units that vest upon achievement of performance goals shall not vest in full in less than one (1) year from the Grant Date;
provided,
that (i) up to five percent (5%) of the maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan may be granted pursuant to the Plan without being subject to the foregoing restrictions and the restrictions set forth in
Sections 8.2
and
9.2
, and (ii) any dividends or Dividend Equivalent Rights, or other distributions, issued in connection with any Award granted at any time under the Plan shall not be subject to or counted for either such restrictions or such five percent (5%) share issuance limit. The foregoing five percent (5%) share issuance limit shall be subject to adjustment consistent with the adjustment provisions of
Section 17.2
and the share usage rules of
Section 4.3
. Awards of Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Units may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered or disposed of during the Restricted Period or prior to the satisfaction of any other restrictions prescribed by the Committee with respect to such Awards.
Pursuant to
Section 3.7
, to the extent that ownership of Restricted Stock is evidenced by a book-entry registration or direct registration (including transaction advices), such registration shall be notated to evidence the restrictions imposed on such Award of Restricted Stock under the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement. Subject to
Section 3.7
and the immediately following sentence, the Company may issue, in the name of each Grantee to whom Restricted Stock has been granted, share certificates representing the total number of shares of Restricted Stock granted to the Grantee, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Grant Date of such Restricted Stock. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that either (a) the Secretary of the Company shall hold such certificates for such Grantee's benefit until such time as such shares of Restricted Stock are forfeited to the Company or the restrictions applicable thereto lapse and such Grantee shall deliver a stock power to the Company with respect to each certificate, or (b) such certificates shall be delivered to such Grantee,
provided
that such certificates shall bear legends that comply with applicable securities laws and regulations and make appropriate reference to the restrictions imposed on such Award of Restricted Stock under the Plan and such Award Agreement.
Unless the Committee otherwise provides in an Award Agreement, holders of Restricted Stock shall have the right to vote such shares of Restricted Stock and the right to receive any dividends declared or paid with respect to such shares of Restricted Stock. The Committee may provide that any dividends paid on Restricted Stock must be reinvested in shares of Stock, which may or may not be subject to the same vesting conditions and restrictions as the vesting conditions and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock. Dividends paid on Restricted Stock which vests or is earned based upon the achievement of performance goals shall not vest unless such performance goals for such Restricted Stock are achieved, and if such performance goals are not achieved, the Grantee of such Restricted Stock shall promptly forfeit and repay to the Company such dividend payments. All stock distributions, if any, received by a Grantee with respect to Restricted Stock as a result of any stock split, stock dividend, combination of stock, or other similar transaction shall be subject to the vesting conditions and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
Holders of Deferred Stock Units shall have no rights as shareholders of the Company (for example, the right to receive cash or dividend payments or distributions attributable to the shares of Stock subject to such Deferred Stock Units, to direct the voting of the shares of Stock subject to such Deferred Stock Units, or to receive notice of any meeting of the Company's shareholders). The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement evidencing a grant of Deferred Stock Units that the holder of such Deferred Stock Units shall be entitled to receive, upon the Company's payment of a cash dividend on its outstanding shares of Stock, a cash payment for each such Deferred Stock Unit which is equal to the per-share dividend paid on such shares of Stock. Such Award Agreement also may provide that such cash payment shall be deemed reinvested in additional Deferred Stock Units at a price per unit equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date that such cash dividend is paid. Such cash payments paid in connection with Deferred Stock Units which vest or are earned based upon the achievement of performance goals shall not vest unless such performance goals for such Deferred Stock Units are achieved, and if such performance goals are not achieved, the Grantee of such Deferred Stock Units shall promptly forfeit and repay to the Company such cash payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a grantor trust is established in connection with the Awards of Deferred Stock Units and shares of Stock are held in the grantor trust for purposes of satisfying the Company's obligation to deliver shares of Stock in connection with such Deferred Stock Units, the Award Agreement for such Deferred Stock Units may provide that such cash payment shall be deemed reinvested in additional Deferred Stock Units at a price per unit equal to the actual price paid for each share of Stock by the trustee of the grantor trust upon such trustee's reinvestment of the cash dividend received.
A holder of Deferred Stock Units shall have no rights other than those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company. Deferred Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Award Agreement.
Unless the Committee otherwise provides in an Award Agreement, in another agreement with the Grantee or otherwise in writing after such Award Agreement is entered into, but prior to termination of Grantee's Service, upon the termination of such Grantee's Service, any Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units held by such Grantee that have not vested, or with respect to which all applicable restrictions and conditions have not lapsed, shall immediately be deemed forfeited. Upon forfeiture of such Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units, the Grantee thereof shall have no further rights with respect thereto, including any right to vote such Restricted Stock or any right to receive dividends with respect to such Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units. If the Committee accelerates vesting of Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units, except (a) in the case of a Grantee's death or disability, (b) acceleration required by binding commitments or agreements entered into by the Company prior to the Effective Date or (c) as specified in
Section 17.3
, the shares of Stock subject to such Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units shall be deducted from the five percent (5%) share issuance limit set forth in
Section 10.2
.
Upon the expiration or termination of any Restricted Period and the satisfaction of any other conditions prescribed by the Committee, the restrictions applicable to Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units settled in shares of Stock shall lapse, and, unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, a book-entry or direct registration (including transaction advices) or a share certificate evidencing ownership of such shares of Stock shall, consistent with
Section 3.7
, be issued, free of all such restrictions, to the Grantee thereof or such Grantee's beneficiary or estate, as the case may be. Neither the Grantee, nor the Grantee's beneficiary or estate, shall have any further rights with regard to a Deferred Stock Unit once the shares of Stock represented by such Deferred Stock Unit have been delivered in accordance with this
Section 10.7
.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant an Award to any Grantee pursuant to which such Grantee may receive shares of Stock free of any restrictions (Unrestricted Stock) under the Plan, subject to the five percent (5%) share issuance limit set forth in
Sections 8.2
,
9.2
and
 10.2
. Unrestricted Stock Awards may be granted or sold to any Grantee as provided in the immediately preceding sentence in respect of past or, if so provided in the related Award Agreement or a separate agreement, the promise by the Grantee to perform future Service to the Company or an Affiliate or other valid consideration, or in lieu of, or in addition to, any cash compensation due to such Grantee.
The Committee may, in its sole discretion, grant Awards in the form of Other Equity-Based Awards, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Awards granted pursuant to this
Section 11.2
may be granted with vesting, value and/or payment contingent upon the achievement of one or more performance goals. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of Other Equity-Based Awards at the Grant Date or thereafter.
Unless the Committee otherwise provides in an Award Agreement, in another agreement with the Grantee, or otherwise in writing after such Award Agreement is issued, upon the termination of a Grantee's Service, any Other Equity-Based Awards held by such Grantee that have not vested, or with respect to which all applicable restrictions and conditions have not lapsed, shall immediately be deemed forfeited. Upon forfeiture of any Other Equity-Based Award, the Grantee thereof shall have no further rights with respect to such Other Equity-Based Award.
Payment of the Option Price for the shares of Stock purchased pursuant to the exercise of an Option shall be made in cash or in cash equivalents acceptable to the Company.
To the extent that the applicable Award Agreement so provides, payment of the Option Price for shares of Stock purchased pursuant to the exercise of an Option may be made all or in part through the tender or attestation to the Company of shares of Stock, which shall be valued, for purposes of determining the extent to which such Option Price has been paid thereby, at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise.
To the extent permitted by Applicable Laws and to the extent the Award Agreement so provides, payment of the Option Price for shares of Stock purchased pursuant to the exercise of an Option may be made all or in part by delivery (on a form acceptable to the Committee) of an irrevocable direction to a licensed securities broker acceptable to the Company to sell shares of Stock and to deliver all or part of the proceeds of such sale to the Company in payment of such Option Price and any withholding taxes described in
Section 18.3
, or, with the consent of the Company, by issuing the number of shares of Stock equal in value to the difference between such Option Price and the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the portion of such Option being exercised.
A Dividend Equivalent Right is an Award entitling the recipient thereof to receive credits based on cash distributions that would have been paid on the shares of Stock specified in such Dividend Equivalent Right (or other Award to which such Dividend Equivalent Right relates) if such shares of Stock had been issued to and held by the recipient of such Dividend Equivalent Right as of the record date. A Dividend Equivalent Right may be granted hereunder to any Grantee;
provided
that no Dividend Equivalent Right may be granted in connection with, or related to, an Award of Options or SARs. The terms and conditions of Dividend Equivalent Rights shall be specified in the Award Agreement therefor. Dividend equivalents credited to the holder of a Dividend Equivalent Right may be paid currently (with or without being subject to forfeiture or a repayment obligation) or may be deemed to be reinvested in additional shares of Stock, which may thereafter accrue additional Dividend Equivalent Rights (with or without being subject to forfeiture or a repayment obligation). Any such reinvestment shall be at the Fair Market Value thereof on the date of such reinvestment. Dividend Equivalent Rights may be settled in cash or shares of Stock or a combination thereof, in a single installment or in multiple installments, all as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. A Dividend Equivalent Right granted as a component of another Award may provide that such Dividend Equivalent Right shall be settled upon exercise, settlement, or payment of, or lapse of restrictions on, such other Award, and that such Dividend Equivalent Right shall expire or be forfeited or annulled under the same conditions as such other Award. A Dividend Equivalent Right granted as a component of another Award also may contain terms and conditions which are different from the terms and conditions of such other Award,
provided
that Dividend Equivalent Rights credited pursuant to a Dividend Equivalent Right granted as a component of another Award which vests or is earned based upon the achievement of performance goals shall not vest unless such performance goals for such underlying Award are achieved, and if such performance goals are not achieved, the Grantee of such Dividend Equivalent Rights shall promptly forfeit and repay to the Company payments made in connection with such Dividend Equivalent Rights.
Unless the Committee otherwise provides in an Award Agreement, in another agreement with the Grantee, or otherwise in writing after such Award Agreement is issued, a Grantee's rights in all Dividend Equivalent Rights shall automatically terminate upon the Grantee's termination of Service for any reason.
Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance-Based Awards to a Plan participant in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.
Each grant of a Performance-Based Award shall have an initial value or target number of shares of Stock that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are achieved, shall determine the value and/or number of shares subject to a Performance-Based Award that will be paid out to the Grantee thereof.
Subject to the terms of the Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the Grantee of Performance-Based Awards shall be entitled to receive a payout on the value or number of the Performance-Based Awards earned by such Grantee over such Performance Period.
Payment of earned Performance-Based Awards shall be as determined by the Committee and as evidenced in the applicable
Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance-Based Awards in shares of Stock and shall pay the Awards that have been earned at the close of the applicable Performance Period, or as soon as reasonably practicable after the Committee has determined that the performance goal or goals have been achieved;
provided
that, unless specifically provided in the Award Agreement for such Awards, such payment shall occur no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of the calendar year in which such Performance Period ends. Any shares of Stock paid out under such Awards may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement for the Awards.
The right of a Grantee to exercise or receive a grant or settlement of any Performance-Based Award, and the timing thereof, may be subject to such performance conditions as may be specified by the Committee. The Committee may use such business criteria and other measures of performance as it may deem appropriate in establishing any performance conditions. If and to the extent required under Code Section 162(m), any power or authority relating to an Award intended to qualify under Code Section 162(m) shall be exercised by the Committee and not by the Board.
If and to the extent that the Committee determines that a Performance-Based Award to be granted to a Grantee should constitute qualified performance-based compensation for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Award shall be contingent upon achievement of pre-established performance goals and other terms set forth in this
Section 14.6
.
The performance goals for Performance-Based Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria and a targeted level or levels of performance with respect to each such criteria, as specified by the Committee consistent with this
Section 14.6
. Performance goals shall be objective and shall otherwise meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m), including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee result in the achievement of performance goals being substantially uncertain. The Committee may determine that such Awards shall be granted, exercised and/or settled upon achievement of any single performance goal or that two (2) or more of the performance goals must be achieved as a condition to grant, exercise and/or settlement of such Awards. Performance goals may differ for Awards granted to any one Grantee or to different Grantees.
Performance goals for any Performance-Based Award shall be established not later than the earlier of (a) 90 days after the beginning of any Performance Period applicable to such Award, and (b) the date on which twenty-five percent (25%) of any Performance Period applicable to such Award has expired, or at such other date as may be required or permitted for compensation payable to a Covered Employee to constitute Performance-Based Compensation.
Settlement of Performance-Based Awards shall be in shares of Stock, other Awards or other property, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made in connection with such Awards. The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Performance-Based Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of Service by the Grantee prior to the end of a Performance Period or settlement of such Awards.
The performance goals upon which the payment or vesting of a Performance-Based Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may be conditioned shall be limited to the following Performance Measures, with or without adjustment:
 
 
Performance under any of the foregoing Performance Measures (a) may be used to measure the performance of (i) the Company and its Subsidiaries and other Affiliates as a whole, (ii) the Company, any Subsidiary, and/or any other Affiliate or any combination thereof, or (iii) any one or more business units of the Company, any Subsidiary, and/or any other Affiliate, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate and (b) may be compared to the performance of one or more other companies or one or more published or special indices designated or approved by the Committee for such comparison, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. In addition, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may select performance under Performance Measure clause (q) above (common share price) for comparison to performance under one or more stock market indices designated or approved by the Committee. The Committee also shall have the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Performance-Based Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this
Section 14
.
The Committee may provide in any Performance-Based Award that any evaluation of performance may include or exclude any of the following events that occur during a Performance Period: (a) a Change in Control; (b) a declaration and distribution of stock dividends or stock splits; (c) mergers, consolidations or reorganizations; (d) acquisitions or dispositions of material business
units; (e) extraordinary, non-core, non-operating or non-recurring items; and (f) infrequently occurring or extraordinary gains or losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, such inclusions or exclusions shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
The Committee shall have the sole discretion to adjust Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, either on a formula or discretionary basis, or on any combination thereof, as the Committee determines consistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
In the event that Applicable Laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval,
provided
that the exercise of such discretion shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m). In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and base vesting on Performance Measures other than those set forth in
Section 14.6.4
.
It is the intent of the Company that Awards under
Section 14.6
granted to persons who are designated by the Committee as likely to be Covered Employees within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall, if so designated by the Committee, constitute qualified performance-based compensation within the meaning of Code Section 162(m). Accordingly, the terms of
Section 14.6
, including the definitions of Covered Employee and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m). If any provision of the Plan or any agreement relating to any such Award does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m), such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements.
 
If any Grantee is a disqualified individual, as defined in Code Section 280G(c), then, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or of any other agreement, contract, or understanding heretofore or hereafter entered into by such Grantee with the Company or an Affiliate, except an agreement, contract, or understanding that expressly addresses Code Section 280G or Code Section 4999 (an 
Other Agreement
), and notwithstanding any formal or informal plan or other arrangement for the direct or indirect provision of compensation to the Grantee (including groups or classes of Grantees or beneficiaries of which the Grantee is a member), whether or not such compensation is deferred, is in cash, or is in the form of a benefit to or for the Grantee (a 
Benefit Arrangement
), any right of the Grantee to any exercise, vesting, payment or benefit under the Plan shall be reduced or eliminated:
(a) to the extent that such right to exercise, vesting, payment, or benefit, taking into account all other rights, payments, or benefits to or for the Grantee under the Plan, all Other Agreements, and all Benefit Arrangements, would cause any exercise, vesting, payment, or benefit to the Grantee under the Plan to be considered a parachute payment within the meaning of Code Section 280G(b)(2) as then in effect (a 
Parachute Payment
); and
(b) if, as a result of receiving such Parachute Payment, the aggregate after-tax amounts received by the Grantee from the Company under the Plan, all Other Agreements, and all Benefit Arrangements would be less than the maximum after-tax amount that could be received by the Grantee without causing any such payment or benefit to be considered a Parachute Payment.
The Company shall accomplish such reduction by first reducing or eliminating any cash payments (with the payments to be made furthest in the future being reduced first), then by reducing or eliminating any accelerated vesting of Performance-Based Awards, then by reducing or eliminating any accelerated vesting of Options or SARs, then by reducing or eliminating any accelerated vesting of Restricted Stock or Deferred Stock Units, then by reducing or eliminating any other remaining Parachute Payments.
The Company shall not be required to offer, sell or issue any shares of Stock under any Award, whether pursuant to the exercise of an Option or SAR or otherwise, if the offer, sale or issuance of such shares of Stock would constitute a violation by the Grantee, the Company or an Affiliate, or any other person, of any provision of Applicable Laws, including any federal or state securities laws or regulations. If at any time the Company shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of any shares of Stock subject to an Award upon any securities exchange or under any governmental regulatory body
is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the offering, issuance, sale or purchase of shares of Stock in connection with any Award, no shares of Stock may be offered, issued or sold to the Grantee or any other person under such Award, whether pursuant to the exercise of an Option or SAR or otherwise, unless such listing, registration or qualification shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company, and any delay caused thereby shall in no way affect the date of termination of such Award. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, upon the exercise of any Option or any SAR that may be settled in shares of Stock or the delivery of any shares of Stock underlying an Award, unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is in effect with respect to the shares of Stock subject to such Award, the Company shall not be required to offer, sell or issue such shares of Stock unless the Committee shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that the Grantee or any other person exercising such Option or SAR or accepting delivery of such shares may acquire such shares of Stock pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Any determination in this connection by the Committee shall be final, binding, and conclusive. The Company may register, but shall in no event be obligated to register, any shares of Stock or other securities issuable pursuant to the Plan pursuant to the Securities Act. The Company shall not be obligated to take any affirmative action in order to cause the exercise of an Option or a SAR or the issuance of shares of Stock or other securities issuable pursuant to the Plan or any Award to comply with any Applicable Laws. As to any jurisdiction that expressly imposes the requirement that an Option or SAR that may be settled in shares of Stock shall not be exercisable until the shares of Stock subject to such Option or SAR are registered under the securities laws thereof or are exempt from such registration, the exercise of such Option or SAR under circumstances in which the laws of such jurisdiction apply shall be deemed conditioned upon the effectiveness of such registration or the availability of such an exemption.
During any time when the Company has a class of equity security registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, it is the intention of the Company that Awards pursuant to the Plan and the exercise of Options and SARs granted hereunder that would otherwise be subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall qualify for the exemption provided by Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. To the extent that any provision of the Plan or action by the Committee does not comply with the requirements of such Rule 16b-3, such provision or action shall be deemed inoperative with respect to such Awards to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws and deemed advisable by the Committee, and shall not affect the validity of the Plan. In the event that such Rule 16b-3 is revised or replaced, the Board may exercise its discretion to modify the Plan in any respect necessary or advisable in its judgment to satisfy the requirements of, or to permit the Company to avail itself of the benefits of, the revised exemption or its replacement.
If the number of outstanding shares of Stock is increased or decreased or the shares of Stock are changed into or exchanged for a different number of shares or kind of capital stock or other securities of the Company on account of any recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off, combination of stock, exchange of stock, stock dividend or other distribution payable in capital stock, or other increase or decrease in shares of Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company occurring after the Effective Date, the number and kinds of shares of stock for which grants of Options and other Awards may be made under the Plan, including the share limits set forth in
Section 6.2
, shall be adjusted proportionately and accordingly by the Committee. In addition, the number and kind of shares of stock for which Awards are outstanding shall be adjusted proportionately and accordingly by the Committee so that the proportionate interest of the Grantee therein immediately following such event shall, to the extent practicable, be the same as immediately before such event. Any such adjustment in outstanding Options or SARs shall not change the aggregate Option Price or SAR Price payable with respect to shares that are subject to the unexercised portion of such outstanding Options or SARs, as applicable, but shall include a corresponding proportionate adjustment in the per share Option Price or SAR Price, as the case may be. The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as an increase in shares effected without receipt of consideration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of any distribution to the Company's shareholders of securities of any other entity or other assets (including an extraordinary dividend, but excluding a non-extraordinary dividend, declared and paid by the Company) without receipt of consideration by the Company, the Board or the Committee constituted pursuant to
Section 3.1.2
shall, in such manner as the Board or the Committee deems appropriate, adjust (a) the number and kind of shares of stock subject to outstanding Awards and/or (b) the aggregate and per share Option Price of outstanding Options and the aggregate and per share SAR Price of outstanding Stock Appreciation Rights as required to reflect such distribution.
Subject to
Section 17.3
, if the Company shall be the surviving entity in any reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company with one or more other entities which does not constitute a Change in Control, any Option or SAR theretofore granted pursuant to the Plan shall pertain to and apply to the securities to which a holder of the number of shares of Stock subject to such Option or SAR would have been entitled immediately following such reorganization, merger or consolidation, with a corresponding
proportionate adjustment of the per share Option Price or SAR Price so that the aggregate Option Price or SAR Price thereafter shall be the same as the aggregate Option Price or SAR Price of the shares of Stock remaining subject to the Option or SAR as in effect immediately prior to such reorganization, merger, or consolidation. Subject to any contrary language in an Award Agreement or in another agreement with the Grantee, or otherwise set forth in writing, any restrictions applicable to such Award shall apply as well to any replacement shares received by the Grantee as a result of such reorganization, merger or consolidation. In the event of any reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company referred to in this
Section 17.2
, Performance-Based Awards shall be adjusted (including any adjustment to the Performance Measures applicable to such Awards deemed appropriate by the Committee) so as to apply to the securities that a holder of the number of shares of Stock subject to the Performance-Based Awards would have been entitled to receive immediately following such reorganization, merger or consolidation.
17.3.
    
Change in Control in which Awards are not Assumed.
Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or in another agreement with the Grantee, or as otherwise set forth in writing, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control in which outstanding Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Dividend Equivalent Rights or Other Equity-Based Awards are not being assumed or continued, the following provisions shall apply to such Award, to the extent not assumed or continued:
(a) in each case with the exception of Performance-Based Awards,
(i) all outstanding Restricted Stock shall be deemed to have vested, all Deferred Stock Units shall be deemed to have vested and the shares of Stock subject thereto shall be delivered, and all Dividend Equivalent Rights shall be deemed to have vested and the shares of Stock subject thereto shall be delivered, immediately prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control, and fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled consummation of such Change in Control, all Options and SARs outstanding hereunder shall become immediately exercisable and shall remain exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days; or
(ii) the Committee may elect, in its sole discretion, to cancel any outstanding Awards of Options, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Dividend Equivalent Rights and/or SARs and pay or deliver, or cause to be paid or delivered, to the holder thereof an amount in cash or securities having a value (as determined by the Committee acting in good faith), in the case of Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units and Dividend Equivalent Rights (for shares of Stock subject thereto) equal to the formula or fixed price per share paid to holders of shares of Stock pursuant to such Change in Control and, in the case of Options or SARs, equal to the product of the number of shares of Stock subject to such Options or SARs (the 
Award Stock
) multiplied by the amount, if any, by which (x) the formula or fixed price per share paid to holders of shares of Stock pursuant to such transaction exceeds (y) the Option Price or SAR Price applicable to such Award Stock.
(b) For Performance-Based Awards denominated in Stock, if less than half of the Performance Period has lapsed, such Performance-Based Awards shall be converted into Restricted Stock or Performance Shares assuming target performance has been achieved (or into Unrestricted Stock if no further restrictions apply). If at least half the Performance Period has lapsed, such Performance-Based Awards shall be converted into Restricted Stock or Performance Shares based on actual performance to date (or into Unrestricted Stock if no further restrictions apply). If actual performance is not determinable, such Performance-Based Awards shall be converted into Restricted Stock or Performance Shares assuming target performance has been achieved, based on the discretion of the Committee (or into Unrestricted Stock if no further restrictions apply).
(c) Other Equity-Based Awards shall be governed by the terms of the applicable Award Agreement.
With respect to the Company's establishment of an exercise window, (A) any exercise of an Option or SAR during the fifteen (15)-day period referred to above shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the applicable Change in Control and shall be effective only immediately before the consummation thereof, and (B) upon consummation of any Change in Control, the Plan and all outstanding but unexercised Options and SARs shall terminate. The Committee shall send notice of an event that shall result in such a termination to all natural persons and entities who hold Options and SARs not later than the time at which the Company gives notice thereof to its shareholders.
Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement or in another agreement with the Grantee, or as otherwise set forth in writing, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control in which outstanding Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Dividend Equivalent Rights or Other Equity-Based Awards are being assumed or continued, the following provisions shall apply to such Award, to the extent assumed or continued:
The Plan and the Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Other Equity-Based Awards granted under the Plan shall continue in the manner and under the terms so provided in the event of any Change in Control to the extent that provision is made in writing in connection with such Change in Control for the assumption or continuation of such Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Other Equity-Based Awards, or for the substitution for such Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Other Equity-
Based Awards of new common stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, common stock units, dividend equivalent rights and other equity-based awards relating to the stock of a successor entity, or a parent or subsidiary thereof, with appropriate adjustments as to the number of shares (disregarding any consideration that is not common stock) and option and stock appreciation rights exercise prices.
17.5.
    
Adjustments.
Adjustments under this
Section 17
related to shares of Stock or other securities of the Company shall be made by the Committee, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. No fractional shares or other securities shall be issued pursuant to any such adjustment, and any fractions resulting from any such adjustment shall be eliminated in each case by rounding downward to the nearest whole share. The Committee may provide in the applicable Award Agreement at the time of grant, in another agreement with the Grantee, or otherwise in writing at any time thereafter with the consent of the Grantee, for different provisions to apply to an Award in place of those provided in
Sections 17.1, 17.2, 17.3
and
17.4
. This
Section 17
shall not limit the Committee's ability to provide for alternative treatment of Awards outstanding under the Plan in the event of a change in control event that is not a Change in Control.
The making of Awards pursuant to the Plan shall not affect or limit in any way the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, or liquidate, or to sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets (including all or any part of the business or assets of any Subsidiary or other Affiliate) or engage in any other transaction or activity.
No provision in the Plan or in any Award or Award Agreement shall be construed to confer upon any individual the right to remain in the employ or Service of the Company or an Affiliate, or to interfere in any way with any contractual or other right or authority of the Company or an Affiliate either to increase or decrease the compensation or other payments to any natural person or entity at any time, or to terminate any employment or other relationship between any natural person or entity and the Company or an Affiliate. In addition, notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, unless otherwise stated in the applicable Award Agreement, in another agreement with the Grantee, or otherwise in writing, no Award granted under the Plan shall be affected by any change of duties or position of the Grantee thereof, so long as such Grantee continues to provide Service. The obligation of the Company to pay any benefits pursuant to the Plan shall be interpreted as a contractual obligation to pay only those amounts provided herein, in the manner and under the conditions prescribed herein. The Plan and Awards shall in no way be interpreted to require the Company to transfer any amounts to a third party trustee or otherwise hold any amounts in trust or escrow for payment to any Grantee or beneficiary under the terms of the Plan.
Neither the adoption of the Plan nor the submission of the Plan to the shareholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations upon the right and authority of the Board to adopt such other incentive compensation arrangements (which arrangements may be applicable either generally to a class or classes of individuals or specifically to a particular individual or particular individuals) as the Board in its discretion determines desirable.
The Company or an Affiliate, as the case may be, shall have the right to deduct from payments of any kind otherwise due to a Grantee any federal, state, or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of or other lapse of restrictions applicable to an Award or upon the issuance of any shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Option or pursuant to any other Award. At the time of such vesting, lapse, or exercise, the Grantee shall pay in cash to the Company or an Affiliate, as the case may be, any amount that the Company or such Affiliate may reasonably determine to be necessary to satisfy such withholding obligation;
provided
that if there is a same-day sale of shares of Stock subject to an Award, the Grantee shall pay such withholding obligation on the day on which such same-day sale is completed. Subject to the prior approval of the Company or an Affiliate, which may be withheld by the Company or such Affiliate, as the case may be, in its sole discretion, the Grantee may elect to satisfy such withholding obligation, in whole or in part, (a) by causing the Company or such Affiliate to withhold shares of Stock otherwise issuable to the Grantee or (b) by delivering to the Company or such Affiliate shares of Stock already owned by the Grantee. The shares of Stock so withheld or delivered shall have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to such withholding obligation. The Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock used to satisfy such withholding obligation shall be determined by the Company or such Affiliate as of the date on which the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. A Grantee who has made an election pursuant to this
Section 18.3
may satisfy such Grantee's withholding obligation only with shares of Stock that are not
subject to any repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting, or other similar requirements. The maximum number of shares of Stock that may be withheld from any Award to satisfy any federal, state or local tax withholding requirements upon the exercise, vesting, or lapse of restrictions applicable to any Award or payment of shares of Stock pursuant to such Award, as applicable, may not exceed such number of shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory amount required by the Company or the applicable Affiliate to be withheld and paid to any such federal, state or local taxing authority with respect to such exercise, vesting, lapse of restrictions or payment of shares of Stock. Notwithstanding
Section 2.22
or this
Section 18.3
, for purposes of determining taxable income and the amount of the related tax withholding obligation pursuant to this
Section 18.3
, for any shares of Stock subject to an Award that are sold by or on behalf of a Grantee on the same date on which such shares may first be sold pursuant to the terms of the related Award Agreement, the Fair Market Value of such shares shall be the sale price of such shares on such date (or if sales of such shares are effectuated at more than one sale price, the weighted average sale price of such shares on such date), so long as such Grantee has provided the Company, or its designee or agent, with advance written notice of such sale.
 
The use of captions in the Plan or any Award Agreement is for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning of any provision of the Plan or such Award Agreement.
Each Award granted under the Plan may contain such other terms and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as may be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.
With respect to words used in the Plan, the singular form shall include the plural form and the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender, as the context requires.
If any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement shall be determined to be illegal or unenforceable by any court of law in any jurisdiction, the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall be severable and enforceable in accordance with their terms, and all provisions shall remain enforceable in any other jurisdiction.
The validity and construction of the Plan and the instruments evidencing the Awards hereunder shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Florida, other than any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan and the instruments evidencing the Awards granted hereunder to the substantive laws of any other jurisdiction.
The Company intends to comply with Code Section 409A, or an exemption to Code Section 409A, with regard to Awards hereunder that constitute nonqualified deferred compensation within the meaning of Code Section 409A. To the extent that the Company determines that a Grantee would be subject to the additional twenty percent (20%) tax imposed on certain nonqualified deferred compensation plans pursuant to Code Section 409A as a result of any provision of any Award granted under the Plan, such provision shall be deemed amended to the minimum extent necessary to avoid application of such additional tax. The nature of any such amendment shall be determined by the Committee.
* * *
To record adoption of the Plan by the Board as of December 10, 2010, approval of the Plan by the shareholders on May 20, 2011, and the amendment and restatement of the Plan by the Board as of March 16, 2012, the Company has caused its authorized officer to execute the Plan.

Exhibit 99
NextEra Energy, Inc.
Media Line: (305) 552-3888
March 16, 2012
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
As part of planned succession process, NextEra Energy's Lew Hay to step down as CEO in 2012, retire in 2013; Jim Robo named successor
JUNO BEACH, Fla. - Lewis Lew Hay, III, 56, today announced that he intends to retire from NextEra Energy, Inc., at the end of 2013 as part of a planned leadership succession process. Mr. Hay will step down as CEO effective July 1, 2012. The Board of Directors today appointed Mr. Hay to serve as Executive Chairman from July 1, 2012, until his retirement, and appointed James L. Robo, 49, currently President and Chief Operating Officer of NextEra Energy, to succeed Mr. Hay as Chief Executive Officer of the company, effective July 1, 2012. It is anticipated that Mr. Robo will be appointed to the Board of Directors on or about the effective date of his appointment as CEO.
Effective July 1, Mr. Robo will be responsible for the overall strategy and operations of the company, while Mr. Hay, in addition to his duties as Board Chairman, will have direct responsibility for the company's legal, human resources and federal governmental affairs functions and will continue to provide input and counsel on strategy and other matters.
Michael H. Thaman, lead independent director on the NextEra Energy Board of Directors, said, The Board of Directors is truly appreciative of Lew Hay's leadership of this company for more than a decade. Lew led the transformation of NextEra Energy into one of the largest, cleanest, most successful players in the electric industry. As a fitting tribute to his vision and leadership, Fortune Magazine recently named NextEra Energy the most admired company in our industry for an unprecedented sixth consecutive time, reflecting input from the executives, board members and analysts who know the industry better than anyone else. Lew has guided the company through an incredible period of change and growth and has done so with integrity and a sharp focus on creating value for customers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
Mr. Thaman continued, The Board takes its responsibilities regarding CEO succession very seriously. Lew has done a superior job in working closely with the Board to identify and prepare Jim Robo as his successor. We are truly fortunate to have an individual of Jim's caliber, vision and experience to lead NextEra Energy into the future.
Jim is ready for the job. He has been an active partner in determining our strategic direction and delivering our operational success and has the complete endorsement and support of the Board. During his tenure to date, Jim has had an enormously positive impact on the business and we look forward to working closely with him to ensure the continued success and growth of NextEra Energy in the years ahead. 
Mr. Hay joined NextEra Energy as Chief Financial Officer in August 1999. In March 2000, he was appointed President of NextEra Energy Resources, LLC. He was elected CEO of NextEra Energy, Inc., in
June 2001 and elected Chairman of the Board in January 2002. Mr. Hay received a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from Lehigh University in 1977 and a master of science degree in industrial administration from Carnegie Mellon University in 1982. Mr. Hay serves on the board of directors of Capital One Financial Corporation and of Harris Corporation. He is a Vice Chairman of the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), the association of U.S. shareholder-owned electric companies. He is also a director and past chairman of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO), which encompasses all U.S. commercial nuclear operating organizations, and he is a director of the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI). He is a member of the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness and the Business Roundtable.
Mr. Hay was the chief architect of the company's clean energy growth strategy under which the company doubled its generating capacity to 41,000 megawatts during his tenure as CEO, including the addition of wind, solar, nuclear and natural gas generating facilities. The company is now the largest generator in the U.S. of renewable power from the wind and the sun, the third largest nuclear operator in the U.S. and operates one of the largest, cleanest rate-regulated utilities in the country, Florida Power & Light Company. During Mr. Hay's tenure as CEO to year-end 2011, NextEra Energy has delivered a total shareholder return of more than 200 percent, or more than six times the return of the S&P 500. On a total shareholder return basis, NextEra Energy outperformed more than 80 percent of the companies in the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index and more than 70 percent of the companies in the S&P 500 Index. From 2001 through 2011, the company's earnings per share grew at a compound annual rate of approximately 7 percent, compared to approximately 2 percent for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index. The company grew dividends per share at a compound annual rate of 7 percent versus about 5 percent for the S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index. 
Commenting on the transition, Mr. Hay said, I've been extremely blessed and privileged to have had the opportunity to lead NextEra Energy over the past 11 years. I have a deep passion for our company and enormous love and respect for our people. I'm extremely proud of what our team has accomplished during my tenure. Jim Robo has been an invaluable partner and was instrumental in developing and executing on NextEra Energy's clean energy growth strategy over the past decade. He is an insightful strategist, experienced operator and proven developer of talent. Jim is fully qualified and clearly ready for his new role leading our company. With that in mind, this is the perfect time for our company to start this transition. NextEra Energy is in great shape, both financially and operationally, and we have a great team and an outstanding successor in place who will undoubtedly take this company to even higher levels of performance.
Mr. Robo joined NextEra Energy as Vice President of Corporate Development and Strategy in March 2002. A few months later, he was appointed President of NextEra Energy Resources. He was named to his current role in 2006. Prior to joining NextEra Energy, Mr. Robo served in executive roles with General Electric and Strategic Planning Associates, a management consulting firm. Mr. Robo received his bachelor of arts degree from Harvard College in 1984 and his MBA in 1988 from Harvard Business School. He serves on the board of directors of J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc.
Mr. Robo has been instrumental in the expansion of the company's wind generation fleet, growing it from approximately 1,500 megawatts in mid-2002 to 8,569 at year-end 2011. He also was instrumental in the acquisition of four nuclear reactors at three sites, which contributed to the company becoming the third largest nuclear operator in the U.S. Mr. Robo has been leading the company's solar power expansion, representing more than $4 billion in investment and nearly 1,000 megawatts under operation or in construction. In addition, he has overseen the largest capital investment program in the history of Florida Power & Light. The addition of highly efficient power generation as part of this program is generating hundreds of millions of dollars a year in fuel savings for FPL customers and is an important reason the company's typical residential customer bills are the lowest in the state and 25 percent below the national average.
Mr. Robo said, I have been privileged to have worked with and learned from Lew during an incredible
decade of growth and I am honored to have the opportunity to lead the company in the years ahead. We have a terrific team of motivated people, a track record of delivering value, and a long-standing commitment to acting with integrity. Like Lew, I will be focused on continuing to grow the business while creating value for our customers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
In conjunction with today's announcement, NextEra Energy reiterated confidence in its plans for the years ahead, including reaffirmation of its previously disclosed 2012 adjusted earnings per share expectations of $4.35 to $4.65 and 2014 adjusted earnings per share expectations of $5.05 to$5.65. The adjusted earnings per share expectations exclude the cumulative effect of adopting new accounting standards, the unrealized mark-to-market effect of non-qualifying hedges and net other than temporary impairment losses on securities held in NextEra Energy Resources, LLC's nuclear decommissioning funds, none of which can be determined at this time. In addition, NextEra Energy's adjusted earnings per share expectations assume, among other things: normal weather and operating conditions; no further significant decline in the national or the Florida economy; supportive commodity markets; public policy support for wind and solar development and construction; market demand and transmission expansion to support wind and solar development; access to capital at reasonable cost and terms; no acquisitions or divestitures; no adverse litigation decisions; and no changes to federal or state tax policy or incentives. NextEra Energy's adjusted earnings per share expectations should be viewed in conjunction with NextEra Energy's cautionary statements and risk factors set forth below. Adjusted earnings do not represent a substitute for net income, as prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
NextEra Energy, Inc.
NextEra Energy, Inc. (NYSE: NEE) is a leading clean energy company with 2011 revenues of more than $15.3 billion, more than 41,000 megawatts of generating capacity, and approximately 15,000 employees in 24 states and Canada. Headquartered in Juno Beach, Fla., NextEra Energy's principal subsidiaries are Florida Power & Light Company, which serves approximately 4.6 million customer accounts in Florida and is one of the largest rate-regulated electric utilities in the country, and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC, which together with its affiliated entities is the largest generator in the U.S. of renewable energy from the wind and sun. Through its subsidiaries, NextEra Energy collectively operates the third largest U.S. nuclear power generation fleet. For more information about NextEra Energy companies, visit these websites:
www.NextEraEnergy.com
,
www.FPL.com
,
www.NextEraEnergyResources.com
###
Cautionary Statements And Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead represent the current expectations of NextEra Energy, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, NextEra Energy) regarding future operating results and other future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of NextEra Energy's control.  Forward-looking statements in this press release include, among others, statements concerning adjusted earnings per share expectations and future operating performance. In some cases, you can identify the forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as will, will likely result, expect, anticipate, believe, intend, plan, seek, aim, potential, projection, forecast, predict, goals, target, outlook, should, would or similar words or expressions.  You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of future performance.  The future results of NextEra Energy are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following:  effects of extensive regulation of NextEra Energy's business operations; inability of NextEra Energy to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or an appropriate return on capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise; impact of political, regulatory and economic factors on regulatory decisions important to NextEra Energy; risks of disallowance of cost recovery based on a finding of imprudent use of derivative instruments; effect of reduction or elimination of existing government support policies on demand for generation from renewable energy projects; impact of new or revised laws, regulations or interpretations or other regulatory initiatives on NextEra Energy; effect on NextEra Energy of potential regulatory action to broaden the scope of regulation of OTC financial derivatives and to apply such regulation to NextEra Energy; capital expenditures, increased cost of operations and exposure to liabilities attributable to environmental laws and regulations applicable to NextEra Energy; effects on NextEra Energy of federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions; exposure of NextEra
Energy to significant and increasing compliance costs and substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions as a result of extensive federal regulation of its operations; effect on NextEra Energy of changes in tax laws and in judgments and estimates used to determine tax-related asset and liability amounts; impact on NextEra Energy of adverse results of litigation; effect on NextEra Energy of failure to proceed with projects under development or inability to complete the construction of (or capital improvements to) electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget; impact on development and operating activities of NextEra Energy resulting from risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements; risks involved in the operation and maintenance of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities; effect on NextEra Energy of a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage; impact on NextEra Energy of severe weather and other weather conditions; risks associated with threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber attacks or other attempts to disrupt NextEra Energy's business or the businesses of third parties; risk of lack of availability of adequate insurance coverage for protection of NextEra Energy against significant losses; risk of increased operating costs resulting from unfavorable supply costs necessary to provide full energy and capacity requirement services; inability or failure to hedge effectively assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures; potential volatility of NextEra Energy's results of operations caused by sales of power on the spot market or on a short-term contractual basis; effect of reductions in the liquidity of energy markets on NextEra Energy's ability to manage operational risks; effectiveness of NextEra Energy's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools to protect against significant losses; impact of unavailability or disruption of power transmission or commodity transportation facilities on sale and delivery of power or natural gas; exposure of NextEra Energy to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors; risks of failure of counterparties to perform under derivative contracts or of requirement for NextEra Energy to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts; failure or breach of NextEra Energy's information technology systems; risks to NextEra Energy's retail businesses of compromise of sensitive customer data; risks to NextEra Energy of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in OTC markets; impact of negative publicity; inability to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate acceptable franchise agreements; increasing costs of health care plans; lack of a qualified workforce or the loss or retirement of key employees; occurrence of work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs; NextEra Energy's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions; environmental, health and financial risks associated with ownership of nuclear generation facilities; liability of NextEra Energy for significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums in the event of an incident at certain nuclear generation facilities; increased operating and capital expenditures at nuclear generation facilities resulting from orders or new regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; inability to operate any owned nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses; liability for increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs resulting from hazards posed to owned nuclear generation facilities; risks associated with outages of owned nuclear units; effect of disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets on NextEra Energy's ability to fund its liquidity and capital needs and meet its growth objectives; inability to maintain current credit ratings; risk of impairment of liquidity from inability of creditors to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings; poor market performance and other economic factors that could affect NextEra Energy's defined benefit pension plan's funded status; poor market performance and other risks to the asset values of nuclear decommissioning funds; changes in market value and other risks to certain of NextEra Energy's investments; effect of inability of NextEra Energy subsidiaries to upstream dividends or repay funds to NextEra Energy or of NextEra Energy's performance under guarantees of subsidiary obligations on NextEra Energy's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock; and effect of disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets of the market price of NextEra Energy's common stock. NextEra Energy discusses these and other risks and uncertainties in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and other SEC filings, and this press release should be read in conjunction with such SEC filings made through the date of this press release.  The forward-looking statements made in this press release are made only as of the date of this press release
and NextEra Energy and FPL undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


