ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Introduction Raytheon Company develops technologically advanced, integrated products, services and solutions in four core defense markets: Sensing; Effects; Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence (C3I) and Mission Support. We serve all branches of the U.S. military and numerous other U.S. Government agencies, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and many allied governments. We operate in six business segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS), Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) and Technical Services (TS). For a more detailed description of our segments, see Business Segments within Item 1 of this Form 10 K. In this section, we discuss our industry and how certain factors may affect our business, key elements of our strategy, how our financial performance is assessed and measured by management, and other business considerations, including certain risks and challenges to our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting estimates, which are those estimates that are most important to both the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult or subjective judgment. We then review our results of operations for 2008, 2007 and 2006 beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by business segment. We also review our financial condition and liquidity including our capital structure and resources, off balance sheet arrangements, commitments and contingencies, and conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Industry Considerations Domestic Considerations In 2008, U.S. Government sales accounted for approximately 87% of our sales, primarily through defense related programs with the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) (which accounted for approximately 83% of our sales). Accordingly, the DoD budget and priorities are critical considerations for our domestic business. DoD funding has grown substantially since 2001. The DoD base budget, which excludes emergency funding for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, has grown from $300 billion in fiscal year (FY) 2001 to $512 billion in FY 2009, or 7% compounded annually. The FY 2009 budget is 7% or $32 billion higher than the FY 2008 level. DoD modernization funding, which consists of procurement and research and development (R&D), is of particular importance to defense contractors. Modernization funding in the base budget has grown at an annual rate of 7% since FY 2001. The FY 2009 modernization level of $181 billion is 3% or $6 billion higher than the FY 2008 level. A major reason for this relatively consistent growth is the need to replace aging inventory of planes, ships, ground combat vehicles and other necessary warfighting equipment, often referred to by DoD officials as recapitalization. The DoD Operations and Maintenance Account (O&M), which includes funding for training, services and other logistical support functions, is the other major account of importance to the defense industry. O&M in the DoD base budget has grown at an annual rate of 6% since FY 2001. The FY 2009 level of $179 billion is 9% or $15 billion higher than the FY 2008 level. The decision to increase active duty ground forces by 92,000 will likely increase O&M funding requirements in the near future. Funding for the operations in Afghanistan and Iraq have largely occurred through emergency supplemental appropriations rather than in the base budget appropriations. These emergency supplemental appropriations have risen from $63 billion in FY 2003 to $183 billion for FY 2008, or 24% compounded annually. Congress has already appropriated $66 billion for FY 2009, and a second emergency FY 2009 supplemental appropriation is expected in the spring of 2009. The share of funding devoted to the modernization accounts, primarily procurement, within these emergency supplemental appropriations has steadily grown. Of the $183 billion of FY 2008 emergency funding, $67 billion or 37% is 31 Table of Contents for modernization, which is 31% or $16 billion higher than the FY 2007 level. This growth is fueled by a greater need for force protection of the warfighter as well as the growing need to replace or extensively refurbish equipment which is wearing down due to operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. Looking forward, based on the enacted levels of DoD funding for FY 2009, we expect continued robust levels of defense spending in the near term. However, projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near term due to numerous factors. We believe that the DoD budget and priorities will be affected by several factors, including the following: External threats to our national security, including potential security threats posed by terrorists, emerging nuclear states and other countries; Funding for on going operations in Iraq and, to a lesser extent, Afghanistan, which will require funding above and beyond the DoD base budget for their duration; Future priorities of the new Administration which could result in significant changes in the DoD budget overall and various allocations within the budget; and The overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. With respect to other U.S. Government agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) budget and priorities also are important considerations for our domestic business. DHS funding has grown rapidly since DHS was established in 2003. Appropriations for DHS have increased from $23 billion for FY 2003 to $40 billion for FY 2009, or 9% compounded annually. While there is less visibility into the future funding plans of DHS compared to the DoD, we expect continued robust funding levels for DHS in the near term. We believe that the DHS budget will be affected by several factors, including some of the same factors that affect the DoD budget, such as the threat of terrorism, which is not expected to diminish greatly in the next several years, the overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the U.S. Governments finances, and the future priorities of the new Administration. In addition, DHS enjoys strong bipartisan support for robust levels of funding. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact the U.S. Governments demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. International Considerations In 2008, our sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 20% of our sales (including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government). Internationally, the growing threat of additional terrorist activity, emerging nuclear states and conventional military threats have led to an increase in demand for defense products and services and homeland security solutions. We currently anticipate that overall international defense budgets will grow slightly faster than domestic budgets. International customers are expected to also continue to adopt similar defense transformation initiatives as the DoDs initiatives. We believe that this trend will continue because many international customers are facing the same threat environment changes as the United States and they wish to assure that their forces and systems will be interoperable with U.S. and NATO forces. However, international demand is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, as well as U.S. foreign policy. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact international demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Our Strategy and Opportunities The following are the key elements of our strategy: Focus on key strategic pursuits, technology and mission assurance to protect and grow our position in our four core defense markets, Sensing, Effects, C3I and Mission Support. Leverage our domain knowledge in these core defense markets, as well as in Mission Systems Integration, Homeland Security, and Information Assurance/Information Operations. Expand our international business by broadening our regional focus and expanding our presence in core and adjacent markets, especially Border Security and Mission Support. Be a Customer focused company based on performance, relationships, and solutions. 32 Table of Contents Our Markets We believe that our technologies, domain knowledge and key capabilities and their alignment with customer needs in our core defense markets position us favorably to continue to grow and increase our market share. Our core markets also serve as a solid base from which to expand into adjacent and emerging markets, such as in Homeland Security and Information Assurance/Information Operations. We continually explore opportunities to use our existing capabilities or develop or acquire additional ones to expand into closely adjacent markets. Sensing Sensing encompasses technologies that acquire precise situational data across air, space, ground and underwater domains and then generate the information needed for effective battlespace decisions. Our sensing technologies span the full electromagnetic spectrum, from traditional radio frequency (RF) and electro optical (EF) to hyperspectral, acoustic and ultraviolet sensors. We are focused on leveraging our sensing technologies to provide a broad range of capabilities as well as expanding into adjacent markets such as sensors to detect Weapons of Mass Destruction. Effects Effects technologies achieve specific military actions or outcomes, from striking targets or disabling hostile information systems to using directed energy in urban warfare. We are focused on moving beyond kinetic energy weapons to provide a broader range of systems that generate desired effects on an enemy, including using the missile as a node in the network, directed energy, lethal and non lethal applications and information operations. Our Effects capabilities include advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high resolution sensors, targeting and netted systems. Command, Control, Communication and Intelligence (C3I) C3I systems provide integrated real time support to decision makers on and off the battlefield, transforming raw data into actionable intelligence. We are seeking to continue to grow our market presence in C3I and also expand our knowledge management and discovery capabilities. Our C3I capabilities include situational awareness, persistent surveillance, communications, mission planning, battle management command and control, intelligence and analysis, and integrated ground solutions. Mission Support We are focused on enabling customer success through total life cycle support that predicts customer needs, senses potential problems and proactively responds with the most appropriate solutions. Our Mission Support capabilities include technical services, system engineering, logistics, training, operations and maintenance. Mission Systems Integration We believe that our expanding Mission Systems Integration (MSI) role will be a key differentiator for us. MSI is the integration of multiple systems (e.g., sensors, C3I, effects) to deliver a solution designed to accomplish a specific mission for a customer. MSI requires a thorough understanding of the customers mission, the systems being integrated and the concept of operations. Our customer focus, program execution and the ability of our businesses to effectively work together on broad and complex initiatives are important factors in our ability to continue to expand our MSI role. Homeland Security We also intend to continue to grow our presence in the domestic and international homeland security markets, focusing on transportation security, critical infrastructure protection, energy security, intelligence program support, law enforcement solutions, and emergency preparedness and response. Information Assurance/Information Operations In 2008, we established the Information Security Solutions product line within our IIS business segment. We also acquired two information security companies: SI Government Solutions and Telemus Solutions, Inc. Both provide information security solutions and services to the intelligence community and DoD. International Growth Because of the breadth of our offerings, our systems integration capability and our strong legacy in the international marketplace, we believe that we are well positioned to continue to grow our international business. As discussed under International Considerations, we believe that demand is growing for solutions in air and missile defense, homeland security including border surveillance, air traffic management, precision engagement, naval systems integration and 33 Table of Contents intelligence and surveillance and reconnaissance. In addition, as coalition forces increasingly integrate military operations worldwide, we believe that our leadership in network centric operations will continue to be a key discriminator. In 2008, our international bookings grew to $7.6 billion from $6.7 billion in 2007. Notable international awards include: A significant order for the design, development and support of Patriot systems in the United Arab Emirates, as well as awards in Korea, Kuwait and Taiwan; Contract to provide Standard Missile 3s to Japan; and Follow on orders for the e Borders program in the UK and the Hobart Class Air Warfare Destroyer program in Australia. Focus on the Customer and Execution Our customer focus continues to be a critical part of our strategy underpinned by a focus on performance, relationships and solutions. Performance means being able to meet customer commitments and is ensured through strong processes, metrics and oversight. We maintain a process architecture that spans our broad programs and pursuits. It consists of processes such as Integrated Product Development System (IPDS) which assures consistency of evaluation and execution at each step in a programs life cycle. These processes are linked to an array of front end and back end metrics. With this structure, we are able to track results and be alerted to potential issues through numerous oversight mechanisms, including operating reviews and annual operating plan reviews. We are also continuing to build strong customer relationships by listening to customers, working with them as partners and including them on Raytheon Six SigmaTM teams to jointly improve their programs and processes. We are increasingly focused on responding to our customers changing requirements with rapid and effective solutions to real problems. Other Business Considerations We currently are involved in approximately 15,000 contracts. Our largest contract in 2008 was for the Zumwalt Class Destroyer program (DDG 1000), which accounted for less than 5% of total Net sales in 2008. We believe that our diverse portfolio of programs and capabilities is well suited to a changing defense environment. However, we face numerous challenges and risks, as discussed below and under Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. We remain dependent on the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our business. Sales to the U.S. Government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget/economic considerations, changing defense requirements and political developments such as changes in Congress and the Administration. The influence of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could impact our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we operate in highly competitive markets. These markets are becoming increasingly more concentrated in response to the trend of certain customers awarding a smaller number of large multi service contracts. Additionally, the DoD and international customers are increasingly turning to commercial contractors for IT and other support work. Our future success is dependent on our ability to execute our business strategies. First, we must continue to perform on existing programs, as past performance is an important selection criteria for new competitive awards. Second, we must successfully execute our growth strategies, as discussed above. In order to execute, we must be able to identify the most appropriate opportunities to leverage our capabilities and technologies, as well as emerging customer trends in these markets. We then must successfully develop, market and support new offerings and technologies for those markets which will require the investment of significant financial resources and substantial management attention. We also focus on significant changes in our estimates of contract sales, costs and profits, to assess program performance and the potential impact of such changes on our results of operations. As discussed in greater detail in Critical Accounting Estimates, our method of accounting for our contracts requires that we estimate contract revenues and costs. Due to the size, length of time and nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, our estimates are complicated and subject to many variables. We review our contract estimates periodically to assess whether revisions are warranted and make revisions and adjustments to our estimates in the ordinary course. Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. In addition, given our number of contracts and 34 Table of Contents our accounting methods, we may recognize changes in multiple contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be significant, but that result, on a net basis, in no impact on our results of operations. Alternatively, we may recognize changes in numerous contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be immaterial, but that result, collectively, in a significant change to our results of operations. FINANCIAL SUMMARY Management is focused on the following financial indicators: Bookings a forward looking metric that measures the value of new contracts awarded to us during the year. Net Sales a growth metric that measures our revenue for the current year. Operating Income which measures our profit from continuing operations for the year, before interest and taxes. Free Cash Flow a measure of the cash generated in a given year that we can use to make strategic investments to grow our business or return to our shareholders. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) a measure of the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital. Considered in the aggregate, we believe these five metrics are strong indicators of our overall performance and our ability to create shareholder value. We feel these measures are balanced among long term and short term performance, growth and efficiency. We use these and other performance metrics for executive compensation purposes. In addition, we maintain a strong focus on program execution and the prudent management of capital and investments in order to maximize operating income and cash and to continue to improve ROIC. We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases. Bookings were $26.8 billion in 2008, $25.5 billion in 2007 and $22.4 billion in 2006, resulting in backlog of $38.9 billion, $36.6 billion and $33.8 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Backlog represents future sales expected to be recognized over the contract period, which is generally the next several years. Depending upon the customer and its funding sources, our orders might be structured as annual follow on contracts, or as one large multi year order or long term award. As a result, period to period comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of future workloads. Net sales were $23.2 billion in 2008, $21.3 billion in 2007 and $19.7 billion in 2006. Operating income was $2.6 billion in 2008, $2.3 billion in 2007 and $1.9 billion in 2006. Operating margin, operating income as a percentage of net sales, was 11.2%, 10.9% and 9.9% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in operating income was a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, described below in Critical Accounting Estimates, of $123 million, $259 million and $362 million of expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $2.0 billion in 2008, $1.2 billion in 2007 and $2.5 billion in 2006. A discussion of our results follows below in Consolidated Results of Operations; Segment Results; Financial Condition and Liquidity; and Capital Resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are based on the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe the estimates set forth below may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application than our other accounting estimates and represent the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe our judgments related to these accounting estimates are appropriate. 35 Table of Contents However, if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from the amounts recorded. Revenue Recognition We determine the appropriate method by which we recognize revenue by analyzing the type, terms and conditions of each contract or arrangement entered into with our customers. The significant estimates we consider in recognizing revenue for the types of revenue generating activities in which we are involved are described below. We classify contract revenues as product or service according to the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts unless the contract can clearly be split between product and service. We define service revenue as revenue from activities which are not associated with the design, development or production of tangible assets, and the delivery of software code or a specific capability. Service revenue represented less than 10% of our total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Percentage of Completion Accounting We account for our contracts associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, or those otherwise within the scope of Chapter 11 of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Government Contracts (ARB No. 43) or Statement of Position 81 1, Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts (SOP 81 1), such as certain cost plus service contracts, using the percentage of completion accounting method. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the long term contract. The selection of the method by which to measure such progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Our analysis of these contracts also contemplates whether contracts should be combined or segmented. The combination of two or more contracts requires significant judgment in determining whether the intent of entering into the contracts was effectively to enter into a single project, which should be combined to reflect an overall profit rate. Additionally, judgment is involved in determining whether a single contract or group of contracts may be segmented based on how the contract was negotiated and the performance criteria. The decision to combine a group of contracts or segment a contract could change the amount of revenue and gross profit recorded in a given period had consideration not been given to these factors. We combine closely related contracts when all the applicable criteria under SOP 81 1 are met. Similarly, we may segment a project, which may consist of a single contract or a group of contracts, with varying rates of profitability, only if all the applicable criteria under SOP 81 1 are met. We generally use the cost to cost measure of progress for all our long term contracts unless we believe another method more clearly measures progress towards completion of the contract. Under the cost to cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the contract. Contract costs include material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. Revenues, including estimated earned fees or profits, are recorded as costs are incurred. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. Management must make various assumptions and estimates related to contract deliverables including design requirements, performance of subcontractors, cost and availability of materials, productivity and manufacturing efficiency and labor availability. Incentive and award fees are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer or upon achievement of certain program milestones or cost targets. Incentive and award fees, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in estimating profit rates. Estimates of award fees are based on actual awards and anticipated performance which may include the performance of subcontractor or partners depending upon the individual contract requirements. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. Such incentives and penalties are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Our claims on contracts are recorded only if it is probable the claim will result in additional contract revenue and the amounts can be reliably estimated. We have a standard quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of our significant contracts. As part of this process, management reviews include, but are not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. Based on this analysis, any adjustments to sales, costs of sales and profit are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs of sales 36 Table of Contents and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period the loss is determined. Other Revenue Methods To a much lesser extent, we enter into contracts that are not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, or not otherwise within the scope of ARB No. 43 or SOP 81 1. We account for those contracts in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition, or other relevant revenue recognition accounting literature. Revenue under such contracts is generally recognized upon delivery or as the service is performed. Revenue on contracts to sell software is recognized in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Position 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition. Revenue from non software license fees is recognized over the expected life of the continued involvement with the customer. Royalty revenue is recognized when earned. Revenue generated from fixed price service contracts not associated with the design, development, manufacture or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment is recognized as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, our price is fixed or determinable, and we have determined collectability is reasonably assured. We apply the separation guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables for contracts with multiple deliverables. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables should be divided into more than one unit of accounting. For contracts with more than one unit of accounting, we recognize revenue for each deliverable based on the revenue recognition policies discussed above. Other Considerations The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost based pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). The FAR provide guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs are unallowable. In addition, we may enter into agreements with the U.S. Government that address the allowability and allocation of costs to contracts for specific matters. Certain costs incurred in the performance of our U.S. Government contracts are required to be recorded under GAAP but are not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs are deferred and primarily include a portion of our environmental expenses, asset retirement obligations, certain restructuring costs, deferred state income tax, workers compensation and certain other accruals. These costs are allocated to contracts when they are paid or otherwise agreed. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires us to make assumptions about the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. If the level of backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs are allocated to our contracts as allowed costs based upon the U.S. Government cost accounting standards (CAS). The CAS requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit costs differ from the financial accounting standards (FAS) requirements under U.S. GAAP. Given the inherent difficulty in matching individual expense and income items between the CAS and FAS requirements to determine specific recoverability, we have not estimated the incremental FAS expense to be recoverable under our expected future contract activity, and therefore have not deferred any FAS expense for pension and other postretirement benefit plans in 2006 2008. This resulted in $123 million, $259 million and $362 million of incremental expense reflected in our results of operations for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for the difference between CAS and FAS requirements for our pension plans in those years. Pension Costs We have pension plans covering the majority of our employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. We must calculate our pension costs under both U.S. Government CAS and FAS requirements under U.S. GAAP. The calculations under CAS and FAS require judgment. CAS prescribes the allocation to and recovery of pension costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services and the methodology to determine such costs. 37 Table of Contents Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the applicable standard under FAS, outlines the methodology used to determine pension expense or income for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for pension costs and its calculation methodology differ from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use long term assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of pension cost. In addition, the cash funding requirements for our pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). ERISA funding requirements use a third and different method to determine funding requirements, which are primarily based on the years expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. As discussed on page 56 of this Form 10 K, the ERISA funding requirements will be replaced in the future by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 requirements. Accordingly, our FAS pension expense or income is not indicative of the funding requirements or amount of government recovery. We record CAS expense in the results of our business segments. Due to the differences between FAS and CAS amounts, we also present the difference between FAS and CAS expense, referred to as our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, as a separate line item in our business segment results. This effectively increases or decreases the amount of pension expense in our results of operations so such amount is equal to the FAS expense amount under SFAS No. 87. The assumptions in the calculations of our FAS expense and CAS expense, which involve significant judgment, are discussed below. FAS Expense Our long term return on assets (ROA) and discount rate assumptions are the key variables in determining pension expense or income and the funded status of our pension plans under SFAS No. 87. The long term ROA on plan assets represents the average rate of earnings expected over the long term on the funds invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. To develop the long term ROA assumption, we perform periodic studies which consider our asset allocation strategies, our recent and anticipated future long term performance of individual asset classes, and the associated risk. The investment policy asset allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans are as follows: U.S. Equities 20% 55% International Equities 15% 35% Debt Securities 20% 40% Cash 0% 20% Real Estate 2% 10% Other (including private equity) 2% 7% In determining the long term ROA assumption for 2008 and 2007, we compared our analysis of our actual historical returns to a broader market long term forecast adjusted for our asset allocation strategy, net of an estimated long term fee rate. In evaluating our asset allocation strategy, we determined that our higher allocations of debt securities and cash at December 31, 2008, compared to our long term asset allocation strategy, has been driven by recent market conditions and we intend to return to our long term investment allocations once normal volatility levels return to the market. In validating the 2008 long term ROA assumption, we also reviewed our pension plan asset performance since the inception of SFAS No. 87, which includes the impact of the current downturn in the financial markets. Our average actual annual rate of return since the inception of SFAS No. 87 has approximated our estimated 8.75% assumed return. Based upon these analyses and our internal investing targets, we determined our long term ROA assumption for our domestic pension plans in 2008 was 8.75%, consistent with our 2007 assumption. Our domestic pension plans actual rates of return were (25.55%), 7.67% and 16.58% for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The difference between the actual rate of return and our long term ROA assumption is included in deferred losses as discussed below. If we significantly changed our long term investment allocation or strategy, then our long term ROA assumption could change as well. The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate assumption is determined by using a model consisting of a theoretical bond portfolio consisting of bonds AA rated or 38 Table of Contents better by Moodys for which the timing and amount of cash flows approximate the estimated benefit payments of our pension plans. The discount rate assumption for our domestic pension plans at December 31, 2008 is 6.5%, unchanged from 2007. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the assumed long term ROA and the discount rate would have had the following approximate impacts on 2008 pension results: (In millions) Change in assumption used to determine net periodic benefit costs for the year ended December 31, 2008 Discount rate $ 42 Long term ROA 34 Change in assumption used to determine benefit obligations for the year ended December 31, 2008 Discount rate $ 400 CAS Expense In addition to providing the methodology for calculating pension costs, CAS also prescribe the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for pension costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of recognition of such costs is different. The key drivers of CAS pension expense include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans, and our long term ROA assumption. Unlike FAS, CAS require the discount rate to be consistent with the long term ROA, which changes infrequently given its long term nature. As a result, changes in bond or other interest rates generally do not impact CAS. In addition, unlike FAS, we can only allocate pension costs for a plan under CAS until such plan is fully funded as determined under CAS requirements. When the estimated future CAS pension costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our plan assets, the estimated CAS cost to be allocated to our contracts in the future increases. Other FAS and CAS Considerations On an annual basis, at December 31st, we update our estimate of future FAS and CAS pension expense based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. Other variables that can impact the pension plans funded status and FAS and CAS expense include demographic experience such as the expected rates of salary increase, retirement age, turnover and mortality. In addition, certain pension plans provide a lump sum form of benefit that varies based upon externally determined interest rates. Assumptions for these variables are set at the beginning of the year, and are based on actual and projected plan experience. On a periodic basis, generally planned annually in the third quarter, we update our actuarial estimate of the unfunded projected benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS with final census data from the end of the prior year. The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows: (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 FAS expense $ 524 $ 693 $ 826 CAS expense 401 434 464 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment $ 123 $ 259 $ 362 As discussed above, a key driver of the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years and are amortized under CAS over a 15 year period. In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted 39 Table of Contents above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly. From 2006 to 2008, our FAS expense decreased due to the recognition of historical asset returns, which were greater than the expected return between 2003 and 2006 and the expected returns on our discretionary pension contributions. On the other hand, CAS expense over the past three years has remained relatively consistent because the recognition of 2003 to 2006 asset returns was recognized over a longer period of time. As a result of these patterns of earnings and expense recognition, our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment expense decreased over that period. In 2009, we expect that our CAS expense will increase more than our FAS expense which will result in a significant decrease in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. The increase in projected CAS expense is driven by negative asset returns in 2008 which caused certain plans to no longer be fully funded under CAS. While our FAS expense also increased due to the lower than expected return on assets, the expected return on our discretionary contribution to our pension plans in 2008 as well as the additional funding requirements expected in 2009, helped to partially offset the FAS expense increase. After 2009 the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2008, it appears that our FAS expense will exceed our CAS expense after 2009 due to the shorter period in which the negative 2008 asset returns will be smoothed and amortized under FAS. Other Pension Considerations In general, we value our pension plan assets based upon quoted or observable market prices, or other standard valuation techniques that generally assume a liquid market. In addition, we estimate the value of certain non readily marketable investments, which are less than 5% of our pension plan assets at December 31, 2008, based on the most recently available asset data which can be up to three months in arrears, and make a valuation adjustment to the asset data, if necessary, based on the current market environment. In addition, we had $7.9 billion and $3.2 billion of deferred losses in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, driven primarily by differences between actual and expected asset returns, changes in discount rates, changes in plan provisions and differences between actual and assumed demographic experience. The $4.7 billion increase in 2008 was driven primarily by actual asset returns versus our expected return. To the extent that we continue to experience such differences between these items, our funded status and related accrued retiree benefit obligation will change. Increases to our accrued retiree benefit obligation are initially reflected as a reduction to Other comprehensive income. The deferred losses are amortized and included in future pension expense over the average employee service period of approximately 11 years. As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158) as of December 31, 2006, which resulted in a $1.9 billion increase in Accrued retiree benefits and other long term liabilities and a corresponding $1.3 billion decrease, net of taxes, in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in Stockholders equity. Impairment of Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter and in any interim period in which circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, the loss of significant business; significant decreases in federal government appropriations or funding for our contracts; or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. No events occurred during the periods presented that indicated the existence of an impairment with respect to our goodwill related to our continuing operations. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model based on our most recent long range plan, and compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. We discount the related cash flow forecasts using the weighted average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. Preparation of forecasts for use in the long range plan and the selection of the discount rate involve significant judgments that we base primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements and general market conditions. Significant changes in these forecasts or the discount rate selected could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. The 40 Table of Contents combined estimated fair value of all of our reporting units from our DCF model often results in a premium over our market capitalization, commonly referred to as a control premium. We believe our control premium is reasonable based upon historic data of premiums paid on actual transactions within our industry. When available and as appropriate, we also use comparative market multiples to corroborate our DCF model results. There was no indication of goodwill impairment for continuing operations as a result of our impairment analysis. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the future, it could materially affect our results of operations. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We generally express changes in sales in terms of volume in our discussions of comparative period results. Volume generally refers to increases or decreases in revenues related to varying production activity or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes will typically drive a corresponding margin change based on the profit rate for a particular contract. We generally express changes in segment operating income in terms of volume or changes in program performance. Segment operating margin reflects the performance on programs and changes in contract mix. Changes in program performance typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion that reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. We record changes in estimates of contract sales, costs and profits using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes in estimates on current and prior periods. Selected consolidated results were as follows: % of Net Sales (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Net sales $ 23,174 $ 21,301 $ 19,707 Gross margin 4,661 4,264 3,730 20.1 % 20.0 % 18.9 % Administrative and selling expenses 1,548 1,434 1,322 6.7 % 6.7 % 6.7 % Research and development expenses 517 502 464 2.2 % 2.4 % 2.4 % Operating income 2,596 2,328 1,944 11.2 % 10.9 % 9.9 % Interest expense 129 196 272 0.6 % 0.9 % 1.4 % Interest income 64 163 75 0.3 % 0.8 % 0.4 % Other expense (income), net 33 70 (44 ) 0.1 % 0.3 % 0.2 % Federal and foreign income taxes 824 532 604 3.6 % 2.5 % 3.1 % Income from continuing operations 1,674 1,693 1,187 7.2 % 7.9 % 6.0 % (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax (2 ) 885 96 % 4.2 % 0.5 % Net income 1,672 2,578 1,283 7.2 % 12.1 % 6.5 % The increase in Net sales in 2008 was spread across all segments as discussed below in segment results. The increase in Net sales in 2007 was primarily due to higher sales at NCS, MS and IDS. Sales to the U.S. DoD were 83% of sales in 2008, 81% in 2007 and 79% in 2006. Total sales to the U.S. Government were 87% of sales in 2008, and 86% in 2007 and 2006. Included in U.S. Government sales were foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We currently expect defense market trends to continue to positively impact our sales in 2009. However, as discussed above in industry considerations, projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near term due to numerous factors, such as U.S. Government budget appropriation decisions and geo political events and macroeconomic conditions, which are beyond our control. Total international sales, including foreign military sales, were $4.6 billion or 20% of sales in 2008, $4.2 billion or 20% of sales in 2007 and $3.7 billion or 19% of sales in 2006. Gross margin included a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $123 million, $259 million and $362 million of expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, which we report as a separate line item in our segment results, represents the difference between our pension expense or income under SFAS No. 87 and our pension expense under CAS. For more information on the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, see our discussion below in Segment Results. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. 41 Table of Contents Administrative and selling expenses and Research and development expenses remained relatively consistent as a percentage of sales. As discussed below, our provision for state income taxes, which is included in Administrative and selling expenses, has increased over the past three years driven by higher income. The changes in Operating income by segment are described below in Segment Results. The decrease in Interest expense in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. The decrease in Interest expense in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower average outstanding debt. The decrease in Interest income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. The increase in interest income in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a higher average cash balance in 2007. Other expense (income), net in 2008 included a $30 million loss on investments held in rabbi trusts used to fund certain of our non qualified deferred compensation plans. Included in Other expense (income), net in 2007 was a $59 million loss on the early repurchase of long term debt. Included in Other expense (income), net in 2006 was a $24 million gain on the sale of Space Imaging assets and a $34 million favorable adjustment resulting from the settlement of a class action lawsuit, partially offset by a $7 million charge for the tentative settlement of the ERISA purported class action lawsuit filed in 2003. Our effective tax rate, which is used to determine income tax expense, differs from the U.S. statutory rate due to the following: 2008 2007 2006 Statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Tax settlements and refund claims 0.5 9.9 Other items, net 1.5 1.2 1.3 Effective tax rate 33.0 % 23.9 % 33.7 % The effective tax rate was 33.0% in 2008, 23.9% in 2007 and 33.7% in 2006, reflecting the U.S. statutory rate adjusted for various permanent differences between book and tax reporting. Included in the effective tax rate in 2008 was $13 million of benefits which primarily relate to a foreign research incentive refund claim. Included in the effective tax rate in 2007 was a $219 million favorable impact primarily related to the resolution of a federal research credit refund claim for the 1984 1990 years and certain export tax benefit refund claims, which reduced the effective tax rate by 9.9%. The effective tax rates in 2008 and 2007 were reduced by manufacturing benefits, research credits and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) dividend deductions, and were increased by various non deductible expenses. The effective tax rate in 2006 was reduced by export related tax benefits, ESOP dividend deductions, manufacturing benefits and research credits, and was increased by various non deductible expenses. The provision for state income taxes can generally be recovered through the pricing of products and services to the U.S. Government. State income taxes allocated to our contracts were $122 million, $81 million and $29 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and were included in Administrative and selling expenses. Income from continuing operations was $1,674 million or $3.95 per diluted share on 423.7 million average shares outstanding in 2008, $1,693 million or $3.80 per diluted share on 445.7 million average shares outstanding in 2007 and $1,187 million or $2.63 per diluted share on 450.9 million average shares outstanding in 2006. The decrease in Income from continuing operations of $19 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the following: $292 million of higher taxes primarily due to $219 million of tax related benefits in 2007; $56 million increase in Corporate and Eliminations; and $32 million greater net interest expense. These were partially offset by: $188 million in segment operational improvements discussed below in Segment Results; $136 million lower FAS/CAS expense; and $37 million decrease in Other expense (income), net. 42 Table of Contents The increase in Income from continuing operations of $506 million in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the following: $281 million in operational improvements from growth and performance improvements discussed below in Segment Results; $219 million of tax related benefits discussed above; $164 million in lower net interest expense; and $103 million lower FAS/CAS expense. These were partially offset by: $147 million of higher taxes related primarily to our higher income and $114 million increase in Other expense (income), net, driven primarily by the loss on our early repurchase of debt. Operating (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax, described below in Discontinued Operations, was $2 million of loss or $0.01 per diluted share in 2008, $885 million of income or $1.99 per diluted share in 2007 and $96 million of income or $0.21 per diluted share in 2006. Included in Operating (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax in 2007 was a $986 million gain on the sale of Raytheon Aircraft, which was completed in 2007. Net income was $1,672 million or $3.95 per diluted share in 2008, $2,578 million or $5.79 per diluted share in 2007 and $1,283 million or $2.85 per diluted share in 2006. SEGMENT RESULTS We report our results in the following segments: Integrated Defense Systems, Intelligence and Information Systems, Missile Systems, Network Centric Systems, Space and Airborne Systems, and Technical Services. Net Sales (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Integrated Defense Systems $ 5,148 $ 4,695 $ 4,220 Intelligence and Information Systems 3,132 2,742 2,560 Missile Systems 5,377 4,993 4,503 Network Centric Systems 4,510 4,164 3,561 Space and Airborne Systems 4,372 4,288 4,319 Technical Services 2,601 2,174 2,153 Corporate and Eliminations (1,966 ) (1,755 ) (1,609 ) Total $ 23,174 $ 21,301 $ 19,707 Operating Income (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Integrated Defense Systems $ 870 $ 828 $ 691 Intelligence and Information Systems 253 248 234 Missile Systems 581 541 479 Network Centric Systems 552 506 379 Space and Airborne Systems 580 560 604 Technical Services 174 139 153 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment (123 ) (259 ) (362 ) Corporate and Eliminations (291 ) (235 ) (234 ) Total $ 2,596 $ 2,328 $ 1,944 Bookings (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Integrated Defense Systems $ 5,933 $ 6,066 $ 4,118 Intelligence and Information Systems 3,204 4,900 2,701 Missile Systems 6,015 4,925 6,021 Network Centric Systems 4,938 3,904 4,037 Space and Airborne Systems 3,955 3,997 4,021 Technical Services 2,753 1,610 1,418 Corporate 22 96 101 Total $ 26,820 $ 25,498 $ 22,417 43 Table of Contents Bookings represent the dollar value of new contract awards recognized during the period and includes firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated. Bookings for not to exceed contract awards are recorded based on a reasonable estimate of the expected contract definitization, which will generally not be less than 75% of the award, and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the actual amounts definitized or when, prior to definitization, facts and circumstances indicate the previous estimate is no longer reasonable. Bookings in each year are influenced by the timing of awards that may cover multiple fiscal years. Bookings exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g., indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) type contracts), and are reduced for contract cancellations and terminations of bookings recognized in the current year. We reflect contract cancellations and terminations from prior year bookings as well as the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates directly as an adjustment to backlog. Funded Backlog Total Backlog Backlog at December 31 (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Integrated Defense Systems $ 4,802 $ 4,781 $ 4,088 $ 9,883 $ 9,296 $ 7,934 Intelligence and Information Systems 1,890 2,325 893 5,137 5,636 3,935 Missile Systems 6,003 5,218 5,135 9,858 9,379 9,504 Network Centric Systems 4,593 3,957 4,037 5,733 5,102 5,059 Space and Airborne Systems 2,810 3,037 2,770 5,521 5,276 5,591 Technical Services 1,888 1,200 1,263 2,752 1,925 1,815 Total $ 21,986 $ 20,518 $ 18,186 $ 38,884 $ 36,614 $ 33,838 Total backlog includes both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated and or contractually obligated by the customer). Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g. IDIQ). Both funded and unfunded backlog are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. Backlog is increased by bookings and is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. Integrated Defense Systems % Change 2008comparedto 2007 2007comparedto 2006 (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 2006 Net Sales $ 5,148 $ 4,695 $ 4,220 9.6 % 11.3 % Operating Income 870 828 691 5.1 % 19.8 % Operating Margin 16.9 % 17.6 % 16.4 % Bookings $ 5,933 $ 6,066 $ 4,118 2.2 % 47.3 % Total Backlog 9,883 9,296 7,934 6.3 % 17.2 % IDS is a global capabilities integrator specializing in space, air, surface, subsurface and homeland security solutions. IDS leverages its core domain knowledge and key capabilities in sensors, command, control, and communication (C3), effects and mission support to provide best value solutions for warfighters and civil authorities. In 2008, IDS, as the prime contractor for the Patriot Air & Missile Defense System, a long range, high altitude system designed to defeat advanced threats, provided Patriot Configuration 3 upgrades to the U.S. Army as well as major Patriot System upgrades and sales to international customers, including the United Arab Emirates. IDS also continued to serve as the prime mission systems integrator for all electronic and combat systems of the Zumwalt Class Destroyer program (DDG 1000), successfully completing the U.S. Navys Production Readiness Review as well as other major reviews and assessments on this program, as the program transitions to production. Net Sales The increase in sales in 2008 of $453 million was primarily due to higher volume of $199 million on two joint battlefield sensor programs, $119 million on a U.S. Navy combat systems program and $73 million on various Patriot programs. 44 Table of Contents The increase in sales in 2007 of $475 million was primarily due to growth of $183 million on several domestic and international missile defense programs, $137 million on two joint battlefield sensor programs and $104 million on a U.S. Navy combat systems program. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $42 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, partially offset by a change in contract mix driven primarily by the completion of certain programs, and program performance adjustments. The decline in operating margin was primarily due to this change in contract mix, and program performance adjustments. Included in operating income in 2008 and partially offsetting the decline in operating margin was $28 million from the sales of certain software licenses. The IDS operating margin is expected to decline in 2009 due to an expected shift in the mix of international sales and the completion of certain contracts. The increase in operating income of $137 million and the margin improvement in 2007 were primarily due to higher volume and program performance improvements of $78 million on several international and domestic missile defense programs, $27 million on a U.S. Navy combat systems program, and $14 million from sales of certain software licenses. Backlog and Bookings The increase in backlog of $587 million in 2008 was primarily due to 2008 awards for certain Patriot programs. In 2008, IDS booked $2.5 billion to provide the Patriot Air & Missile System to the United Arab Emirates and $533 million on certain contracts for the design, development and support of the Patriot System for other international customers, including $288 million for South Korea, $140 million for Kuwait and $105 million for Taiwan. IDS also booked $237 million to provide engineering services support for Patriot air and missile defense programs and $229 million for the Rapid Aerostat Initial Deployment (RAID) program, both for the U.S. Army. The $1.4 billion increase in backlog and increased bookings in 2007 were mainly due to the Air Warfare Destroyer (AWD) award, a multi year program. In 2007, IDS booked $1.3 billion for the AWD program and $1.3 billion for DDG 1000. IDS also booked $915 million for certain Patriot programs including an international technical support program, an engineering services support program, the Patriot Pure Fleet program, and a Guidance Enhanced Missile Tactical (GEM T) upgrade program. Additionally, IDS booked $298 million on the Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS) program, $195 million on the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) radar program, $118 million for the SPY 1 radar on the AEGIS program and $113 million on the Cobra Judy Replacement Mission Equipment (CJRME) program. Intelligence and Information Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 2006 2008comparedto 2007 2007comparedto 2006 Net Sales $ 3,132 $ 2,742 $ 2,560 14.2 % 7.1 % Operating Income 253 248 234 2.0 % 6.0 % Operating Margin 8.1 % 9.0 % 9.1 % Bookings $ 3,204 $ 4,900 $ 2,701 34.6 % 81.4 % Total Backlog 5,137 5,636 3,935 8.9 % 43.2 % IIS provides broad capabilities and expertise in signal and image processing, geospatial intelligence air and space borne command and control, ground engineering support and weather and environmental management systems, command and control solutions for air/space platforms, operations, maintenance and information technology identity management, information assurance and homeland security solutions. In 2008, IIS continued to grow its business across the intelligence community while growing into international markets and other new opportunities. IIS expanded its existing e Borders contract, an advanced border control and security program for the U.K. Home Office, to provide extended functionality and services for the program. Net Sales The increase in sales in 2008 of $390 million was primarily due to $309 million of higher volume on an advanced border control and security program and a competitive design program for the U.S. Air Forces next generation global positioning ground system. 45 Table of Contents The increase in sales in 2007 of $182 million was primarily due to $90 million on an advanced border control and security program, increased volume on several programs with the U.S. Air Force and several information technology programs. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $5 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, partially offset by certain acquisition costs and other investments in cyber operations and information security capabilities. The decline in operating margin in 2008 was primarily due to the acquisition costs and investments noted above. The increase in operating income of $14 million in 2007 was primarily due to increased volume, partially offset by costs related to the Oakley Networks, Inc. acquisition. Backlog and Bookings The decrease in backlog of $499 million and bookings of $1.7 billion in 2008 were primarily due to large bookings in 2007 described below. In 2008, IIS booked $1.8 billion on a number of classified contracts, including $379 million on a major classified program. The $1.7 billion increase in backlog and increased bookings in 2007 was primarily due to the e Borders booking, a multi year project. During 2007, IIS booked $1.4 billion for e Borders, $1.4 billion on a number of classified contracts, $781 million on the National Polar orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) program and $101 million for the U.S. Air Forces Consolidated Field Service contract to provide global intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support. Missile Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 2006 2008comparedto 2007 2007comparedto 2006 Net Sales $ 5,377 $ 4,993 $ 4,503 7.7 % 10.9 % Operating Income 581 541 479 7.4 % 12.9 % Operating Margin 10.8 % 10.8 % 10.6 % Bookings $ 6,015 $ 4,925 $ 6,021 22.1 % 18.2 % Total Backlog 9,858 9,379 9,504 5.1 % 1.3 % MS develops and supports a broad range of cutting edge weapon systems that include missiles, smart munitions, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles, space vehicles and directed energy effectors. In 2008, MS and the U.S. Navy successfully conducted the first two flight tests of the Standard Missile 6 (SM 6) extended range anti air warfare missile, which demonstrated the first successful integration of the Navys active missile technology into a weapon system that provides both near term advanced anti air warfare and future over the horizon capability. In addition, MS continued to demonstrate its missile defense capability with several significant test successes and contract awards. The Missile Defense Agency and the U.S. Navy completed a successful mission, intercepting a non functioning satellite with a specially modified Standard Missile 3 (SM 3). Net Sales The increase in sales in 2008 of $384 million was primarily due to $362 million of higher volume on the Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missile (AMRAAM), Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM), Phalanx, PavewayTM and Tube launched Optically guided Wire controlled missile (TOW) programs. The increase in sales in 2007 of $490 million was primarily due to $414 million of higher volume on the Standard Missile, Phalanx and Evolved Sea Sparrow (ESSM) programs. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $40 million in 2008 was primarily due to higher volume. Operating margin in 2008 remained consistent with 2007. The increase in operating income of $62 million in 2007 was primarily due to increased volume. 46 Table of Contents Backlog and Bookings The $479 million increase in backlog and the $1.1 billion increase in bookings in 2008 were primarily due to 2008 awards for the SM 3 program. In 2008, MS booked $1.2 billion for the production of SM 3 for the U.S. Navy and the Missile Defense Agency, $624 million for the production of the AMRAAM program for international customers and the U.S. Air Force, $577 million on Standard Missile Development and Production, and $478 million for the production of Tactical Tomahawk cruise missiles for the U.S. Navy. The $125 million decrease in backlog and the $1.1 billion decrease in bookings in 2007 were primarily driven by certain large development bookings in 2006. In 2007, MS booked $691 million on Standard Missile Development and Production, $283 million for the TOW missiles, $247 million for ESSM Production, a $253 million Tactical Tomahawk award, $237 million for Phalanx Weapons Systems for the U.S. Navy and U.S. Army, $232 million for the design and development of the Mid Range Munition system, $145 million for the production of Enhanced Paveway for an international customer, and $111 million for the production of Javelin for the U.S. Army and U.S. Marines. Network Centric Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 2006 2008comparedto 2007 2007comparedto 2006 Net Sales $ 4,510 $ 4,164 $ 3,561 8.3 % 16.9 % Operating Income 552 506 379 9.1 % 33.5 % Operating Margin 12.2 % 12.2 % 10.6 % Bookings $ 4,938 $ 3,904 $ 4,037 26.5 % 3.3 % Total Backlog 5,733 5,102 5,059 12.4 % 0.8 % NCS develops and produces mission solutions for networking, command and control, battle space awareness and transportation management. In 2008, NCS continued developing and expanding its international business and presence overseas. NCS had key initiatives into adjacent markets including international and domestic border security, civil communications and first responder interoperability as well as transportation solutions, including open road tolling. NCS was awarded the Joint Precision Approach and Landing System (JPALS) contract to provide an all weather, anti jam shipboard landing capability to the U.S. Navy, which will enable pinpoint landing accuracy. Net Sales The increase in sales in 2008 of $346 million was due to higher volume on certain U.S. Army programs, including an integrated ground combat surveillance program, a communications program and a long range multi sensor system program. The increase in sales in 2007 of $603 million was primarily due to $485 million of increased volume on certain U.S. Army programs, including an integrated ground combat surveillance program, a weapon locating radar program, the Improved Target Acquisition System (ITAS) program and a communications program. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $46 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume on certain U.S. Army programs. Operating margin in 2008 remained consistent with 2007. The increase in operating income of $127 million and the margin improvement in 2007 were primarily due to $98 million of improved program performance and volume on certain U.S. Army programs. Backlog and Bookings The increase of $631 million in backlog and increased bookings in 2008 were primarily due to an increase in U.S. Army awards. In 2008, NCS booked $570 million to provide Horizontal Technology Integration (HTI) forward looking infrared kits and $279 million for the Long Range Advanced Scout Surveillance Systems (LRAS3) for the U.S. Army. NCS also booked $233 million for the design and development phase of JPALS for the U.S. Navy, $231 million for the production of ITAS for the U.S. Army and the U.S. Marines and $115 million for the Airborne, Maritime and Fixed Site (AMF) Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) program. The 2007 backlog and bookings remained relatively consistent with 2006. In 2007, NCS booked $725 million on various U.S. Army programs including the LRAS3 program, the Firefinder locating radar program, SATCOM on the move 47 Table of Contents systems to the U.S. Army for use on the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle, and the HTI program. NCS also booked $159 million for development work on the U.S. Navy Multiband Terminal (NMT) contract and $121 million on the Commanders Independent Viewers (CIVs) program. Space and Airborne Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 2006 2008comparedto 2007 2007comparedto 2006 Net Sales $ 4,372 $ 4,288 $ 4,319 2.0 % 0.7 % Operating Income 580 560 604 3.6 % 7.3 % Operating Margin 13.3 % 13.1 % 14.0 % Bookings $ 3,955 $ 3,997 $ 4,021 1.1 % 0.6 % Total Backlog 5,521 5,276 5,591 4.6 % 5.6 % SAS designs and develops integrated systems and solutions for advanced missions including traditional and non traditional intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, precision engagement, unmanned aerial operations, special forces operations and space. In 2008, SAS demonstrated the Advanced Distributed Aperture System (ADAS), a high definition situational awareness capability for helicopter aircrews, in conjunction with the U.S. Army Night Vision Electronic Systems directorate. SAS and the U.K. Ministry of Defence successfully completed capabilities assurance mission testing of the Airborne Stand Off Radar (ASTOR) system, a world class ground surveillance capability, prior to the system entering into service with the Royal Air Force. Net Sales The increase in sales in 2008 of $84 million was primarily due to higher volume on certain sensor programs, partially offset by a $137 million decrease in volume on a classified program and an international advanced countermeasures program. The decrease in sales in 2007 of $31 million was primarily due to lower volume of $93 million on a sensor program, partially offset by higher volume on certain airborne radar and classified programs. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $20 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume. Operating margin in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007. The decrease in operating income of $44 million and the decline in margin in 2007 were primarily due to profit adjustments and lower volume on a sensor program and certain classified programs, partially offset by improved program performance on an international aircraft integration program. Backlog and Bookings The increase in backlog of $245 million in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in classified bookings. In 2008, SAS booked $1.5 billion on a number of classified contracts. The decrease in backlog of $315 million in 2007 was primarily due to stop work orders issued on a space classified program. In 2007, SAS booked over $860 million on a number of classified contracts, including $381 million on a major classified program in the fourth quarter. SAS also booked $329 million related to a capability for a satellite system. Technical Services % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 2006 2008comparedto 2007 2007comparedto 2006 Net Sales $ 2,601 $ 2,174 $ 2,153 19.6 % 1.0 % Operating Income 174 139 153 25.2 % 9.2 % Operating Margin 6.7 % 6.4 % 7.1 % Bookings $ 2,753 $ 1,610 $ 1,418 71.0 % 13.5 % Total Backlog 2,752 1,925 1,815 43.0 % 6.1 % 48 Table of Contents TS provides technical, scientific and professional services, as well as a full spectrum of training services and outsourcing for defense, federal and commercial customers worldwide. It specializes in Mission Support, counter proliferation and counter terrorism, range operations, product support, homeland security solutions and customized engineering services. In 2008, TS continued to expand its Global Training Solutions capabilities and offerings. TS led a team that secured the Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solution (ATCOTS) contract to maintain and improve air traffic controller (ATC) training and support the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in meeting current and future ATC demands. TS also continued as the lead for the Warfighter Field Operations Customer Support (FOCUS) program to consolidate the U.S. Army live, virtual and constructive training operations and support systems worldwide. Net Sales The increase in sales of $427 million in 2008 was primarily due to $381 million of growth on our training programs, principally on the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS contract. The increase in sales in 2007 of $21 million was primarily due to higher volume on certain Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) programs, training, and international programs, partially offset by a $113 million decrease at our depot services operation. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $35 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume. Operating margin in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007. The decrease in operating income of $14 million and the decline in margins in 2007 were primarily due to lower volume in our higher margin depot services operation. Backlog and Bookings The increase of $827 million in backlog and increased bookings in 2008 were primarily due to bookings on the Warfighter FOCUS and ATCOTS contracts. In 2008, TS booked $957 million and $436 million for work on the Warfighter FOCUS and ATCOTS contracts, respectively. The increase in backlog and bookings in 2007 was primarily due to bookings on the Warfighter FOCUS contract, work for the Department of Energy and the DTRA. In 2007, TS booked $492 million on work for the Department of Energy and the DTRA, and $118 million on the Warfighter FOCUS contract. FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment and Corporate and Eliminations The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment represents the difference between our pension expense or income under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and our pension expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows: (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 FAS expense $ 524 $ 693 $ 826 CAS expense 401 434 464 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment $ 123 $ 259 $ 362 As discussed above, a key driver of the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differs from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years and are amortized under CAS over a 15 year period. In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly. 49 Table of Contents From 2006 to 2008, our FAS expense decreased due to the recognition of historical asset returns, which were greater than the expected return between 2003 and 2006 and the expected returns on our discretionary pension contributions. On the other hand, CAS expense over the past three years has remained relatively consistent because the recognition of 2003 to 2006 asset returns was recognized over a longer period of time. As a result of these patterns of earnings and expense recognition, our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment expense decreased over that period. In 2009, we expect that our CAS expense will increase more than our FAS expense which will result in a significant decrease in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. The increase in projected CAS expense is driven by negative asset returns in 2008 which caused certain plans to no longer be fully funded under CAS. While our FAS expense also increased due to the lower than expected return on assets, the expected return on our discretionary contribution to our pension plans in 2008 as well as the additional funding requirements expected in 2009, helped to partially offset the FAS expense increase. After 2009 the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2008, it appears that our FAS expense will exceed our CAS expense after 2009 due to the shorter period in which the negative 2008 asset returns will be smoothed and amortized under FAS. Corporate and Eliminations includes corporate expenses and intersegment sales and profit eliminations. Corporate expenses represent unallocated costs and certain other corporate costs not considered part of managements evaluation of reportable segment operating performance, including the $69 million reduction to operating income related to increased estimated future pension costs discussed below and the net costs associated with our residual commuter aircraft portfolio. The components of net sales related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows: (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Intersegment sales eliminations $ (1,945 ) $ (1,829 ) $ (1,714 ) Corporate (21 ) 74 105 Total $ (1,966 ) $ (1,755 ) $ (1,609 ) The components of operating income related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows: (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Intersegment profit eliminations $ (173 ) $ (161 ) $ (149 ) Corporate (118 ) (74 ) (85 ) Total $ (291 ) $ (235 ) $ (234 ) As discussed above in Critical Accounting Estimates, pension costs as calculated under the U.S. Government CAS are a component of our estimated costs to complete each of our U.S. Government contracts. On an annual basis, we update our estimate of future CAS pension costs based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. When these estimated future costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our pension assets, the estimated costs to complete each existing contract increases. The amounts of revenue and profit which are recognizable based upon our estimated percent complete and expected margins on our contracts, principally on our fixed price contracts, were reduced. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a cumulative catch up adjustment for this reduction in revenue and profit of $69 million as part of Corporate and Eliminations consistent with our internal management reporting and performance evaluation. The components of the adjustment are as follows: (In millions) Integrated Defense Systems $ 20 Intelligence and Information Systems 7 Missile Systems 14 Network Centric Systems 12 Space and Airborne Systems 12 Technical Services 4 Total $ 69 50 Table of Contents DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Operating (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax consisted of the following results from Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options, and Other Discontinued Operations, composed of Raytheon Engineers & Constructors and Aircraft Integration Systems: Pretax After tax (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Gain on sale of Raytheon Aircraft $ $ 1,598 $ $ $ 986 $ Raytheon Aircraft discontinued operations 6 45 274 8 30 181 Loss on sale of Flight Options (73 ) (44 ) Flight Options discontinued operations (112 ) (103 ) (88 ) (80 ) Other Discontinued Operations (1 ) 8 (7 ) (10 ) 1 (5 ) Total $ 5 $ 1,466 $ 164 $ (2 ) $ 885 $ 96 In 2007, we sold our Raytheon Aircraft Company (Raytheon Aircraft) and Flight Options LLC (Flight Options) businesses. As a result, we present Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options and our other previously disposed businesses (Other Discontinued Operations) as discontinued operations for all periods. All residual activity relating to our disposed businesses appears in discontinued operations. We sold Raytheon Aircraft for $3,318 million in gross proceeds, $3,117 million, net. We recorded a gain on sale of $986 million, net of $612 million of federal, foreign and state taxes. We sold Flight Options and recorded a loss on sale of $73 million pretax, $44 million after tax. In connection with the sale of Flight Options we recorded a note receivable for $9 million, which was subsequently collected in 2008. In 2007, we sought and received a number of initial bids to purchase Flight Options. These initial bids were below our previous estimates of Flight Options fair value, which was based upon its projected discounted cash flows. As a result of receiving these external indications of market value and other conditions and events that occurred during the year, we recorded an impairment charge of $84 million pretax, $69 million after tax, which included all of Flight Options remaining goodwill and a portion of its other intangible assets. In 2006 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $55 million pretax, $48 million after tax, related to Flight Options. We retained certain assets and liabilities of these disposed businesses. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $71 million and $61 million, respectively, in non current assets primarily related to our subordinated retained interest in general aviation finance receivables previously sold by Raytheon Aircraft. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $77 million and $88 million, respectively, primarily in current liabilities related to certain environmental and product liabilities, aircraft lease obligations, non income tax obligations, and various contract obligations. We also have certain income tax obligations relating to these disposed businesses, which we include in our income tax disclosures. The Internal Revenue Service recently concluded a federal excise tax audit and assessed us additional excise tax related to the treatment of certain Flight Options customer fees and charges, which we have appealed. We continue to believe that an unfavorable outcome is not probable and expect that any potential liability will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We also retained certain U.K. pension assets and obligations for a limited number of U.K. pension plan participants as part of the Raytheon Aircraft sale, which we include in our pension disclosures. No interest expense was allocated to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 since there was no debt specifically attributable to discontinued operations or required to be repaid with proceeds from the sales. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Overview We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases, as outlined below. Our need for, cost of and access to funds are dependent on future operating results, as well as other external 51 Table of Contents conditions. We currently expect that cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and other available financing resources will be sufficient to meet anticipated operating, capital expenditure, investment, debt service and other financing requirements during the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future. During 2008, certain significant cash outflows were as follows: $1.7 billion of share repurchases; $378 million for payments for additions to plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software additions; $448 million of net federal and foreign tax payments; $460 million in dividend payments; $54 million for business acquisitions, net of cash received; and $660 million of discretionary pension plan contributions. We discuss these cash outflows in more detail below. In addition, the following table highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources as of December 31, 2008 and 2007: (In millions, except percentages) 2008 2007 Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,259 $ 2,655 Working capital 2,268 2,828 Amount available under our credit facility 2,160 2,140 Total debt as a percentage of total capital 20.3 % 15.3 % The increase in total debt as a percentage of total capital was primarily due to a reduction in equity driven by a $4.7 billion pretax, $3.0 billion after tax, increase in the unfunded projected benefit obligation driven primarily by actual asset returns versus our expected return. Operating Activities (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 2,036 $ 1,249 $ 2,477 Cash provided by operating activities $ 2,015 $ 1,198 $ 2,743 The increase of $817 million in net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to lower tax payments and pension plan contributions. The decrease of $1,545 million in net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to higher pension plan contributions of $1,318 million in 2007 compared to $561 million in 2006 as well as higher net cash tax payments. Tax Payments Total federal and foreign tax payments, net of refunds, were $448 million in 2008 compared to $734 million in 2007 and $375 million in 2006. Net tax payments in 2007 included $631 million of payments related to the sale of Raytheon Aircraft and refunds of $381 million related to a federal research credit claim and export tax benefit claims. Federal and foreign tax payments, net of refunds, for 2009 are expected to approximate $230 million. Pension Plan Contributions We make both discretionary and required contributions to our pension plans. Required contributions are primarily determined by ERISA rules and are affected by the actual return on plan assets and plan funded status. As discretionary contributions are made, a funding credit is accumulated which can be used to offset future calculated required contributions. The funding credit for our pension plans was $2.4 billion at December 31, 2008. We made discretionary and required contributions during 2008, 2007 and 2006 as follows: (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Discretionary contributions $ 660 $ 900 $ 200 Required contributions 514 416 357 Total $ 1,174 $ 1,316 $ 557 52 Table of Contents Discretionary contributions in 2008 were lower than in 2007 due to the acceleration of a planned 2008 contribution of $500 million into December 2007. We expect to make required contributions to our pension plans of approximately $1.1 billion in 2009. The expected increase in required contributions over 2008 is primarily due to the impact of the significant decline in the value of our pension plan assets in 2008. We will continue to periodically evaluate whether to make additional discretionary contributions. Future funding requirements will likely be affected by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as further discussed below in Contractual Obligations. Financing Receivables Collections of financing receivables were $68 million in 2008, $88 million in 2007 and $176 million in 2006. As a result of our sales of Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options in 2007, we do not expect to originate any significant long term aircraft financing receivables in the future; however, we continue to hold $85 million of long term financing receivables as part of our commuter aircraft portfolio. In 2006, we received proceeds of $53 million related to the sale of certain financing receivables. Interest payments were $142 million, $232 million and $273 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Investing Activities (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities from continuing operations $ (417 ) $ 2,536 $ (403 ) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (417 ) $ 2,507 $ (451 ) The decrease of $2,924 million in net cash (used in) provided by investing activities in 2008 was primarily due to the proceeds from divestitures in 2007 discussed in more detail below. Additions to property, plant and equipment were $304 million in 2008, $313 million in 2007 and $294 million in 2006. Additions to capitalized internal use software were $74 million in 2008, $85 million in 2007 and $77 million in 2006. We expect our capital and internal use software expenditures to be approximately $370 million and $90 million, respectively, in 2009, consistent with the anticipated growth of our business and for specific investments including program capital assets and facility improvements. In pursuing our business strategies, we acquire and make investments in certain businesses that meet strategic and financial criteria and divest of certain non core businesses and investments and assets when appropriate. Acquisitions In 2008, we acquired Telemus Solutions, Inc. and SI Government Solutions, which enhance our Information Operations and Information Assurance (IO/IA) capabilities, for an aggregate of $52 million in cash. In 2007, we acquired Oakley Networks, Inc., which enhanced our IO/IA capabilities, and the robotics technologies and capabilities of Sarcos for an aggregate of $211 million, exclusive of retention and management incentive payments for future services. In 2006, we acquired Houston Associates, Inc. and Virtual Technology Corporation for an aggregate of $87 million. Divestitures and Sales of Other Assets In 2007, we received pretax net proceeds of $3,143 million related to our sales of Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options. In 2006, we sold our investment in HRL Laboratories, LLC for $28 million and received proceeds of $24 million related to the sale of Space Imaging assets. Financing Activities (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations $ (1,994 ) $ (3,510 ) $ (1,009 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (1,994 ) $ (3,510 ) $ (1,034 ) We have used cash provided by operating activities as our primary source for the repayment of debt, payment of dividends and the repurchase of our common stock. In 2007, we also used the proceeds from the sale of Raytheon Aircraft for such activities. The decrease of $1,516 million in net cash used in financing activities in 2008 was primarily due to the repayments of long term debt in 2007 discussed in more detail below. Our next debt principal payment of $453 million is due in 2011. 53 Table of Contents Debt We made no debt repayments in 2008 compared to $1,724 million in 2007 and $382 million in 2006. Our 2007 debt repayments consisted of the retirement of $685 million of current maturities and the exercise of our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to U.S. Treasuries, $1,039 million of our long term debt maturing between 2008 2010 at a loss of $59 million pretax, which is included in Other expense (income), net. In 2006, we retired $408 million of subordinated notes payable which had matured, consisting of a payment of $382 million and a reduction in our investment in RC Trust I of $26 million. Stock Repurchases Information on our repurchases of our common stock under our share repurchase programs is as follows: (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Amount of stock repurchased $ 1,700 $ 1,642 $ 352 Shares of stock repurchased 30.7 28.7 7.9 In October 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008 we had not repurchased any shares of our common stock under this program. In October 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $1,930 million of our common stock had been repurchased and approximately $70 million remained under this program. In December 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the fourth quarter of 2007. In March 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the second quarter of 2007. In November 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $700 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the third quarter of 2006. Cash Dividends Our Board of Directors authorized the following cash dividends: (In millions, except per share amounts) 2008 2007 2006 Cash dividends per share $ 1.12 $ 1.02 $ 0.96 Total dividends paid $ 460 $ 440 $ 420 Although we do not have a formal dividend policy we believe that a reasonable dividend payout ratio is approximately one third of our economic earnings (income excluding the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment). Dividends are subject to quarterly approval by our Board of Directors. CAPITAL RESOURCES Total debt was $2.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Our outstanding debt bears contractual interest at fixed interest rates ranging from 4.9% to 7.2% and matures at various dates through 2028. We entered into various interest rate swaps that correspond to a portion of our fixed rate debt in order to effectively hedge interest rate risk by converting that portion of our total fixed rate debt to variable rate debt based on LIBOR. The notional value of interest rate swaps outstanding was $575 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents were $2.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2007. We invest cash directly in U.S. Treasuries; commercial paper of financial institutions and corporations with AA /Aa3 or better long term and A 1+/P 1 short term debt ratings, or guaranteed by the U.S. Governments TLGP program; AAA/Aaa U.S. Treasury money market funds; and interest bearing accounts. Cash balances held at our foreign subsidiaries were approximately 15% of our total cash balance at December 31, 2008, and are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. 54 Table of Contents Credit Facilities We have a $2.2 billion bank revolving credit facility under which we can draw on lines of credit, issue letters of credit and backstop commercial paper. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 40 basis points (based on Raytheons credit rating at December 31, 2008). The credit facility is comprised of commitments from approximately thirty separate highly rated lenders, each committing no more than 10% of the entire facility. The credit facility matures in March 2010 and we intend to renew prior to maturity. The terms of the renewed facility, including the amount of the facility, maturity, pricing and covenants, will depend on market conditions at the time of renewal. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility. However, we had approximately $40 million and $60 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which effectively reduced our borrowing capacity under the credit facility by that same amount at each of the respective dates. Under our credit facility, we must comply with certain covenants, including a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 50% and a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to consolidated net interest expense, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of no less than 3.0 to 1.0. We were in compliance with the covenants during 2008 and 2007. Our ratio of total debt to total capitalization was 20.3% and 15.3% at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our ratio of EBITDA to consolidated net interest expense was 45.4 and 105.9 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Certain of our foreign subsidiaries maintain revolving bank lines of credit to provide them with a limited amount of short term liquidity. In 2005, Raytheon United Kingdom Limited, a U.K. subsidiary, entered into a three year, $150 million committed multicurrency revolving credit facility that expired in December 2008 and was not renewed. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2007. In addition, other uncommitted bank lines totaled approximately $10 million and $15 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There were no amounts outstanding under these lines of credit at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Compensating balance arrangements are not material. Credit Ratings Three major corporate debt rating organizations, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Standard & Poors (S&P), assign ratings to our short term and long tem debt. The following chart reflects the current ratings assigned by each of these agencies to our short term debt and long term senior unsecured debt: Short Term Long Term Senior Debt Rating Agency Debt Rating Outlook Date of Last Action Fitch F2 A Stable September 2008 Moodys P 2 Baa1 Stable March 2007 S&P A 2 A Stable September 2008 In September 2008, Fitch upgraded our long term senior unsecured debt rating from BBB+ to A and S&P upgraded our long term senior unsecured debt rating from BBB+ to A . Shelf Registrations The capacity of our current shelf registration, filed with the SEC in October 2008, is $3.0 billion, of which $450 million was used for the registration of common stock issuable under certain outstanding warrants issued in 2006. During the current downturn in global financial markets, some companies have experienced difficulties accessing their cash equivalents, trading investment securities, drawing on revolvers, issuing debt and raising capital generally, which have had a material adverse impact on their liquidity. Given our current cash position, credit ratings, available credit facilities, cash needs, and debt structure, along with the type of short term investments we have made, we have not experienced any material issues and we continue to expect that our current liquidity, notwithstanding these adverse market conditions, will be sufficient to meet all our anticipated needs during the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future. 55 Table of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following is a schedule of our contractual obligations outstanding at December 31, 2008: (In millions) Total Less than1 year 13years 45years After 5years Debt(1) $ 2,289 $ $ 453 $ 678 $ 1,158 Interest payments 1,372 138 265 205 764 Operating leases(2) 978 273 337 164 204 Purchase obligations 9,001 5,816 2,540 303 342 Total $ 13,640 $ 6,227 $ 3,595 $ 1,350 $ 2,468 (1) Debt includes scheduled principal payments only. (2) Capital lease payments are not material. Purchase obligations in the table above represent agreements with suppliers to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding. We enter into contracts with customers, primarily the U.S. Government, which entitles us to full recourse for costs incurred, including purchase obligations, in the event the contract is terminated by the customer for convenience. These purchase obligations are included above notwithstanding the amount for which we are entitled to full recourse from our customers. The table above does not include pension and other postretirement contributions which we expect to make in 2009 of up to $1.2 billion, exclusive of any government recovery. In 2006, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Pension Act) was signed into law. Under the Pension Act, companies will be required to fully fund their pension plans over a seven year period. For certain defense contractors, the new funding rules become effective no sooner than 2009 and no later than 2011, depending on when the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards Board (CAS Board) aligns the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) with the new funding requirements. In September 2008, the CAS Board issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on the harmonization of certain CAS with the Pension Act. It is expected that the final rule would provide a framework to partially harmonize the CAS and ERISA rules as revised by the Pension Act, which requires companies to fully fund their pension plans over a seven year period. Interest payments include interest on debt that is redeemable at the option of the Company and do not include interest payments on interest rate swap agreements. As of December 31, 2008, the total amount of net unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and the accrual for the related interest, net of the federal benefit, was $478 million. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate when cash settlement, if any, will occur with a tax authority as the timing of examinations and ultimate resolutions of those examinations is uncertain. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into off balance sheet arrangements, including the sale of general aviation receivables. Such arrangements are not material to our overall liquidity or capital resources, market risk support or credit risk support as detailed below. We also issue guarantees to third parties on behalf of our affiliates as described below in Commitments and Contingencies. In 2006, we sold $67 million of general aviation finance receivables to a qualifying special purpose entity which in turn issued beneficial interests in these receivables to a commercial paper conduit, and retained a subordinated interest in and servicing rights to the receivables. The sale was non recourse to us due to third party financial guarantees. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the outstanding balance of securitized accounts receivable from the 2006 and previous sales of general aviation finance receivables held by the third party conduit totaled $99 million and $135 million, respectively, of which our subordinated retained interest was $66 million and $63 million, respectively, and the fair value of the servicing liability was less than $1 million in both years. 56 Table of Contents In 1997, we provided a first loss guarantee of $133 million on $1.3 billion of U.S. Export Import Bank loans (maturing in 2015) to the Brazilian Government related to the System for the Vigilance of the Amazon (SIVAM) program being performed by NCS. Loan repayments by the Brazilian Government were current at December 31, 2008. In addition, we have entered into certain joint ventures formed specifically to facilitate a teaming arrangement between two contractors for the benefit of the customer, generally the U.S. Government, whereby we receive a subcontract from the joint venture in the joint ventures capacity as prime contractor. Accordingly, we record the work we perform for the joint venture as an operating activity. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. Our estimate of total environmental remediation costs is $157 million at December 31, 2008. Discounted at a weighted average risk free rate of 5.7%, we estimate the liability to be $105 million before U.S. Government recovery and had this amount accrued at December 31, 2008. A portion of these costs are eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. We consider such recovery probable based on government contracting regulations and our long history of receiving reimbursement for such costs. Accordingly, we recorded $69 million in Contracts in process through December 31, 2008 for the estimated future recovery of these costs from the U.S. Government. We also lease certain government owned properties and are generally not liable for environmental remediation at these sites; as a result, we generally do not reflect the provision for these costs in our consolidated financial statements. Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance coverage and the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of these matters; however, we do not expect any additional liability to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We issue guarantees and banks and surety companies issue, on our behalf, letters of credit and surety bonds to meet various bid, performance, warranty, retention and advance payment obligations of us or our affiliates. Approximately $281 million, $1,012 million and $111 million of these guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds, for which there were stated values, were outstanding at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $261 million, $910 million and $104 million were outstanding at December 31, 2007, respectively. These instruments expire on various dates through 2015. Additional guarantees of project performance for which there is no stated value also remain outstanding. Included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $59 million and $180 million at December 31, 2008, respectively and $39 million and $193 million at December 31, 2007, respectively, related to our joint venture in Thales Raytheon Systems Co. Ltd. (TRS). TRS has two major operating subsidiaries, one of which, Thales Raytheon Systems Co. LLC (TRS LLC), we control and consolidate and the other one, Thales Raytheon Systems Company S.A.S. (TRS SAS), which we account for using the equity method through our investment in TRS. Our investment in TRS was $227 million at December 31, 2008 and $165 million at December 31, 2007. We provide these guarantees and letters of credit to TRS and other affiliates to assist these entities in obtaining financing on more favorable terms, making bids on contracts and performing their contractual obligations. While we expect these entities to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations, their failure to do so may result in a future obligation to us. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had an estimated liability of $2 million and $3 million, respectively, related to these guarantees and letters of credit. We evaluate the risk of TRS and other affiliates failing to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations described above periodically. At December 31, 2008 we believe the risk that TRS and other affiliates will not be able to perform or meet their obligations is minimal for the foreseeable future based on their current financial condition. All obligations were current at December 31, 2008. Also included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $86 million and $6 million at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $85 million and $21 million at December 31, 2007, respectively, related to discontinued operations. Our residual turbo prop commuter aircraft portfolio has exposure to outstanding financing arrangements with the aircraft serving as collateral. We have sold and leased commuter aircraft globally to thinly capitalized companies whose financial condition could be significantly affected by a number of factors, including rising fuel and other costs, industry consolidation, declining commercial aviation market conditions and the U.S. Government budget for the Essential Air 57 Table of Contents Service program. Based on recent economic trends, including tightening credit markets and volatile fuel costs, these companies may increasingly experience difficulties meeting their financial commitments. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our exposure on commuter aircraft assets held as inventory, collateral on notes or as leased assets, was approximately $170 million relating to 127 aircraft and approximately $250 million relating to 156 aircraft, respectively. The valuation of used aircraft in inventories, which are stated at cost, but not in excess of realizable value, requires significant judgment. The valuation of used aircraft is also considered in assessing the realizable value of certain commuter aircraft related assets which serve as collateral for the underlying financing arrangements. As part of the assessment of realizable value, we evaluate many factors including sales transaction history, current market conditions, anticipated future market conditions and age and condition of the aircraft. The carrying value of our commuter aircraft portfolio assumes an orderly disposition of these assets, consistent with our historical experience and strategy. If we were to dispose of these assets in an other than orderly manner or sell the portfolio in its entirety, the value realized would likely be less than the carrying value. Government contractors are subject to many levels of audit and investigation. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional Committees. The Department of Justice, from time to time, has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S. and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government regulation or any applicable U.S. Government regulation (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations) may also be investigated or audited. We do not expect these audits and investigations to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In March 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures regarding an entitys derivative and hedging activities. These enhanced disclosures include information regarding how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and its related interpretations; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). SFAS No. 141(R) expands the definition of a business and establishes the use of the acquisition method for business combinations. This method requires all assets and liabilities, including goodwill, of an acquired business to be measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Among other things, the standard requires entities to expense most transaction and restructuring costs; establishes fair value measurement for contingent consideration in earnings; and requires capitalization of in process research and development. The standard also modifies the recording and presentation of deferred taxes. SFAS No. 141(R) will be applied prospectively to business combinations with acquisition dates on or after January 1, 2009. Our adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) is not expected to materially impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity when it becomes effective. Subsequent to our adoption of SFAS No. 141(R), the resolution of existing balances related to uncertain tax positions from prior acquisitions that differ from previously recorded amounts will be adjusted through earnings. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests by recharacterizing them as noncontrolling interests and classifying them as a component of Stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheet. Our consolidated statements of operations will include: net income from Raytheon and the minority shareholders share of earnings and a new category called net earnings attributable to Raytheon, which is similar to our current presentation of Net income. SFAS 58 Table of Contents No. 160 will also expand disclosures to clearly distinguish between our interests and the interests of noncontrolling owners. Our primary noncontrolling interest relates to Thales Raytheon Systems Co. LLC (TRS LLC), which we control and consolidate. Both TRS LLC and Thales Raytheon Systems Co. Ltd. (TRS), an equity method investment which has the principal economic interest in TRS LLC, are components in computing the operating results of our Network Centric Systems segment. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 160, we will present the noncontrolling interest in TRS LLC and the related equity method investment in TRS net of any obligations or interests to Raytheon. This will effectively reduce the minority interest in TRS LLC and the balance of our equity investment in TRS. The effect of this as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 will be to reduce the balance of the equity investment in TRS by $162 million and $133 million, respectively, with a corresponding decrease in the reported noncontrolling interest. SFAS No. 160 is effective beginning January 1, 2009 and will be applied prospectively, except for presentation and disclosure requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. SFAS No. 160 does not impact the calculation of Net income or Earnings per share attributable to Raytheon shareholders. Other new pronouncements issued but not effective until after December 31, 2008, are not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable rate short term and fixed rate long term financing. We enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. The market risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. For long term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. For forward currency exchange contracts, the table presents notional principal amounts by contractual maturity dates. As of December 31, 2008 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Long Term Debt 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ $ 453 $ 333 $ 345 $ 1,158 $ 2,289 $ (2,493 ) Average interest rate 4.85 % 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.84 % 6.03 % As of December 31, 2007 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Long Term Debt 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ 453 $ 333 $ 1,503 $ 2,289 $ (2,446 ) Average interest rate 4.85 % 5.50 % 6.50 % 6.03 % 59 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008 Aggregate Notional Amounts Associated with Interest Rate Swaps in Place and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Interest Rate Swaps 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed to variable $ $ $ 250 $ $ 325 $ $ 575 $ 48 Average variable rate paid 1.50 % 2.10 % 1.84 % Average fixed receive rate 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.49 % As of December 31, 2007 Aggregate Notional Amounts Associated with Interest Rate Swaps in Place and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Interest Rate Swaps 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed to variable $ $ $ $ 250 $ $ 325 $ 575 $ 10 Average variable rate paid 4.05 % 4.22 % 4.14 % Average fixed receive rate 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.49 % We also had foreign currency forward contracts which consisted of the following major currencies at December 31, 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 (In millions) Buy Sell Buy Sell British Pounds $ 382 $ 489 $ 278 $ 400 Canadian Dollars 189 27 240 61 Australian Dollars 98 8 34 6 European Euros 87 1 104 7 All other 48 32 122 4 Total $ 804 $ 557 $ 778 $ 478 Unrealized gains of $81 million were included in non current assets and unrealized losses of $107 million were included in current liabilities at December 31, 2008. For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative was reported as a component of Other comprehensive loss, net of tax. Gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. We believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 60 Table of Contents 
 
