ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Introduction Raytheon Company develops technologically advanced, integrated products, services and solutions in four core defense markets, Sensing, Effects, Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence (C3I), and Mission Support, as well as the Cybersecurity and Homeland Security markets. We serve both domestic and international customers, principally as a prime contractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for government customers. We operate in six business segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS), Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) and Technical Services (TS). For a more detailed description of our segments, see Business Segments within Item 1 of this Form 10 K. In this section, we discuss our industry and how certain factors may affect our business, key elements of our strategy, how our financial performance is assessed and measured by management, and other business considerations, including certain risks and challenges to our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting estimates, which are those estimates that are most important to both the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult or subjective judgment. We then review our results of operations for 2009, 2008 and 2007 beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by business segment. We also review our financial condition and liquidity including our capital structure and resources, off balance sheet arrangements, commitments and contingencies, and conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Industry Considerations Domestic Considerations The U.S. and global economies have been turbulent in the past year, and the U.S. budget deficits for 2009 and 2010 are expected to be at historically high levels. As a result, we expect that the Administration will have to balance ongoing critical priorities, such as defense and homeland security, with its new federal spending initiatives, such as health care reform and alternative energy development, with the need to reduce the deficit over time. In this environment, we expect defense spending growth to be somewhat slower than it has been for the previous nine years. The U.S. Government including foreign military sales accounted for 88% of our total net sales in 2009. Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). DoD funding has grown substantially since 2001. The DoD base budget, which excludes funding for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, grew from $300 billion in fiscal year (FY) 2001 to $513 billion in FY 2009, or 7% compounded annually. The FY 2010 base budget is $531 billion, an increase of $17 billion or 3% from the FY 2009 level, reflective of the still positive but slower growth rates we expect in the future. DoD modernization funding, which consists of procurement and research and development (R&D), is of particular importance to defense contractors. Modernization funding in the base budget grew at an annual rate of 7% over the FY 2001 FY 2009 period. The FY 2010 modernization level of $185 billion is 2%, or almost $4 billion, higher than the FY 2009 level. We expect the modernization growth rate to be positive, albeit lower than the recent past, going forward due to the need to replace aging inventory of planes, ships, ground combat vehicles and other necessary warfighting equipment, often referred to by DoD officials as recapitalization. The DoD Operations and Maintenance Account (O&M), which includes funding for training, services and other logistical support functions, is the other major account of importance to the defense industry. O&M in the DoD base budget grew at an annual rate of 6% over the FY 2001 FY 2009 period. The FY 2010 level of $185 billion is 3%, or $5 billion higher, than the FY 2009 level. The Administrations decision to accelerate the planned increase of active duty ground forces by 92,000 will likely increase O&M funding requirements in the near future. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) in Afghanistan and Iraq have largely been funded through emergency supplemental appropriations rather than in the base budget appropriations. The Administration has indicated it would 29 Table of Contents like to decrease future reliance on emergency supplemental appropriations, and plans to fund OCO with non emergency appropriations as much as practicable, starting in FY 2010. However, it still plans to request and account for these OCO funds separate from the base budget to maintain visibility and oversight over war costs. Thus far, $128 billion has been provided for OCO in FY 2010, but $33 billion in additional funding has been requested in an emergency supplemental appropriation to provide for the increase in troop levels for Afghanistan. This funding is expected to be approved by Congress in the late spring or summer. Looking forward, we expect the DoD base budget to increase in the near term, albeit at lower rates than in recent years. Preliminary estimates provided by the Administration indicate modest growth in the DoD base budget, and the Secretary of Defense has publicly advocated for even higher levels. In regard to funding for OCO, the cost of troop increases for Afghanistan may well outweigh any net savings from the reduced U.S. presence in Iraq in the near term. Declines in OCO funding are not likely to be significant in FY 2010, if they occur at all, and future levels of OCO funding will be closely tied to force levels in both Iraq and Afghanistan. Projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near term. We believe that the DoD budget and priorities will be affected by several factors, including the following: External threats to our national security, including potential security threats posed by terrorists, emerging nuclear states and other countries; Funding for on going operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which will require funding above and beyond the DoD base budget for their duration; Future priorities of the Administration which could result in changes in the DoD budget overall and various allocations within the DoD budget; and The overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. With respect to other parts of the U.S. Government beyond the DoD, we have contracts with a wide range of agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of Justice (DoJ), the Department of State, the Department of Energy, the Intelligence Community, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Science Foundation (NSF). Similar to the budget environment for the DoD, we expect the Administration will have to take deficit considerations into account when determining spending priorities for these agencies. Our relationship with these agencies, however, generally is determined more by specific program requirements than by a direct correlation to the overall funding levels for these agencies. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact the U.S. Governments demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. International Considerations In 2009, our sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 21% of our total net sales (including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government). Internationally, the growing threat of additional terrorist activity, emerging nuclear states and conventional military threats have led to an increase in demand for defense products and services and homeland security solutions. While recent global economic challenges have affected the defense and homeland security budgets of some countries, notably in Europe, we currently anticipate that many international defense budgets will grow faster than the U.S. defense budget. International customers are also expected to continue to adopt similar defense modernization initiatives as the U.S. DoD. We believe this trend will continue as many international customers are facing the same threat environment as the United States and they wish to assure that their forces and systems will be interoperable with U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces. However, international demand is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, as well as U.S. foreign policy. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact international demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. 30 Table of Contents Our Strategy and Opportunities The following are the broad elements of our strategy: Focus on key strategic pursuits, technology and mission assurance to expand our position in our four core defense markets: Sensing, Effects, C3I and Mission Support. Leverage our domain knowledge in these core markets to provide capability to customers in the Homeland Security and Cybersecurity markets. Expand international business by focusing on customer needs in our core and growth markets. Continue to be a Customer focused company based on performance, relationships and solutions. Our Markets We believe that our technologies, domain knowledge and key capabilities and their alignment with customer needs in our core defense markets, position us favorably to continue to grow and increase our market share. Our core markets also serve as a solid base from which to expand into growth focus areas, such as Homeland Security and Cybersecurity. We continually explore opportunities to leverage our existing capabilities, or develop or acquire additional ones, to expand into growth markets. Sensing Sensing encompasses technologies that acquire precise situational data across air, space, ground and underwater domains and then generate the information needed for effective battlespace decisions. Our sensing technologies span the full electromagnetic spectrum, from traditional radio frequency (RF) and electro optical (EO) to wideband, hyperspectral and acoustic sensors. We are focused on leveraging our sensing technologies to provide a broad range of capabilities as well as expanding into growth markets such as sensors to detect Weapons of Mass Destruction. Effects Effects technologies achieve specific military actions or outcomes, from striking targets or disabling hostile information systems to using directed energy in peacekeeping missions. We are focused on moving beyond kinetic energy weapons to provide a broader range of systems that generate desired effects on an enemy, including using the missile as a node in the network, directed energy, lethal and non lethal applications and cyber operations. Our Effects capabilities include advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high resolution sensors, targeting and netted systems. Command, Control, Communication and Intelligence (C3I) C3I systems provide integrated real time support to decision makers on and off the battlefield, transforming raw data into actionable intelligence. We are seeking to continue to grow our market presence in C3I and also expand our knowledge management and discovery capabilities. Our C3I capabilities include situational awareness, persistent surveillance, communications, mission planning, battle management command and control, intelligence and analysis, and integrated ground solutions. In 2009, we acquired BBN Technologies Corp. and related entities (BBN), which are now part of our Network Centric Systems business. Mission Support We are focused on enabling customer success through total life cycle support that predicts customer needs, senses potential problems and proactively responds with the most appropriate solutions. Our Mission Support capabilities include technical services, system engineering, logistics, training, operations and maintenance. Homeland Security We also intend to continue to grow our presence in the domestic and international homeland security markets, focusing on transportation security, immigration control/identity management, critical infrastructure protection, energy security, intelligence program support, law enforcement solutions and emergency preparedness and response. Cybersecurity We continue to enhance our capabilities in the cybersecurity market. We are focused on providing cyber capabilities to the Intelligence, DoD and DHS markets as well as embedding cybersecurity in our products and in our own IT infrastructure. International Growth Because of the breadth of our offerings, our systems integration capability and our strong legacy in the international marketplace, we believe that we are well positioned to continue to grow our international business. As discussed under International Considerations, we believe that demand is growing for solutions in air and missile defense, homeland security including border surveillance, air traffic management, precision engagement, naval systems integration and 31 Table of Contents intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. In addition, as coalition forces increasingly integrate military operations worldwide, we believe that our capabilities in network centric operations will continue to be a key discriminator among competitors in these markets. In 2009, our international sales, including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, grew to $5.3 billion from $4.6 billion in 2008. In 2009, our international bookings grew to $7,634 million from $7,564 million in 2008. Focus on the Customer and Execution Our customer focus continues to be a critical part of our strategy underpinned by a focus on performance, relationships and solutions. Performance means being able to meet customer commitments and is ensured through strong processes, metrics and oversight. We maintain a process architecture that spans our broad programs and pursuits. It consists of processes such as Integrated Product Development System (IPDS) which assures consistency of evaluation and execution at each step in a programs life cycle. It also includes our Achieving Process Excellence (APEX), which is our SAP business system software for accounting, finance and program management; Process Re Invention Integrating Systems for Manufacturing (PRISM), which is our SAP software for manufacturing operations; and Raytheon Enterprise Supplier Assessment (RESA) tool for Supply Chain Management. These processes and systems are linked to an array of front end and back end metrics. With this structure, we are able to track results and be alerted to potential issues through numerous oversight mechanisms, including operating reviews and annual operating plan reviews. We are also continuing to build strong customer relationships by listening to customers, working with them as partners and including them on Raytheon Six SigmaTM teams to jointly improve their programs and processes. We are increasingly focused on responding to our customers changing requirements with rapid and effective solutions to real problems. Other Business Considerations We currently are involved in over 15,000 contracts. Our largest contract in 2009 was for the Zumwalt Class Destroyer (DDG 1000), which accounted for less than 5% of total net sales in 2009. We believe that our diverse portfolio of programs and capabilities is well suited to a changing defense environment. However, we face numerous challenges and risks, as discussed below and under Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. We remain dependent on the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our business. Sales to the U.S. Government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget/economic considerations, changing defense requirements and political developments such as changes in Congress and the Administration. The influence of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could impact our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we operate in highly competitive markets. These markets are becoming increasingly more concentrated in response to the trend of certain customers awarding a smaller number of large multi service contracts. Additionally, the DoD and international customers are increasingly turning to commercial contractors for information technology and other support work. Our future success is dependent on our ability to execute our business strategies. First, we must continue to perform on existing programs, as past performance is an important selection criteria for new competitive awards. Second, we must successfully execute our growth strategies, as discussed above. In order to execute, we must be able to identify the most appropriate opportunities to leverage our capabilities and technologies, as well as emerging customer trends in these markets. We then must successfully develop, market and support new offerings and technologies for those markets which will require the investment of significant financial resources and substantial management attention. We also focus on significant changes in our estimates of contract sales, costs and profits, to assess program performance and the potential impact of such changes on our results of operations. As discussed in greater detail in Critical Accounting Estimates our method of accounting for our contracts requires that we estimate contract revenues and costs. Due to the size, length of time and nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, our estimates are complicated and subject to many variables. We review our contract estimates periodically to assess whether revisions are warranted and make revisions and adjustments to our estimates in the ordinary course. Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates 32 Table of Contents could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. In addition, given our number of contracts and our accounting methods, we may recognize changes in multiple contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be significant, but that result, on a net basis, in no impact on our results of operations. Alternatively, we may recognize changes in numerous contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be immaterial, but that result, collectively, in a significant change to our results of operations. FINANCIAL SUMMARY We use the following key financial performance measures to manage our business on a consolidated basis and by business segment and to monitor and assess our results of operations: Bookings a forward looking metric that measures the value of new contracts awarded to us during the year. Net Sales a growth metric that measures our revenue for the current year. Operating Income a measure of our profit from continuing operations for the year, before interest and taxes. We also focus on earnings per share (EPS), including FAS/CAS Adjusted EPS, and measures to assess our cash generation and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital such as free cash flow (FCF) and return on invested capital (ROIC). Considered together, we believe these metrics are strong indicators of our overall performance and our ability to create shareholder value. We feel these measures are balanced among long term and short term performance, growth and efficiency. We use these and other performance metrics for executive compensation purposes. In addition, we maintain a strong focus on program execution and the prudent management of capital and investments in order to maximize operating income and cash and to continue to improve ROIC. We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases. Bookings were $25.1 billion, $26.8 billion and $25.5 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively resulting in backlog of $36.9 billion, $38.9 billion and $36.6 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Backlog represents the dollar value of contracts awarded for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. We therefore discuss changes in backlog, including any significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portion of our contracts. In the second quarter of 2009, Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI), a developmental program with the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), was terminated for convenience, which resulted in a backlog adjustment of approximately $2.4 billion at MS. The program was cancelled by the MDA due to a change in missile defense priorities. Total net sales were $24.9 billion, $23.2 billion and $21.3 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating income was $3.0 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.4 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating margin, which is operating income as a percentage of total net sales, was 12.2%, 11.3% and 11.1% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in operating income was a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, described below in Critical Accounting Estimates, of $27 million of income, $123 million of expense and $259 million of expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $2.7 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.2 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. A discussion of our results follows below in Consolidated Results of Operations; Segment Results; Financial Condition and Liquidity; and Capital Resources. 33 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe the estimates set forth below may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application than our other accounting estimates and represent the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe our judgments related to these accounting estimates are appropriate. However, if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from the amounts recorded. Revenue Recognition We determine the appropriate method by which we recognize revenue by analyzing the type, terms and conditions of each contract or arrangement entered into with our customers. The significant estimates we consider in recognizing revenue for the types of revenue generating activities in which we are involved are described below. We classify contract revenues as product or service according to the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts unless the contract can clearly be split between product and service. We define service revenue as revenue from activities which are not associated with the design, development or production of tangible assets, the delivery of software code or a specific capability. Our service sales are primarily related to our TS operating segment. Percentage of Completion Accounting We account for our long term contracts associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, such as certain cost plus service contracts, using the percentage of completion accounting method. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the long term contract. The selection of the method by which to measure such progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Our analysis of these contracts also contemplates whether contracts should be combined or segmented. The combination of two or more contracts requires significant judgment in determining whether the intent of entering into the contracts was effectively to enter into a single project, which should be combined to reflect an overall profit rate. Additionally, judgment is involved in determining whether a single contract or group of contracts may be segmented based on how the contract was negotiated and the performance criteria. The decision to combine a group of contracts or segment a contract could change the amount of revenue and gross profit recorded in a given period had consideration not been given to these factors. We combine closely related contracts when all the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. Similarly, we may segment a project, which may consist of a single contract or a group of contracts, with varying rates of profitability, only if all the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. We generally use the cost to cost measure of progress for all our long term contracts unless we believe another method more clearly measures progress towards completion of the contract. Under the cost to cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the contract. Contract costs include material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. Revenues, including estimated earned fees or profits, are recorded as costs are incurred. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. Management must make various assumptions and estimates related to contract deliverables including design requirements, performance of subcontractors, cost and availability of materials, productivity and manufacturing efficiency and labor availability. Incentive and award fees are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer or upon achievement of certain program milestones or cost targets. Incentive and award fees, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in estimating profit rates. Estimates of award fees are based on actual awards and anticipated performance, which may include the performance of subcontractor or partners depending upon the individual contract requirements. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. Such incentives and penalties are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Our claims on contracts are recorded only if it is probable the claim will result in additional contract revenue and the amounts can be reliably estimated. 34 Table of Contents We have a standard quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of our significant contracts. As part of this process, management reviews include, but are not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. Based on this analysis, any adjustments to sales, costs of sales and profit are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs of sales and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period the loss is determined. Other Revenue Methods To a much lesser extent, we enter into contracts that are not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services. Revenue under such contracts is generally recognized upon delivery or as the service is performed. Revenue on contracts to sell software is recognized when evidence of an arrangement exists, the software has been delivered and accepted by the customer, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Revenue from non software license fees is recognized over the expected life of the continued involvement with the customer. Royalty revenue is recognized when earned. Revenue generated from fixed price service contracts not associated with the design, development, manufacture or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment is recognized as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, our price is fixed or determinable, and we have determined collectability is reasonably assured. We apply the separation guidance under GAAP for contracts with multiple deliverables. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables should be divided into more than one unit of accounting. For contracts with more than one unit of accounting, we recognize revenue for each deliverable based on the revenue recognition policies discussed above. Other Considerations The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost based pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). The FAR provide guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs are unallowable. In addition, we may enter into agreements with the U.S. Government that address the allowability and allocation of costs to contracts for specific matters. Certain costs incurred in the performance of our U.S. Government contracts are required to be recorded under GAAP but are not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs are deferred and primarily include a portion of our environmental expenses, asset retirement obligations, certain restructuring costs, deferred state income tax, workers compensation and certain other accruals. These costs are allocated to contracts when they are paid or otherwise agreed. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires us to make assumptions about the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. If the level of backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs are allocated to our contracts as allowed costs based upon the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). The CAS requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit costs differ from the Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) requirements under GAAP. Given the inability to match with reasonable certainty individual expense and income items between the CAS and FAS requirements to determine specific recoverability, we have not estimated the incremental FAS income or expense to be recoverable under our expected future contract activity, and therefore did not defer any FAS expense for pension and other postretirement benefit plans in 2006 2008. This resulted in $27 million of incremental income in 2009 and $123 million and $259 million of incremental expense in 2008 and 2007, respectively, reflected in our results of operations for the difference between CAS and FAS requirements for our pension plans in those years. 35 Table of Contents Pension Costs We have pension plans covering the majority of our employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. We must calculate our pension costs under both CAS and FAS requirements under GAAP. The calculations under CAS and FAS require judgment. CAS prescribes the allocation to and recovery of pension costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services and the methodology to determine such costs. GAAP outlines the methodology used to determine pension expense or income for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for pension costs and its calculation methodology differ from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use long term assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of pension cost. In addition, the cash funding requirements for our pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). ERISA funding requirements use a third and different method to determine funding requirements, which are primarily based on the years expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. The ERISA funding requirements will be replaced by the requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Under the Pension Protection Act, companies will be required to fully fund their pension plans over a seven year period. For certain defense contractors, the new funding rules become effective when the Cost Accounting Standards Pension Harmonization Rule (Harmonization Rule) goes into effect or no later than 2011. It is expected that the final Harmonization Rule will provide a framework to make more similar the CAS requirements and the ERISA requirements, as revised by the Pension Protection Act. Due to the foregoing differences in requirements and calculation methodologies, our FAS pension expense or income is not necessarily indicative of the funding requirements or amount of government recovery. We record CAS expense in the results of our business segments. Due to the differences between FAS and CAS amounts, we also present the difference between FAS and CAS expense, referred to as our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, as a separate line item in our segment results. This effectively increases or decreases the amount of total pension expense in our results of operations so such amount is equal to the FAS expense amount under GAAP. The assumptions in the calculations of our FAS expense and CAS expense, which involve significant judgment, are discussed below. FAS Expense Our long term return on plan assets (ROA) and discount rate assumptions are the key variables in determining pension expense or income and the funded status of our pension plans under GAAP. The long term ROA represents the average rate of earnings expected over the long term on the assets invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. The Company employs a building block approach in determining the long term ROA assumption. Historical markets are studied and long term relationships between equities and fixed income are assessed. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before long term capital market assumptions are determined. The long term ROA assumption is also established giving consideration to investment diversification, rebalancing and active management of the investment portfolio. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed periodically to assess reasonableness and appropriateness. The investment policy asset allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans were as follows as of December 31: Asset Category 2009 2008 U.S. equities 15% 40% 20% 55% International equities 10% 25% 15% 35% Fixed income securities 20% 45% 20% 40% Cash 0% 15% 0% 20% Real estate 2% 10% 2% 10% Other (including private equity) 2% 7% 2% 7% In 2008, we evaluated our asset allocation strategy and determined that our higher allocations of fixed income securities and cash at December 31, 2008, compared to our long term asset allocation strategy, had been driven by recent market conditions and we expected to return to our long term investment allocations once normal volatility levels returned to the market. During 2009, as market conditions normalized, we increased our investments in equities and decreased our investments in fixed income securities to be in line with our long term investment strategy. We evaluated the changes in 36 Table of Contents our actual asset allocations as well as the recent modifications to our investment policy allocation ranges and confirmed that they continue to support the long term ROA assumption. In validating the 2009 long term ROA assumption, we also reviewed our pension plan asset performance since 1986. Our average actual annual rate of return since 1986 has exceeded our estimated 8.75% assumed annual return. Based upon these analyses and our internal investing targets, we determined our long term ROA assumption for our domestic pension plans in 2009 was 8.75%, consistent with our 2008 assumption. Our domestic pension plans actual rates of return were approximately 17%, (26%) and 8% for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The difference between the actual rate of return and our long term ROA assumption is included in deferred losses as discussed below. If we significantly change our long term investment allocation or strategy, then our long term ROA assumption could change. Shortly after year end, the Companys Investment Committee modified the investment policy allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans, based upon the most recent periodic asset allocation study and in consideration of current market conditions. The resulting policy allocation ranges are 25% to 40% for U.S. equities, 15% to 30% for international equities, 25% to 40% for fixed income securities, 5% to 15% for cash and 0% to 15% for other investments (including private equity and real estate). The long term ROA assumptions for foreign pension benefit plans are based on the asset allocations and the economic environment prevailing in the locations where the pension plans reside. Foreign pension assets do not make up a significant portion of the total assets for all of our pension plans. The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate assumption is determined by using a theoretical bond portfolio model consisting of bonds AA rated or better by Moodys for which the timing and amount of cash flows approximate the estimated benefit payments of our pension plans. The discount rate assumption for our domestic pension plans at December 31, 2009 is 6.25%, down from 6.50% in 2008. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the long term ROA and the discount rate assumptions would have had the following approximate impacts on 2009 pension results: (In millions) Change in assumption used to determine net periodic benefit costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 Discount rate $ 43 Long term ROA 36 Change in assumption used to determine benefit obligations for the year ended December 31, 2009 Discount rate $ 460 CAS Expense In addition to providing the methodology for calculating pension costs, CAS also prescribes the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for pension costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. The key drivers of CAS pension expense include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans, and our long term ROA assumption. Unlike FAS, CAS requires the discount rate to be consistent with the long term ROA assumption, which changes infrequently given its long term nature. As a result, changes in bond or other interest rates generally do not impact CAS. In addition, unlike FAS, we can only allocate pension costs for a plan under CAS until such plan is fully funded as determined under CAS requirements. When the estimated future CAS pension costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our plan assets, the estimated CAS cost to be allocated to our contracts in the future increases. Other FAS and CAS Considerations On an annual basis, at December 31st, we update our estimate of future FAS and CAS pension expense based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. Other variables that can impact the pension plans funded status and FAS and CAS income or expense include demographic experience such as the expected rates of salary increase, retirement age, turnover and mortality. In addition, certain pension plans provide a lump sum form of benefit that varies based upon externally determined interest rates. Assumptions for these variables are set at the 37 Table of Contents beginning of the year, and are based on actual and projected plan experience. On a periodic basis, generally planned annually in the third quarter, we update our actuarial estimate of the unfunded projected benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS with final census data from the end of the prior year. The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows: (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 FAS expense $ (646 ) $ (524 ) $ (693 ) CAS expense 673 401 434 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment $ 27 $ (123 ) $ (259 ) As discussed above, a key driver of the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years, and are amortized under CAS over a 15 year period. In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly. In 2009, our CAS expense increased by $150 million more than our FAS expense, resulting in a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $27 million of income in 2009 versus $123 million of expense in 2008. The $272 million increase in our CAS expense was driven primarily by negative asset returns in 2008, which caused certain plans to no longer be fully funded under CAS. Our FAS expense also increased by $122 million. The primary components of the change in FAS expense included an increase of $297 million due to the lower than expected return on pension assets during 2008, partially offset by a decrease of $106 million due to the expected return on our discretionary cash contribution to our plans in 2008 as well as the expected return on the expected cash contributions in 2009. In addition, the FAS expense decreased by $47 million due to the recognition of previous historical asset returns which were greater than the expected return. In 2008 our FAS expense decreased by $169 million compared to 2007. The primary components of the change in FAS expense included a decrease of $88 million due to the recognition of previous years historical asset returns, which were greater than the expected return and a decrease of $66 million due to the expected return on our discretionary cash contributions to our plans in 2007 as well as the expected return on the expected cash contributions in 2008. For 2010, we currently expect our FAS expense will increase more than our CAS expense, which will increase the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. We expect the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to be approximately $220 million of expense driven by the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, as discussed above, of the net unrecognized liability, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns. This expected increase in FAS expense in excess of CAS expense is subject to our annual update, generally planned in the third quarter, of our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS for final 2009 census data. After 2010, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is more difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2009 and without an adjustment for the Harmonization Rule, it appears our FAS expense will continue to exceed our CAS expense until 2013 driven by the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, as discussed above, of the unfunded benefit obligation, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns. 38 Table of Contents The Plans investments are stated at fair value. Investments in equity securities (common and preferred) are valued at the last reported sales price. Investments in fixed income securities are generally valued using methods based upon market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities which are generally recognized by institutional traders. Investments in private equity funds, hedge funds and private real estate funds are estimated at fair market value which primarily utilizes net asset values reported by the investment manager. The pension investment team reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements and additional pricing information to evaluate the net asset values. For the very limited group of securities and other assets for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. In addition, we had $7.5 billion and $7.9 billion of deferred losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, composed primarily of differences between actual and expected asset returns, changes in discount rates, changes in plan provisions and differences between actual and assumed demographic experience. The $0.4 billion decrease in 2009 was driven primarily by actual asset returns which exceeded our expected return and amortization of previous deferred losses in 2009 pension expense, partially offset by the decrease in discount rate in 2009 from 2008. To the extent we continue to experience such differences between these items, our funded status and related accrued retiree benefit obligation will change. Changes to our accrued retiree benefit obligation are initially reflected as a reduction to other comprehensive income. The deferred losses are amortized and included in future pension expense over the average employee service period of approximately 11 years. Impairment of Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually on the first day of the fourth quarter and in any interim period in which circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, the loss of significant business, significant decreases in federal government appropriations or funding for our contracts, or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. No events occurred during the periods presented that indicated the existence of an impairment with respect to our goodwill related to our continuing operations. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model based on our most recent long range plan, and compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. We discount the cash flow forecasts using the weighted average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. The weighted average cost of capital is comprised of the estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publically available data for peer companies, plus an equity risk premium related to specific company risk factors, and the after tax rate of return on our debt, weighted at the relative values of our debt and equity. Preparation of forecasts for use in the long range plan and the selection of the discount rate involve significant judgments that we base primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements and general market conditions. Significant changes in these forecasts or the discount rate selected could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. The combined estimated fair value of all of our reporting units from our DCF model often results in a premium over our market capitalization, commonly referred to as a control premium. We believe our control premium is reasonable based upon historic data of premiums paid on actual transactions within our industry. When available and as appropriate, we also use comparative market multiples to corroborate our DCF model results. There was no indication of goodwill impairment as a result of our 2009 impairment analysis. The combined fair values of our reporting units exceeded the combined net book values, including goodwill, of our reporting units. Based upon our 2009 impairment analysis, the reporting unit that was closest to impairment would not have an impairment until it experienced a decrease in fair value of approximately 30% or more. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the future, it could materially affect our results of operations. 39 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Selected consolidated results were as follows: % of Total Net Sales (In millions, except percentages and per share data) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Net sales Products $ 21,761 $ 20,923 $ 19,455 87.5 % 90.3 % 91.3 % Services 3,120 2,251 1,846 12.5 % 9.7 % 8.7 % Total net sales 24,881 23,174 21,301 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses Cost of sales products 17,071 16,570 15,431 68.6 % 71.5 % 72.4 % Cost of sales services 2,676 1,919 1,580 10.8 % 8.3 % 7.4 % Administrative and selling expenses 1,527 1,548 1,434 6.1 % 6.7 % 6.7 % Research and development expenses 565 517 502 2.3 % 2.2 % 2.4 % Total operating expenses 21,839 20,554 18,947 87.8 % 88.7 % 88.9 % Operating income 3,042 2,620 2,354 12.2 % 11.3 % 11.1 % Non operating expense, net Interest expense 123 129 196 0.5 % 0.6 % 0.9 % Interest income (14 ) (64 ) (163 ) (0.1 )% (0.3 )% (0.8 )% Other expense, net 3 33 70 % 0.1 % 0.3 % Non operating expense, net 112 98 103 0.5 % 0.4 % 0.5 % Federal and foreign income taxes 953 824 532 3.8 % 3.6 % 2.5 % Income from continuing operations 1,977 1,698 1,719 7.9 % 7.3 % 8.1 % (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax (1 ) (2 ) 885 % % 4.2 % Net income 1,976 1,696 2,604 7.9 % 7.3 % 12.2 % Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 41 24 26 0.2 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Net income attributable to Raytheon Company 1,935 1,672 2,578 7.8 % 7.2 % 12.1 % Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders $ 4.89 $ 3.93 $ 3.78 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders (0.01 ) 1.97 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders 4.89 3.92 5.75 Total Net Sales The increase in total net sales of $1,707 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to higher external net sales of $550 million at TS, $413 million at IDS, $286 million at SAS and $210 million at NCS. The increase in external net sales at TS was primarily due to higher volume on training programs, principally operational training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter Field Operations Customer Support (FOCUS) activities as discussed below in TS segment results. The increase in IDS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on Patriot programs as discussed below in IDS segment results. The increase in SAS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on certain classified business and international airborne tactical radar programs as discussed below in SAS segment results. The increase in external net sales at NCS was primarily due to higher volume across various production programs, primarily certain U.S. Army programs as discussed below in NCS segment results. The increase in product net sales of $838 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the higher external net sales at IDS, SAS and NCS. The increase in service net sales of $869 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the higher external net sales at TS. The increase in total net sales of $1,873 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher external net sales of $398 million at IDS, $398 million at MS, $396 million at IIS, $385 million at NCS and $358 million at TS. The increase in IDS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on two joint battlefield sensor programs, a U.S. Navy combat systems program and various Patriot programs as discussed below in IDS segment results. The increase in MS 40 Table of Contents external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on the Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missile (AMRAAM), Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM), Phalanx, Paveway TM and Tube launched Optically guided Wire controlled missile (TOW) programs as discussed below in MS segment results. The increase in IIS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on an international advanced border control and security program and a competitive design program for the U.S. Air Forces next generation global positioning ground system as discussed below in IIS segment results. The increase in NCS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on certain U.S. Army programs as discussed below in NCS segment results. The increase in TS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on training programs, principally the Warfighter FOCUS activities, as discussed below in TS segment results. The increase in product net sales of $1,468 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the higher external net sales at MS, IIS, NCS and IDS. The increase in service net sales of $405 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the higher external net sales at TS. Sales to the U.S. DoD were 84%, 83% and 81% of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total sales to the U.S. Government were 88%, 87% and 86% of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Included in U.S. Government sales and U.S. DoD sales were foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $2.8 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.5 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We currently expect defense market trends to continue to positively impact our sales in 2010. However, as discussed above in Industry Considerations, projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near term due to numerous factors, such as U.S. Government budget appropriation decisions and geo political events and macroeconomic conditions, which are beyond our control. Total international sales, including foreign military sales, were $5.3 billion or 21% of total net sales, $4.6 billion or 20% of total net sales and $4.2 billion or 20% of sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total classified sales were 13%, 12% and 13% of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cost of Sales The increase in cost of sales of $1,258 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $1,408 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are discussed above in Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below, offset by lower expense of $150 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment discussed below. The increase in cost of product sales of $501 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to increased costs at IDS, SAS and MS, the primary drivers of which are discussed above in Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below. The increase in cost of service sales of $757 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to increased costs at TS, the primary drivers of which are discussed below in TS segment results. The increase in cost of sales of $1,478 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to $1,614 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are discussed above in Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below, offset by lower expense of $136 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment discussed below. The increase in cost of product sales of $1,139 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to increased costs at IIS, MS, NCS and IDS, the primary drivers of which are discussed above in Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below. The increase in cost of service sales of $339 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to increased costs at TS, the primary drivers of which are discussed below in TS segment results. The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment was $27 million of income, $123 million of expense and $259 million of expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, which we report as a separate line item in our segment results, represents the difference between our pension expense or income under FAS in accordance with GAAP and our pension expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. For more information on the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, see our discussion below in Segment Results. Administrative and Selling Expenses The decrease in administrative and selling expenses of $21 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower state tax payments driven by the utilization of overpayment credits from 2008. Administrative and selling expenses remained consistent as a percent of total net sales in 2008 compared to 2007. The provision for state income taxes can generally be recovered through the pricing of products and services to the U.S. Government. Net state income taxes allocated to our contracts were $25 million, $122 million and $81 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 41 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percent of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Total Operating Expenses The increase in total operating expenses of $1,285 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $1,435 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are discussed above in our discussion of Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below, offset by lower expense of $150 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. The increase in total operating expenses of $1,607 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to $1,743 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are discussed above in our discussion of Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below, offset by lower expense of $136 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. Operating Income The increase in operating income of $422 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower expense of $150 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment and increased volume, which had an impact of approximately $150 million and $69 million due to the increase in estimated future CAS pension costs at December 31, 2008 as discussed below in Segment Results. The increase in operating income of $266 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to increased volume, which had an impact of approximately $175 million, and lower expense of $136 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, partially offset by $69 million due to the increase in estimated future CAS pension costs at December 31, 2008 as discussed below in Segment Results. For a discussion of the drivers of individual business operating income and related margin, see Segment Results below. Non Operating Expense, Net The increase in non operating expense, net of $14 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the decrease in interest income of $50 million which was principally due to a decrease in interest rates driven by a shift in our strategy to invest more of our cash in U.S. Treasury bills, partially offset by and a decrease of $30 million in other expense, net. The decrease in other expense, net was primarily due to a $58 million favorable year over year change in the fair value of investments held in rabbi trusts associated with certain of our non qualified deferred compensation plans due to gains of $28 million in 2009 compared to losses of $30 million in 2008, partially offset by a $22 million pretax loss on the early repurchase of long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2009. The decrease in non operating expense of $5 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the decrease in interest expense of $67 million in 2008 compared to 2007 due to the decrease in average debt outstanding and the decrease of $37 million in other expense, net in 2008 compared to 2007 which was primarily due to a $59 million loss on the early repurchase of long term debt in 2007, partially offset by a $36 million unfavorable year over year change in the fair value of investments held in rabbi trusts associated with certain of our non qualified deferred compensation plans due to losses of $30 million in 2008 compared to gains of $6 million in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by the decrease in interest income of $99 million in 2008 compared to 2007 which was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. Federal and Foreign Income Taxes Our effective tax rate, which is used to determine federal and foreign income tax expense, differs from the U.S. statutory rate due to the following: 2009 2008 2007 Statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Tax settlements and refund claims 0.9 0.5 9.9 Other items, net 1.6 1.8 1.5 Effective tax rate 32.5 % 32.7 % 23.6 % The effective tax rate reflects the U.S. statutory rate adjusted for various permanent differences between book and tax reporting. The effective tax rate in 2009 was 0.2% lower than 2008 primarily due to increased manufacturing tax benefits and certain refund claims, partially offset by various non deductible expenses. The effective tax rate in 2008 was 9.1% higher than 2007 primarily due to the $219 million favorable impact related to the resolution of a federal research credit 42 Table of Contents refund claim for the 1984 1990 years and certain export tax benefit claims, which reduced the effective rate by 9.9% in 2007. The effective tax rate in 2009 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to various permanent differences between book and tax reporting, including manufacturing tax benefits, tax benefits related to certain refund claims, including $26 million of benefits primarily related to certain U.S. and foreign research tax incentives and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) dividend deductions, partially offset by various non deductible expenses. The effective tax rate in 2008 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to manufacturing tax benefits, ESOP dividend deductions and tax benefits related to certain refund claims, including $13 million of benefits primarily related to a foreign research incentive refund claim, partially offset by various non deductible expenses. The effective tax rate in 2007 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to the $219 million favorable impact related to the resolution of a federal research credit refund claim for the 1984 1990 years and certain export tax benefit claims, manufacturing tax benefits, ESOP dividend deductions and the research and development tax credit, partially offset by various non deductible expenses. The increase in federal and foreign income taxes of $129 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to our higher income from continuing operations before taxes. The increase in federal and foreign income taxes of $292 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the $219 million of tax related benefits discussed above. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations was $1,977 million, $1,698 million and $1,719 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in income from continuing operations of $279 million in 2009 compared to 2008, as discussed in detail above, was primarily attributed to a $422 million increase in operating income, partially offset by a $129 million increase in federal and foreign income taxes. The decrease in income from continuing operations of $21 million in 2008 compared to 2007, as discussed in detail above, was primarily attributed to the $292 million increase in federal and foreign income taxes, partially offset by a $266 million increase in operating income. (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations, net of tax (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax, described below in Discontinued Operations, was $1 million of loss in 2009, $2 million of loss in 2008 and $885 million of income in 2007. Included in (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax in 2007 was a $986 million gain on the sale of Raytheon Aircraft, which was completed in 2007. Net Income Net income was $1,976 million, $1,696 million and $2,604 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in net income of $280 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations as discussed above. The decrease in net income of $908 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the $986 million gain on the sale of Raytheon Aircraft in 2007, as discussed above. Net Income Attributable to Raytheon Company Net income attributable to Raytheon Company was $1,935 million, $1,672 million and $2,578 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in net income attributable to Raytheon Company of $263 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations as discussed above. The decrease in net income attributable to Raytheon Company of $906 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the $986 million gain on the sale of Raytheon Aircraft in 2007, as discussed above. Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was $4.89 per diluted share on 395.7 million average shares outstanding in 2009, $3.93 per diluted share on 426.5 million average shares outstanding in 2008 and $3.78 per diluted share on 448.4 million average shares outstanding in 2007. The increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.96 in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations. The increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common 43 Table of Contents stockholders of $0.15 in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in average diluted shares outstanding. The decrease in average diluted shares outstanding in 2008 and 2009 was primarily due to the repurchase of 25.8 million and 30.7 million shares in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders had no impact per diluted share in 2009, was $(0.01) per diluted share in 2008 and $1.97 per diluted share in 2007. The decrease in diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $1.98 in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the $986 million gain on the sale of Raytheon Aircraft in 2007. Diluted Earnings per Share Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders Diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was $4.89 per diluted share in 2009, $3.92 per diluted share in 2008 and $5.75 per diluted share in 2007. The increase in diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.97 in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the increase in net income. The decrease in diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $1.83 in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the $986 million gain on the sale of Raytheon Aircraft in 2007. FAS/CAS Adjusted EPS FAS/CAS Adjusted EPS is defined as diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders excluding the earnings per share impact of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. FAS/CAS Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders is defined as income from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders excluding the after tax impact of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment at the federal statutory rate of 35.0%. We are providing this measure, which excludes the impact of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, because management uses it for the purpose of evaluating and forecasting the Companys financial performance and we believe it allows investors to benefit from being able to assess our operating performance in the context of how our principal customer, the U.S. Government, allows us to recover pension costs and to better compare our operating performance to others in the industry on that same basis. FAS/CAS Adjusted EPS is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for financial performance in accordance with GAAP. FAS/CAS Adjusted EPS may not be defined and calculated in the same manner. FAS/CAS Adjusted EPS was as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders $ 4.89 $ 3.93 $ 3.78 Less: Earnings per share impact of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment 0.04 (0.19 ) (0.37 ) FAS/CAS Adjusted EPS $ 4.85 $ 4.12 $ 4.15 SEGMENT RESULTS We report our results in the following segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS), Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) and Technical Services (TS). The following provides some context for viewing the performance of our segments through the eyes of management. Given the nature of our business, bookings, net sales and operating income (including operating margin percentage), which we disclose and discuss at the segment level, are most relevant to an understanding of managements view of our segment performance, and often these measures have significant interrelated effects as discussed below. In addition, we disclose and discuss backlog, which represents future sales that we expect to recognize over the contract period, which is generally the next several years. Bookings: We disclose the amount of bookings for each segment and notable contract awards. Bookings generally represent the dollar value of new contracts awarded to us during the reporting period and include firm orders for which 44 Table of Contents funding has not been appropriated. We believe bookings are an important measure of future performance and are an indicator of potential future changes in net sales since we cannot record revenues under a new contract without first having a booking in the current or preceding period (i.e., a contract award). Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses: We generally express changes in net sales in terms of volume. Volume generally refers to increases or decreases in revenues related to varying amounts of total operating expenses, which are comprised of cost of sales, administrative and selling expense and research and development expense, incurred on individual contracts (i.e., from performance against contractual commitments on our bookings related to engineering, production or service activity). Therefore, we discuss volume changes attributable principally to individual programs unless there is a discrete event (e.g., a major contract termination, natural disaster or major labor strike, etc.), or some other unusual item that has a material effect on changes in a segments volume for a reported period. Due to the nature of our contracts, the amount of costs incurred and related revenues will naturally fluctuate over the life of the contracts. As a result, in any reporting period, the changes in volume on numerous contracts are likely to be due to normal fluctuations in our production activity or service levels. Operating Income (and the related operating margin percentage): We generally express changes in segment operating income in terms of volume, changes in program performance or changes in contract mix. Changes in volume discussed in net sales typically drive corresponding changes in our operating income based on the profit rate for a particular contract. Changes in program performance typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion that reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. Changes in contract mix refer to changes in operating margin due to a change in the relative volume of contracts with higher or lower fee rates such that the overall average margin rate for the segment changes. Because each segment has thousands of contracts, in any reporting period, changes in operating income and margin are likely to be due to normal changes in volume, program performance and mix on many contracts with no single change or series of related changes materially driving a segments change in operating income or operating margin percentage. Backlog: We disclose period ending backlog for each segment. Backlog represents the dollar value of contracts awarded for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. We therefore discuss changes in backlog, including any significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portion of our contracts. Segment financial results were as follows: Total Net Sales (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Integrated Defense Systems $ 5,525 $ 5,148 $ 4,695 Intelligence and Information Systems 3,204 3,132 2,742 Missile Systems 5,561 5,408 5,026 Network Centric Systems 4,822 4,510 4,164 Space and Airborne Systems 4,582 4,280 4,202 Technical Services 3,161 2,601 2,174 Corporate and Eliminations (1,974 ) (1,905 ) (1,702 ) Total $ 24,881 $ 23,174 $ 21,301 Operating Income (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Integrated Defense Systems $ 859 $ 870 $ 828 Intelligence and Information Systems 259 253 248 Missile Systems 604 584 543 Network Centric Systems 674 575 532 Space and Airborne Systems 647 569 556 Technical Services 215 174 139 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment 27 (123 ) (259 ) Corporate and Eliminations (243 ) (282 ) (233 ) Total $ 3,042 $ 2,620 $ 2,354 45 Table of Contents Bookings (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Integrated Defense Systems $ 5,969 $ 5,933 $ 6,066 Intelligence and Information Systems 2,529 3,204 4,900 Missile Systems 5,548 6,043 4,954 Network Centric Systems 3,933 4,938 3,904 Space and Airborne Systems 4,446 3,927 3,968 Technical Services 2,633 2,753 1,610 Corporate 22 96 Total $ 25,058 $ 26,820 $ 25,498 Included in bookings were international bookings of $7,634 million, $7,564 million and $6,687 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which included foreign military bookings through the U.S. Government. International bookings amounted to 30%, 28% and 26% of total bookings in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Classified bookings were 14%, 13% and 10% of total bookings in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We record bookings for not to exceed contract awards based on a reasonable estimate of expected contract definitization, which will generally not be less than 75% of the award. We subsequently adjust bookings to reflect the actual amounts definitized, or, when prior to definitization, when facts and circumstances indicate our previous estimate is no longer reasonable. The timing of awards that may cover multiple fiscal years influences bookings in each year. Bookings exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (i.e., indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) type contracts), and are reduced for contract cancellations and terminations of bookings recognized in the current year. We reflect contract cancellations and terminations from prior year bookings, as well as the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, directly as an adjustment to backlog in the period in which the cancellation or termination occurs. Funded Backlog Total Backlog Backlog at December 31 (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Integrated Defense Systems $ 5,595 $ 4,802 $ 4,781 $ 10,665 $ 9,883 $ 9,296 Intelligence and Information Systems 1,588 1,890 2,325 4,360 5,137 5,636 Missile Systems 6,454 6,082 5,295 7,657 9,937 9,456 Network Centric Systems 4,389 4,593 3,957 5,501 5,733 5,102 Space and Airborne Systems 3,402 2,731 2,960 5,921 5,442 5,199 Technical Services 2,051 1,888 1,200 2,773 2,752 1,925 Total $ 23,479 $ 21,986 $ 20,518 $ 36,877 $ 38,884 $ 36,614 Total backlog includes both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated and or contractually obligated by the customer). Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g., IDIQ). Both funded and unfunded backlog are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. In the second quarter of 2009, KEI, a developmental program with the MDA, was terminated for convenience, which resulted in a backlog adjustment of approximately $2.4 billion at MS. The program was cancelled by the MDA due to a change in missile defense priorities. 46 Table of Contents Integrated Defense Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2009 2008 2007 2009comparedto 2008 2008comparedto 2007 Total Net Sales $ 5,525 $ 5,148 $ 4,695 7.3 % 9.6 % Total Operating Expenses 4,666 4,278 3,867 9.1 % 10.6 % Operating Income 859 870 828 1.3 % 5.1 % Operating Margin 15.5 % 16.9 % 17.6 % Bookings $ 5,969 $ 5,933 $ 6,066 0.6 % 2.2 % Total Backlog 10,665 9,883 9,296 7.9 % 6.3 % IDS is a leader in global capabilities integration, providing affordable, integrated solutions to a broad international and domestic customer base. IDS leverages its core domain knowledge and capabilities in sensors, command, control and communication (C3) effects and mission support, to provide integrated naval, air and missile defense and civil security response solutions. Key domestic customers include the U.S. Navy, Army and Air Force, and the MDA. Key international customers include Japan, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Taiwan, Australia, Germany, Korea and Finland. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $377 million in 2009 was primarily due to $660 million of higher net sales on Patriot programs, principally from higher volume. The increase in net sales on Patriot programs was primarily due to $595 million of higher net sales on an international Patriot program awarded in the fourth quarter of 2008, driven by scheduled design effort, partially offset by $266 million of lower net sales on various U.S. Navy programs, driven principally by lower volume. The lower U.S. Navy net sales was due to scheduled completion of design and production efforts on numerous programs, including $129 million from the completion of certain design phases on a U.S. Navy combat systems program. The increase in operating expenses of $388 million in 2009 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. The increase in net sales in 2008 of $453 million was primarily due to $199 million of higher net sales on two joint battlefield sensor programs, principally from higher volume, driven by scheduled increases in design efforts and increased production associated with orders received in 2008, $119 million of higher net sales on a U.S. Navy combat systems program due to scheduled increased effort on certain design phases and $73 million of higher net sales on various Patriot programs. The increase in net sales on various Patriot programs was principally due to increased production on an air and missile defense equipment modernization program for the U.S. Army from awards received in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in operating expenses of $411 million in 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. Operating Income and Margin The decrease in operating income of $11 million in 2009 was primarily due to a change in contract mix driven by the completion of certain international air and missile defense programs in 2008, which had an $81 million impact on operating income, partially offset by increased volume, which had a $47 million impact on operating income and $25 million from improved program performance across various programs. IDS operating income also benefited from $14 million of sales of certain licensed software in 2009 compared to $28 million in 2008. The decline in operating margin in 2009 was primarily due to the change in contract mix. The increase in operating income of $42 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, which had a $45 million impact on operating income and improved program performance across numerous programs, which had an $18 million impact on operating income. IDS operating income also benefited from $28 million of sales of certain licensed software in 2008 compared to $14 million in 2007. These increases were partially offset by a change in contract mix driven primarily by the completion of certain international air and missile defense programs, which had a $51 million impact on operating income. The decline in operating margin was primarily due to this change in contract mix. Backlog and Bookings The increase in backlog of $782 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to the 2009 bookings discussed below. The increase in backlog of $587 million at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 was primarily due to the 2008 bookings discussed below. 47 Table of Contents Bookings in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. During 2009, IDS booked $3.2 billion to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for several domestic and international customers, including the U.S. Army, Taiwan and UAE. IDS also booked $650 million on the Zumwalt class destroyer program (DDG 1000), $157 million to provide Finland with Surface Launched Medium Range Air to Air Missile (SL AMRAAM) systems and $150 million for Joint Land Attack Cruise Missile Defense Elevated Netted Sensor Systems (JLENS) for the U.S. Army. Bookings in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007. In 2008, IDS booked $2.5 billion to provide the Patriot Air & Missile System to the UAE and $533 million on certain contracts for the design, development and support of the Patriot System for other international customers, including $288 million for South Korea, $140 million for Kuwait and $105 million for Taiwan. IDS also booked $237 million to provide engineering services support for Patriot air and missile defense programs, $229 million for the Rapid Aerostat Initial Deployment (RAID) program, both for the U.S. Army and $166 million for the production of torpedo kits for the U.S. Navy. In 2007, IDS booked $1.3 billion for the Air Warfare Destroyer (AWD) program and $1.3 billion for DDG 1000. IDS also booked $915 million for certain Patriot programs, including an international technical support program, an engineering services support program, the Patriot Pure Fleet program and a Guidance Enhanced Missile Tactical (GEM T) upgrade program. Additionally, IDS booked $298 million on the Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS) program, $195 million on the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) radar program, $118 million for the SPY 1 radar on the AEGIS program and $113 million on the Cobra Judy Replacement Mission Equipment (CJRME) program. Intelligence and Information Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2009 2008 2007 2009comparedto 2008 2008comparedto 2007 Total Net Sales $ 3,204 $ 3,132 $ 2,742 2.3 % 14.2 % Total Operating Expenses 2,945 2,879 2,494 2.3 % 15.4 % Operating Income 259 253 248 2.4 % 2.0 % Operating Margin 8.1 % 8.1 % 9.0 % Bookings $ 2,529 $ 3,204 $ 4,900 21.1 % 34.6 % Total Backlog 4,360 5,137 5,636 15.1 % 8.9 % IIS is a leading provider of intelligence and information solutions specializing in ground processing, unmanned ground systems, cybersecurity solutions, homeland/civil security and other markets to resolve the most complex problems for its customers worldwide. Approximately half of its business is for classified customers. Other key customers include the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD agencies, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA), and the United Kingdom Home Office. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $72 million in 2009 was primarily due to $114 million of higher net sales on three major classified programs and $29 million of higher net sales on a U.S. Air Force program, principally from higher volume driven by additional task orders from expanded customer scope, partially offset by $98 million of lower net sales on an international advanced border control and security program, principally from lower volume as subcontractor work related to the initial development phase was completed in June 2009. The increase in operating expenses of $66 million in 2009 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. The increase in net sales in 2008 of $390 million was primarily due to $211 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume on an international advanced border control and security program awarded in the fourth quarter of 2007, principally from subcontractor work related to the initial development phase and $98 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume on a competitive design program for the U.S. Air Forces next generation global positioning ground system awarded in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in operating expenses of $385 million in 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $6 million in 2009 was primarily due to lower cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments, which had a $12 million impact on operating income. Operating 48 Table of Contents margin in 2009 remained consistent with 2008. IIS operating margin was reduced by approximately 50 basis points in 2009 and approximately 90 basis points in 2008 by certain cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments. The increase in operating income of $5 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, which had a $33 million impact on operating income, partially offset by higher cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments, which had a $22 million impact on operating income. The decline in operating margin in 2008 was primarily due to the cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments noted above, which reduced operating margin by approximately 90 basis points in 2008 and approximately 20 basis points in 2007. Backlog and Bookings The decrease in backlog of $777 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to lower 2009 bookings as discussed below. The decrease in backlog of $499 million at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 was primarily due to large bookings in 2007 discussed below. The decrease in bookings of $675 million in 2009 was primarily due to $426 million of lower classified bookings and $154 million of lower bookings on the U.K. e Borders contract. In 2009, IIS booked $1,364 million on a number of classified contracts compared to $1,790 million in 2008. Bookings in 2009 included $148 million and $123 million on two major classified programs and $158 million on a contract to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) to the U.S. Air Force. The decrease in bookings of $1.7 billion in 2008 was primarily due to $1.2 billion of lower bookings on the U.K. e Borders contract in 2008 compared to 2007 and the $781 million award for the National Polar orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) program in 2007, partially offset by higher classified bookings in 2008 as described below. In 2008, IIS booked $1.8 billion on a number of classified contracts, including $379 million and $271 million on two major classified programs. In 2007, IIS booked $1.4 billion for the U.K. e Borders contract, $1.4 billion on a number of classified contracts, including $324 million and $178 million on two major classified programs; $781 million on the NPOESS program and $101 million for the U.S. Air Forces Consolidated Field Service contract to provide global intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support. Missile Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2009 2008 2007 2009comparedto 2008 2008comparedto 2007 Total Net Sales $ 5,561 $ 5,408 $ 5,026 2.8 % 7.6 % Total Operating Expenses 4,957 4,824 4,483 2.8 % 7.6 % Operating Income 604 584 543 3.4 % 7.6 % Operating Margin 10.9 % 10.8 % 10.8 % Bookings $ 5,548 $ 6,043 $ 4,954 8.2 % 22.0 % Total Backlog 7,657 9,937 9,456 22.9 % 5.1 % MS is a premier developer and producer of missile systems for the armed forces of the U.S. and other allied nations. Leveraging its key capabilities in advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high resolution sensors, targeting and netted systems, MS develops and supports a broad range of cutting edge weapon systems, including missiles, smart munitions, close in weapons systems, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles and directed energy effectors. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force and Marine Corps, the MDA and the armed forces of more than 40 allied nations. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $153 million in 2009 was primarily due to $76 million of higher net sales on the Standard Missile 3 program, principally from increased volume due to higher subcontractor effort related to program deliveries along with increased development efforts, $60 million of higher net sales on the Maverick Missile program due primarily to material costs resulting from international orders received in 2009, and $57 million of higher net sales related to development effort on a competitive missile program. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $71 million in lower sales on the KEI program that was terminated for convenience in the second quarter of 2009, as discussed above. The increase in operating expenses of $133 million in 2009 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. 49 Table of Contents The increase in net sales of $382 million in 2008 was primarily due to $362 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume, on a number of programs, including: $82 million on the AMRAAM program, which experienced higher build rates on a large international order per the contractual schedule; $82 million on the RAM program, driven by increased production on a direct foreign sale award received in the first half of 2007 and development work on the Block II version of the missile; $72 million from higher production rates on the Phalanx program, per customer schedule requirements; $64 million on the PavewayTM program, driven by increased production on international orders received in the second half of 2007; and $62 million on the TOW program, which experienced higher production build rates due to awards received in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in operating expenses of $341 million in 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $20 million in 2009 was primarily due to higher volume, which had a $12 million impact on operating income. Included in operating income for 2009 was improved program performance of $26 million on the Phalanx program primarily as a result of the implementation of value engineering change proposals (VECP), which reduced production costs, primarily from material and labor efficiencies. MS operating income in 2008 included $25 million from higher award fees recognized on the Standard Missile 3 program driven by a successful flight test milestone. Operating margin in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. The increase in operating income of $41 million in 2008 was primarily due to higher volume, which had a $33 million impact on operating income. Operating margin in 2008 remained consistent with 2007. Backlog and Bookings The decrease in backlog of $2,280 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to the termination for convenience of the KEI program. The increase in backlog of $481 million at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 was primarily due to 2008 awards for the production of Standard Missile 3 described below. The decrease in bookings of $495 million in 2009 was primarily due to $318 million of awards for Standard Missile 3 for the U.S. Navy and the MDA in 2009 compared to $1.2 billion in 2008. In 2009, MS booked $645 million for AMRAAM systems for international customers and the U.S. Air Force, $514 million for Tube Launched, Optically Tracked, Wireless missiles for international customers and the U.S. Army, $508 million for Evolved Sea Sparrow Missiles (ESSM) for international customers and the U.S. Navy and $402 million for Phalanx Weapon Systems. MS also booked $384 million on SM 2 for international customers and the U.S. Navy, $318 million for Standard Missile 3 for the MDA and $294 million for Tactical Tomahawk cruise missiles for the U.S. Navy. The increase in bookings of $1.1 billion in 2008 was primarily due to awards for the production of Standard Missile 3 for the U.S. Navy and the MDA. In 2008, MS booked $1.2 billion for the production of Standard Missile 3 for the U.S. Navy and the MDA, $624 million for the production of the AMRAAM program for international customers and the U.S. Air Force, $577 million on Standard Missile Development and Production, and $478 million for the production of Tactical Tomahawk cruise missiles for the U.S. Navy. In 2007, MS booked $691 million on Standard Missile Development and Production, $283 million for the TOW missiles, $247 million for ESSM Production, a $253 million Tactical Tomahawk award, $237 million for Phalanx Weapons Systems for the U.S. Navy and Army, $232 million for the design and development of the Mid Range Munition system, $145 million for the production of Enhanced Paveway for an international customer, and $111 million for the production of Javelin for the U.S. Army and Marine Corps. 50 Table of Contents Network Centric Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2009 2008 2007 2009comparedto 2008 2008comparedto 2007 Total Net Sales $ 4,822 $ 4,510 $ 4,164 6.9 % 8.3 % Total Operating Expenses 4,148 3,935 3,632 5.4 % 8.3 % Operating Income 674 575 532 17.2 % 8.1 % Operating Margin 14.0 % 12.7 % 12.8 % Bookings $ 3,933 $ 4,938 $ 3,904 20.4 % 26.5 % Total Backlog 5,501 5,733 5,102 4.0 % 12.4 % NCS is a leading provider of net centric mission solutions for government and civil customers. NCS leverages its capabilities in networking, command and control, and communications to develop and produce solutions for customers including the U.S. Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps and other government customers, as well as numerous international customers. On October 26, 2009, NCS acquired BBN, a strategic research partner with the DoD and a provider of critical solutions for national defense and security missions. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $312 million in 2009 was primarily due to $261 million of higher net sales across various production programs, primarily certain U.S. Army programs, principally from higher volume driven by increases in production to meet program delivery schedule requirements, as anticipated, as well as $112 million of higher intersegment sales related to precision mechanical products and related design engineering. The increase in net sales was also due to $53 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume on a precision approach and landing program for the U.S. Navy awarded in the third quarter of 2008 and $41 million of higher net sales related to BBN. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $144 million of lower net sales, principally from lower volume on a U.S. Army communications program that substantially completed production efforts on the initial contract, as planned, in the third quarter of 2008. The increase in operating expenses of $213 million in 2009 was driven primarily by the activity described above. The increase in net sales of $346 million in 2008 was primarily due to $374 million of higher net sales on certain U.S. Army programs, principally from higher volume, as anticipated, driven by increases in production to meet program delivery schedule requirements, including $89 million on an integrated ground combat surveillance program, $88 million on a communications program and $68 million on a long range multi sensor system program. The increase in operating expenses of $303 million in 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $99 million in 2009 was primarily due to improved program performance on a broad range of programs of $76 million and higher volume, which had an $18 million impact on operating income. Of the $76 million in improved program performance, $29 million is attributable to the production programs discussed above, driven by lower estimated labor and material costs at completion from achieved production efficiencies. These production efficiencies were the result of increased production volume across these programs which allowed us to leverage existing capacity, incur lower production labor hours and experience improved yields. The remaining improved program performance included overhead cost improvement initiatives and other program performance that was spread across numerous contracts with no other individual or common significant driver. The improvement in operating margin in 2009 was primarily due to the improved program performance. The increase in operating income of $43 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, principally on certain U.S. Army programs, which had a $38 million impact on operating income. Operating margin in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007. Backlog and Bookings The decrease in backlog of $232 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to lower bookings in 2009. Backlog at December 31, 2009 includes $300 million related to BBN. The increase in backlog of $631 million at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 was primarily due to an increase in U.S. Army awards in 2008. 51 Table of Contents The decrease in bookings of $1,005 million in 2009 was primarily due to awards for Horizontal Technology Integration (HTI) forward looking infrared kits, the Long Range Advanced Scout Surveillance Systems (LRAS3), the Joint Precision Approach and Landing System (JPALS) contract and other programs in 2008 as discussed below. In 2009, NCS booked $446 million on an international classified program, $163 million for Improved Target Acquisition Systems (ITAS), $146 million for HTI forward looking infrared kits, $127 million for a toll system replacement program, $117 million for Commanders Independent Viewers (CIV) and $107 million for the Secure Mobile Anti Jam Reliable Tactical Terminal (SMART T) program. The increase in bookings of $1.0 billion in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in U.S. Army awards in 2008. In 2008, NCS booked $570 million to provide HTI forward looking infrared kits and $279 million for the LRAS3 contract for the U.S. Army. NCS also booked $233 million for the design and development phase of JPALS for the U.S. Navy, $231 million for the production of ITAS for the U.S. Army and Marine Corps and $115 million for the Airborne, Maritime and Fixed Site (AMF) Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) program. In 2007, NCS booked $725 million on various U.S. Army programs including the LRAS3 program, the Firefinder locating radar program, SATCOM on the move systems to the U.S. Army for use on the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle, and the HTI program. NCS also booked $159 million for development work on the U.S. Navy Multiband Terminal (NMT) contract and $121 million on the CIV program. Space and Airborne Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2009 2008 2007 2009comparedto 2008 2008comparedto 2007 Total Net Sales $ 4,582 $ 4,280 $ 4,202 7.1 % 1.9 % Total Operating Expenses 3,935 3,711 3,646 6.0 % 1.8 % Operating Income 647 569 556 13.7 % 2.3 % Operating Margin 14.1 % 13.3 % 13.2 % Bookings $ 4,446 $ 3,927 $ 3,968 13.2 % 1.0 % Total Backlog 5,921 5,442 5,199 8.8 % 4.7 % SAS is a leader in the design and development of integrated systems and solutions for advanced missions, including traditional and non traditional intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), precision engagement, unmanned aerial operations and space. Leveraging advanced concepts, state of the art technologies and mission systems knowledge, SAS provides electro optical/infrared sensors, airborne radars for surveillance and fire control applications, lasers, precision guidance systems, processors, electronic warfare systems and space qualified systems for civilian and military applications. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army, as well as classified and international customers. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $302 million in 2009 was primarily due to $212 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume as work increased on certain classified business awarded in the second half of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, $100 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume on international airborne tactical radar programs driven by increased production efforts as planned to meet the program delivery schedule, $93 million of higher net sales, principally on a multi spectral targeting system program driven by increased production efforts as planned to meet the program schedule. The increase in operating expenses of $224 million in 2009 was primarily driven by the activity described above. The increase in net sales of $78 million in 2008 was primarily due to $229 million of higher net sales on certain sensor programs, principally from higher volume, including $50 million on a U.S. Navy sensor program driven by contractual schedule requirements, $46 million on multispectral targeting sensor programs driven by increased production to meet program delivery schedule requirements and $39 million on a space based environmental research sensor program per the contractual schedule, partially offset by an $88 million decrease in volume on a classified program and a $49 million decrease on an international advanced countermeasures program as it completed planned efforts for flight test acceptance requirements. The increase in operating expenses of $65 million in 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. 52 Table of Contents Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $78 million in 2009 was primarily due to a change in mix from higher volume on the international tactical radar programs discussed above, which had a $43 million impact on operating income, increased volume, which had a $30 million impact on operating income, and $19 million from the favorable settlement of affirmative claims related to contract scope on two fixed price programs and the resolution of a contract termination claim. The improvement in operating margin in 2009 was primarily due to the change in mix and favorable settlement of the affirmative claims and resolution of the contract termination claim. The increase in operating income of $13 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, which had a $7 million impact on operating income. Operating margin in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007. Backlog and Bookings The increase in backlog of $479 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to the 2009 awards, primarily classified, as discussed below. Backlog at December 31, 2008 remained relatively consistent with backlog at December 31, 2007. The increase in bookings of $519 million in 2009 was primarily due to higher international and domestic tactical radar awards in 2009. In 2009, SAS booked $422 million to supply APG 63 fire control radars and support equipment for the Japan Air Self Defense Force, $295 million for the B 2 RMP and $147 million on the Integrated Sensor Is Structure (ISIS) radar program for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). SAS also booked $1,330 million on a number of classified contracts. Bookings in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007. In 2008, SAS booked $1.5 billion on a number of classified contracts. In 2007, SAS booked over $860 million on a number of classified contracts, including $381 million on a major classified program in the fourth quarter. SAS also booked $329 million related to a capability for a satellite system. Technical Services % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2009 2008 2007 2009comparedto 2008 2008comparedto 2007 Total Net Sales $ 3,161 $ 2,601 $ 2,174 21.5 % 19.6 % Total Operating Expenses 2,946 2,427 2,035 21.4 % 19.3 % Operating Income 215 174 139 23.6 % 25.2 % Operating Margin 6.8 % 6.7 % 6.4 % Bookings $ 2,633 $ 2,753 $ 1,610 4.4 % 71.0 % Total Backlog 2,773 2,752 1,925 0.8 % 43.0 % TS provides a full spectrum of technical, scientific and professional services to defense, federal, international and commercial customers worldwide. It specializes in training, logistics, engineering services, product support and operational support services. TS provides solutions for the mission support, homeland security, space, civil aviation, counterproliferation and counterterrorism markets. Key customers include all branches of the U.S. Armed Forces, the DHS, NASA, FAA, Department of Energy, Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) and international governments. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $560 million in 2009 was primarily due to $589 million of higher net sales from growth on TS training programs, principally domestic and foreign operational training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities, which began significant efforts in May 2008, and training activities performed on the Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions (ATCOTS) contract for the FAA, a program awarded in 2008, which began training activities in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase was partially offset by $98 million of lower net sales on a DTRA program, principally from lower volume due to the substantial completion of contract scope in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase in operating expenses of $519 million in 2009 was driven primarily by the activity described above. The increase in net sales of $427 million in 2008 was primarily due to $381 million of higher net sales from growth on TS training programs, principally domestic and foreign operational training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities, which began significant efforts in May 2008. The increase in operating expenses of $392 million in 2008 was driven primarily by activity in the programs described above. 53 Table of Contents Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $41 million in 2009 was primarily due to increased volume, which had a $37 million impact on operating income. Operating margin in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. The increase in operating income of $35 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, which had a $30 million impact on operating income. Operating margin in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007. Backlog and Bookings Backlog at December 31, 2009 remained relatively consistent with backlog at December 31, 2008. The increase in backlog of $827 million at December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 was primarily due to 2008 awards from the U.S. Army for domestic and foreign operational training programs and from the FAA for the ATCOTS contract discussed below. Bookings in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. In 2009, TS booked $1.0 billion on domestic operational training programs and $300 million on foreign operational training programs in support of the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities, $160 million to upgrade Phalanx Weapon Systems for the Royal Canadian Navy and $100 million for DTRA. The increase in bookings of $1.1 billion in 2008 was primarily due to bookings for domestic and foreign operational training programs in support of the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities and the FAAs ATCOTS contract. In 2008, TS booked $890 million on domestic operational training programs and $67 million on foreign operational training programs in support of the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities as well as $436 million on the FAAs ATCOTS contract. In 2007, TS booked $492 million on work for the Department of Energy and DTRA, and $48 million on domestic operational training programs and $70 million on foreign operational training programs in support of the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities. FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment represents the difference between our pension expense or income under FAS in accordance with GAAP and our pension expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment was as follows: (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 FAS expense $ (646 ) $ (524 ) $ (693 ) CAS expense 673 401 434 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment $ 27 $ (123 ) $ (259 ) As discussed above in Critical Accounting Estimates, a key driver of the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years, and are amortized under CAS over a 15 year period. In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly. 54 Table of Contents In 2009, our CAS expense increased by $150 million more than our FAS expense, resulting in a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $27 million of income in 2009 versus $123 million of expense in 2008. The $272 million increase in our CAS expense was driven primarily by negative asset returns in 2008, which caused certain plans to no longer be fully funded under CAS. Our FAS expense also increased by $122 million. The primary components of the change in FAS expense included an increase of $297 million due to the lower than expected return on pension assets during 2008, partially offset by a decrease of $106 million due to the expected return on our discretionary cash contribution to our plans in 2008 as well as the expected return on the expected cash contributions in 2009. In addition, the FAS expense decreased by $47 million due to the recognition of previous historical asset returns which were greater than the expected return. In 2008, our FAS expense decreased by $169 million compared to 2007. The primary components of the change in FAS expense included a decrease of $88 million due to the recognition of previous years historical asset returns, which were greater than the expected return and a decrease of $66 million due to the expected return on our discretionary cash contributions to our plans in 2007 as well as the expected return on the expected cash contributions in 2008. For 2010, we currently expect our FAS expense will increase more than our CAS expense, which will increase the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. We expect the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to be approximately $220 million of expense driven by the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, as discussed above, of the net unrecognized liability, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns. This expected increase in FAS expense in excess of CAS expense is subject to our annual update, generally planned in the third quarter, of our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS for final 2009 census data. After 2010, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is more difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2009 and without an adjustment for the Harmonization Rule, it appears our FAS expense will continue to exceed our CAS expense until 2013 driven by the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, as discussed above, of the unfunded benefit obligation, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns. Corporate and Eliminations Corporate and Eliminations includes corporate expenses and intersegment sales and profit eliminations. Corporate expenses represent unallocated costs and certain other corporate costs not considered part of managements evaluation of reportable segment operating performance, including the net costs associated with our residual commuter aircraft portfolio. The components of total net sales related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows: (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Intersegment sales eliminations $ (2,004 ) $ (1,884 ) $ (1,776 ) Corporate 30 (21 ) 74 Total $ (1,974 ) $ (1,905 ) $ (1,702 ) The components of operating income related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows: (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Intersegment profit eliminations $ (173 ) $ (166 ) $ (160 ) Corporate (70 ) (116 ) (73 ) Total $ (243 ) $ (282 ) $ (233 ) 55 Table of Contents The increase in total net sales and operating income related to Corporate in 2009 compared to 2008 and the decrease in total net sales and operating income related to Corporate in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the increase in estimated future CAS pension costs at December 31, 2008 as discussed below. As discussed above in Critical Accounting Estimates, pension costs as calculated under CAS are a component of our estimated costs to complete each of our U.S. Government contracts. On an annual basis, we update our estimate of future CAS pension costs based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. When these estimated future costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our pension assets in 2008, the estimated costs to complete each existing contract increases. The amounts of revenue and profit which are recognizable based upon our estimated percent complete and expected margins on our contracts, principally on our fixed price contracts, were reduced. In 2008, we recorded a cumulative catch up adjustment for this reduction in revenue and profit of $69 million as part of Corporate and Eliminations consistent with our internal management reporting and performance evaluation. The components of the adjustment were as follows: (In millions) Integrated Defense Systems $ 20 Intelligence and Information Systems 7 Missile Systems 14 Network Centric Systems 12 Space and Airborne Systems 12 Technical Services 4 Total $ 69 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax consisted of the following results from Raytheon Aircraft Company (Raytheon Aircraft), Flight Options LLC (Flight Options) and Other Discontinued Operations: Pretax After tax (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Gain on sale of Raytheon Aircraft $ $ $ 1,598 $ $ $ 986 Raytheon Aircraft discontinued operations 8 6 45 7 8 30 Loss on sale of Flight Options (73 ) (44 ) Flight Options discontinued operations (2 ) (112 ) (1 ) (88 ) Other Discontinued Operations (6 ) (1 ) 8 (7 ) (10 ) 1 Total $ $ 5 $ 1,466 $ (1 ) $ (2 ) $ 885 From time to time, we have disposed of certain businesses, including our Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options, Raytheon Engineers & Constructors and Aircraft Integration Systems businesses. As a result, we present Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options and our other previously disposed businesses (Other Discontinued Operations) as discontinued operations for all periods. All residual activity relating to our disposed businesses appears in discontinued operations. In 2007, we sold Raytheon Aircraft for $3,318 million in gross proceeds, $3,117 million, net. We recorded a gain on sale of $986 million, net of $612 million of federal, foreign and state income taxes. In 2007, we sought and received a number of initial bids to purchase Flight Options. These initial bids were below our previous estimates of Flight Options fair value, which was based upon its projected discounted cash flows. As a result of receiving these external indications of market value and other conditions and events that occurred during the year, we recorded an impairment charge of $84 million pretax, $69 million after tax in 2007, which included all of Flight Options remaining goodwill and a portion of its other intangible assets. Subsequently, we sold Flight Options and recorded a loss on sale of $73 million pretax, $44 million after tax. In connection with the sale of Flight Options, we recorded a note receivable for $9 million, which was subsequently collected in 2008. 56 Table of Contents We retained certain assets and liabilities of these disposed businesses. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $71 million in non current assets primarily related to our subordinated retained interest in general aviation finance receivables previously sold by Raytheon Aircraft. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $57 million and $77 million, respectively, primarily in current liabilities related to various contract obligations, certain environmental liabilities, aircraft lease obligations, non income tax obligations and certain product liabilities. We also have certain income tax obligations relating to these disposed businesses, which we include in our income tax disclosures. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) concluded a federal excise tax audit and assessed us additional excise tax related to the treatment of certain Flight Options customer fees and charges, which we have appealed. We continue to believe that an unfavorable outcome is not probable and expect that any potential liability will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We also retained certain U.K. pension assets and obligations for a limited number of U.K. pension plan participants as part of the Raytheon Aircraft sale, which we include in our pension disclosures. No interest expense was allocated to discontinued operations in 2009, 2008 and 2007 since there was no debt specifically attributable to discontinued operations or required to be repaid with proceeds from the sales. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Overview We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases, as outlined below. Our need for, cost of and access to funds are dependent on future operating results, as well as other external conditions. We currently expect that cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and other available financing resources will be sufficient to meet anticipated operating, capital expenditure, investment, debt service and other financing requirements during the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future. During 2009, certain significant cash flows, discussed in more detail below, were as follows: $1,200 million of stock repurchases; $1,160 million of required contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans; $496 million in proceeds from the issuance of long term debt, net of offering costs; $474 million of long term debt repayments; $473 million in dividend payments; $347 million for payments for additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software; $334 million for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired; and $208 million of net federal and foreign tax payments. In addition, the following table highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: (In millions) 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,642 $ 2,259 Working capital 2,345 2,268 Amount available under our credit facilities 1,479 2,160 The increase of $77 million in working capital in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to an increase in contracts in process driven by the timing of payments, partially offset by federal tax refunds as discussed below. As discussed further below, in 2009 we replaced our $2.2 billion credit facility with $1.5 billion in credit facilities. Operating Activities (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 2,745 $ 2,036 $ 1,249 Cash provided by operating activities 2,725 2,015 1,198 57 Table of Contents The increase of $710 million in net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to: $240 million of lower net tax payments, driven by the $350 million refund discussed below and $69 million of overpayment credits; $42 million of lower pension and other postretirement benefit payments as discussed below; and $37 million of proceeds from the termination of our interest rate swap agreements. The remainder of the increase in net cash was primarily due to an increase in net cash receipts in line with total net sales growth. The increase of $817 million in net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to lower tax payments and pension plan contributions. Tax Payments Total federal and foreign tax payments, net of refunds and credits, were $208 million in 2009 compared to $448 million in 2008 and $734 million in 2007. Net tax payments in 2009 included $350 million of refunds and $69 million of overpayment credits. Net tax payments in 2007 included $631 million of payments related to the sale of Raytheon Aircraft and refunds of $381 million related to a federal research credit claim and export tax benefit claims. Federal and foreign tax payments, net of refunds and credits, for 2010 are expected to approximate $840 million. Pension Plan Contributions We make both discretionary and required contributions to our pension plans. Required contributions are primarily determined by ERISA and are affected by the actual return on plan assets and plan funded status. If discretionary contributions are made, a funding credit is accumulated which can be used to offset future calculated required contributions. The funding credit for our pension plans was $2.6 billion at December 31, 2009. Discretionary and required contributions were as follows: (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Discretionary contributions $ $ 660 $ 900 Required contributions 1,115 514 416 Total $ 1,115 $ 1,174 $ 1,316 Required contributions in 2009 were higher than 2008 due to the impact of the decline in the value of pension plan assets in 2008. Discretionary contributions in 2008 were lower than in 2007 due to the acceleration of a planned 2008 contribution of $500 million into December of 2007. We expect to make required contributions to our pension plans of approximately $1.1 billion in 2010. We will continue to periodically evaluate whether to make additional discretionary contributions. Future funding requirements will likely be affected by the requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as further discussed below in Contractual Obligations. Other postretirement benefit payments were $45 million, $28 million and $43 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Financing Receivables Collections of financing receivables were $46 million, $68 million and $88 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As a result of our divestitures of Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options in 2007, we do not expect to originate any significant long term aircraft financing receivables in the future; however, we continue to hold $53 million of financing receivables as part of our commuter aircraft portfolio. Interest payments were $147 million, $142 million and $232 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in interest payments in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in average debt outstanding. Investing Activities (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities from continuing operations $ (692 ) $ (417 ) $ 2,536 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (692 ) (417 ) 2,507 The increase of cash outflows of $275 million in net cash (used in) provided by investing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the acquisition of BBN in the fourth quarter of 2009. The decrease of $2,924 million in net cash (used in) provided by investing activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the proceeds from the divestitures of Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options in 2007 discussed below. 58 Table of Contents Additions to property plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software Information on our additions to property, plant and equipment were as follows: (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Additions to property, plant and equipment $ 280 $ 304 $ 313 Additions to capitalized internal use software 67 74 85 We expect our capital and internal use software expenditures to be approximately $410 million and $140 million, respectively, in 2010, consistent with the anticipated growth of our business and for specific investments including program capital assets and facility improvements. In pursuing our business strategies, we acquire and make investments in certain businesses that meet strategic and financial criteria, and divest of certain non core businesses, investments and assets when appropriate. Acquisitions In October 2009, we acquired BBN which enhances our advanced networking, speech and language technologies, information technologies, sensor systems and cybersecurity, for $334 million in cash, net of $22 million of cash acquired, exclusive of retention and management incentive payments. In 2008, we acquired Telemus Solutions, Inc. and SI Government Solutions, which enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, for an aggregate of $52 million in cash. In 2007, we acquired Oakley Networks, Inc., which enhanced our cybersecurity capabilities, and the robotics technologies and capabilities of Sarcos for an aggregate of $211 million, exclusive of retention and management incentive payments for future services. Divestitures In 2007, we received pretax net proceeds of $3,143 million related to our sales of Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options. Financing Activities (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Net cash used in financing activities $ (1,650 ) $ (1,994 ) $ (3,510 ) We have used cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from the sale of Raytheon Aircraft in 2007 and proceeds from the issuance of new debt in 2009 as our primary source for the repayment of debt, payment of dividends and the repurchase of our common stock. The decrease of $344 million in net cash used in financing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $500 million of lower repurchases of common stock under our share repurchase program, partially offset by a $112 million reduction in activity under common stock plans due to lower stock option exercises, as further discussed below. Debt In the fourth quarter of 2009, we received proceeds of $496 million from the issuance of $500 million fixed rate long term debt and exercised our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to U.S. Treasuries, $474 million of our long term debt maturing in 2011 at a loss of $22 million pretax, which is included in other expense, net. We made no debt repayments in 2008 compared to $1,724 million in 2007. Our 2007 debt repayments consisted of the retirement of $685 million of current maturities and the exercise of our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to U.S. Treasuries, $1,039 million of our long term debt maturing between 2008 2010 at a loss of $59 million pretax, which is included in other expense, net. Our next principal payment of debt of $333 million is due in 2012. Stock Repurchases Information on our repurchases of our common stock under our share repurchase programs was as follows: (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Amount of stock repurchased $ 1,200 $ 1,700 $ 1,642 Shares of stock repurchased 25.8 30.7 28.7 59 Table of Contents In October 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $1,130 million of our common stock had been repurchased and approximately $870 million remained under this program. All previous repurchase programs had been completed as of December 31, 2009. Cash Dividends Our Board of Directors declared the following cash dividends: (In millions, except per share amounts) 2009 2008 2007 Cash dividends per share $ 1.24 $ 1.12 $ 1.02 Total dividends paid 473 460 440 In March 2009, our Board of Directors authorized an 11% increase in our annual dividend payout rate from $1.12 to $1.24 per share. In March 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a 10% increase in our annual dividend payout rate from $1.02 to $1.12 per share. Although we do not have a formal dividend policy we believe that a reasonable dividend payout ratio is approximately one third of our income from continuing operations excluding the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. Dividends are subject to quarterly approval by our Board of Directors. CAPITAL RESOURCES Total debt was $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Our outstanding debt bears contractual interest at fixed interest rates ranging from 4.4% to 7.2% and matures at various dates through 2028. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents were $2.6 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. We invest cash in U.S. Treasuries; commercial paper of financial institutions and corporations with AA /Aa3 or better long term and A 1+/P 1 short term debt ratings, or guaranteed by the U.S. Governments Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program; AAA/Aaa U.S. Treasury money market funds; bank certificates of deposit; and time deposits with AA or Aa3 long term debt ratings. Cash balances held at our foreign subsidiaries were approximately 15% of our total cash balance at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, and are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. Credit Facilities In November 2009, we entered into two new bank revolving credit facilities in the amount of $1.5 billion in the aggregate replacing the previous $2.2 billion bank revolving credit facility which was set to mature in March 2010. The first new credit facility is a $1.0 billion, three year facility maturing in November 2012, $150 million of which is available to Raytheon United Kingdom Limited, our U.K. subsidiary. The second new credit facility is a $500 million 364 day facility maturing in November 2010. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at various rate options, including LIBOR plus a margin based on our credit default swap spread, with minimum and maximum margins that are adjusted for our credit ratings. Based on our credit ratings at December 31, 2009, borrowings under these facilities would bear interest at LIBOR plus 100 basis points, the minimum margin. Under the $1.0 billion facility, we can borrow, issue letters of credit and backstop commercial paper. Under the $500 million facility, we can borrow and backstop commercial paper. The credit facilities are comprised of commitments from approximately twenty five separate highly rated lenders, each committing no more than 10% of the aggregate of the facilities. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, there were no borrowings outstanding under these credit facilities or our previous facility. However, we had approximately $20 million and $40 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, which effectively reduced our borrowing capacity under these credit facilities and our previous credit facility by that same amount. Under the two new facilities and the previous credit facility, we must comply with certain covenants, including a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 50% and a ratio of consolidated earnings attributable to Raytheon Company before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to consolidated net interest expense, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of no less than 3 to 1. We were in compliance with the covenants during 2009 and 2008. Our ratio of total debt to total capitalization, as defined in the credit facilities, was 19.0% and 20.1% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 60 Table of Contents Certain of our foreign subsidiaries maintain revolving bank lines of credit to provide them with a limited amount of short term liquidity, including the $150 million Raytheon United Kingdom Limited sub line discussed above. In addition, other uncommitted bank lines totaled approximately $15 million and $10 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were no amounts outstanding under these lines of credit at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Compensating balance arrangements are not material. Credit Ratings Three major corporate debt rating organizations, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Standard & Poors (S&P), assign ratings to our short term and long term debt. The following chart reflects the current ratings assigned by each of these agencies as of December 31, 2009 to our short term debt and long term senior unsecured debt: Short Term Long Term Senior Debt Rating Agency Debt Rating Outlook Date of Last Action Fitch F2 A Stable September 2008 Moodys P 2 Baa1 Stable March 2007 S&P A 2 A Stable September 2008 In September 2008, Fitch upgraded our long term senior unsecured debt rating from BBB+ to A and S&P upgraded our long term senior unsecured debt rating from BBB+ to A . Shelf Registrations The total capacity of our current shelf registration, filed with the SEC in October 2008, is $3.0 billion, of which $500 million was used to issue the fixed rate long term debt in 2009, as discussed above and $450 million was used for the registration of common stock issuable under certain outstanding warrants issued in 2006. During the recent downturn in global financial markets, some companies have experienced difficulties accessing their cash equivalents, trading investment securities, drawing on revolvers, issuing debt and raising capital generally, which have had a material adverse impact on their liquidity. Given our current cash position, credit ratings, cash needs and debt structure, along with the type of short term investments we have made, we have not experienced any material issues and we continue to expect that our current liquidity, notwithstanding recent market conditions, will be sufficient to meet all our anticipated needs during the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following is a schedule of our contractual obligations outstanding at December 31, 2009: (In millions) Total Less than1 year(2010) 1 3 years(2011 2012) 4 5 years(2013 2014) After 5 years(2015 and thereafter) Debt(1) $ 2,336 $ $ 333 $ 345 $ 1,658 Interest payments 1,426 132 276 212 806 Operating leases 1,046 267 332 163 284 Purchase obligations 8,481 5,908 2,288 202 83 Total $ 13,289 $ 6,307 $ 3,229 $ 922 $ 2,831 (1) Debt includes scheduled principal payments only. Purchase obligations in the table above represent enforceable and legally binding agreements with suppliers to purchase goods or services. We enter into contracts with customers, primarily the U.S. Government, which entitles us to full recourse for costs incurred, including purchase obligations, in the event the contract is terminated by the customer for convenience. These purchase obligations are included above notwithstanding the amount for which we are entitled to full recourse from our customers. The table above does not include required pension and other postretirement contributions, which we expect to make in 2010 of $1.2 billion, exclusive of any U.S. Government recovery. The ERISA funding requirements will be replaced by the requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Under the Pension Protection Act, companies will be required to fully fund their pension plans over a seven year period. For 61 Table of Contents certain defense contractors, the new funding rules become effective when the Harmonization Rule goes into effect or no later than 2011. It is expected that the final Harmonization rule will provide a framework to make more similar the CAS requirements and the ERISA requirements, as revised by the Pension Protection Act. Interest payments include interest on debt that is redeemable at our option. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and the accrual for the related interest, net of the federal benefit, was $549 million and $478 million, respectively, and was included in accrued retiree benefits and other long term liabilities. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when a cash settlement, if any, will occur with a tax authority as the timing of examinations and ultimate resolutions of those examinations is uncertain. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into off balance sheet arrangements, including the sale of general aviation receivables. Such arrangements are not material to our overall liquidity or capital resources, market risk support or credit risk support as detailed below. We also issue guarantees to third parties on behalf of our affiliates as described below in Commitments and Contingencies. We previously sold undivided interests in general aviation finance receivables, while retaining subordinated interests in and servicing rights to the receivables. We irrevocably, and without recourse, transferred the receivables to a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), General Aviation Receivables Corporation (GARC), formed in 2003, which in turn, issued beneficial interests in these receivables to a commercial paper conduit. The conduit obtained the funds to purchase the interest in the receivables, other than the retained interest, by selling commercial paper to third party investors. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the outstanding balance of securitized accounts receivable held by the third party conduit totaled $73 million and $99 million, respectively, of which our subordinated retained interest was $67 million and $66 million, respectively, and the fair value of the servicing liability was less than $1 million at December 31, 2008. There was no servicing liability at December 31, 2009. The underlying aircraft serve as collateral for these accounts receivable. We estimated the fair value of the subordinated retained interest at December 31, 2009 and 2008 based on the present value of future expected cash flows using certain key assumptions, including collection period and a discount rate of 5.3% and 4.4%, respectively. At December 31, 2009, a 10% and 20% adverse change in the collection period and discount rate would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. In January 2010, we adopted the required new accounting standards which amend the accounting and disclosure requirements for transfers of financial assets and consolidation of variable interest entities (VIEs). Among other things, these accounting standards eliminate the concept of a QSPE and the related exception for applying the consolidation guidance. As a result, on January 1, 2010 we consolidated GARC, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and resulted in: The removal of our $67 million investment in GARC previously reported in other assets, net, and The addition of long and short term notes receivable, net of $68 million, current and long term notes payable of $2 million, and an increase in retained earnings of less than $1 million, net of tax. In 1997, we provided a first loss guarantee of $133 million on $1.3 billion of U.S. Export Import Bank loans (maturing in 2015) to the Brazilian Government related to the System for the Vigilance of the Amazon (SIVAM) program being performed by NCS. Loan repayments by the Brazilian Government were current at December 31, 2009. In addition, we have entered into certain joint ventures formed specifically to facilitate a teaming arrangement between two contractors for the benefit of the customer, generally the U.S. Government, whereby we receive a subcontract from the joint venture in the joint ventures capacity as prime contractor. Accordingly, we record the work the joint venture performs as an operating activity. 62 Table of Contents COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. Our estimate of total environmental remediation costs was $208 million and $157 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Discounted at a weighted average risk free rate of 5.7%, we estimated the liability at December 31, 2009 and 2008 to be $139 million and $105 million, respectively, before U.S. Government recovery and had this amount accrued. A portion of these costs are eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. We consider such recovery probable based on government contracting regulations and our long history of receiving reimbursement for such costs. Accordingly, we recorded $97 million and $69 million in contracts in process through December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for the estimated future recovery of these costs from the U.S. Government. We also lease certain government owned properties and are generally not liable for remediation of preexisting environmental contamination at these sites; as a result, we generally do not reflect the provision for these costs in our consolidated financial statements. Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance coverage and the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of these matters; however, we do not expect any additional liability to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We issue guarantees and banks and surety companies issue, on our behalf, letters of credit and surety bonds to meet various bid, performance, warranty, retention and advance payment obligations of us or our affiliates. Approximately $227 million, $898 million and $203 million of these guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds, for which there were stated values, were outstanding at December 31, 2009, respectively, and $281 million, $1,012 million and $111 million were outstanding at December 31, 2008, respectively. These instruments expire on various dates through 2020. Additional guarantees of project performance for which there is no stated value also remain outstanding. Included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $80 million and $206 million at December 31, 2009, respectively and $59 million and $180 million at December 31, 2008, respectively, related to our joint venture in Thales Raytheon Systems Co. Ltd. (TRS). We provide these guarantees and letters of credit to TRS and other affiliates to assist these entities in obtaining financing on more favorable terms, making bids on contracts and performing their contractual obligations. While we expect these entities to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations, their failure to do so may result in a future obligation to us. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had an estimated liability of $6 million and $2 million, respectively, related to these guarantees and letters of credit. We periodically evaluate the risk of TRS and other affiliates failing to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations described above. At December 31, 2009, we believe the risk that TRS and other affiliates will not be able to perform or meet their obligations is minimal for the foreseeable future based on their current financial condition. All obligations were current at December 31, 2009. Also included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $10 million and $6 million at December 31, 2009, respectively, and $86 million and $6 million at December 31, 2008, respectively, related to discontinued operations. Our residual turbo prop commuter aircraft portfolio has exposure to outstanding financing arrangements with the aircraft serving as collateral. We have sold and leased commuter aircraft globally to thinly capitalized companies whose financial condition could be significantly affected by a number of factors, including fuel and other costs, industry consolidation, declining commercial aviation market conditions and the U.S. Government budget for the Essential Air Service program. Based on recent economic trends, including tightening credit markets and volatile fuel costs, these companies may increasingly experience difficulties meeting their financial commitments. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, our exposure on commuter aircraft assets held as inventory, collateral on notes or as leased assets, was approximately $109 million relating to 106 aircraft and approximately $170 million relating to 127 aircraft, respectively. The valuation of used aircraft in inventories, which are stated at cost, but not in excess of realizable value, requires significant judgment. The valuation of used aircraft is also considered in assessing the realizable value of certain commuter aircraft related assets which serve as collateral for the underlying financing arrangements. As part of the assessment of realizable value, we evaluate many factors, including sales transaction history, current market conditions, anticipated future market conditions and age and condition of the aircraft. The carrying value of our commuter aircraft 63 Table of Contents portfolio assumes an orderly disposition of these assets, consistent with our historical experience and strategy. The tightening of credit markets and economic conditions have reduced the number of potential buyers who are able to obtain financing and have negatively impacted the ability of existing borrowers to refinance their aircraft through a third party. If the long term market prospects for these aircraft were to significantly erode or cease, our valuation of these assets would likely be less than the carrying value. We periodically evaluate potential alternative strategies for the disposal of these assets. If we were to dispose of these assets in an other than orderly manner or sell the portfolio in its entirety, the value realized would likely be less than the carrying value. In 1997, we provided a first loss guarantee of $133 million on $1.3 billion of U.S. Export Import Bank loans (maturing in 2015) to the Brazilian Government related to Network Centric Systems System for the Vigilance of the Amazon (SIVAM) program. Loan repayments by the Brazilian Government were current at December 31, 2009. Government contractors are subject to many levels of audit and investigation. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional Committees. The Department of Justice, from time to time, has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S. and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government regulation or any applicable U.S. Government regulation (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations) may also be investigated or audited. We do not expect these audits and investigations to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate. We are currently conducting a self initiated internal review of certain of our international operations, focusing on compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In the course of the review, we have identified several possible areas of concern relating to payments made in connection with certain international operations related to a jurisdiction where we do business. We have voluntarily contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice to advise both agencies that an internal review is underway. Because the internal review is ongoing, we cannot predict the ultimate consequences of the review. Based on the information available to date, we do not believe that the results of this review will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2006, international arbitration hearings commenced against us as the successor to the Hughes Electronics defense business, in connection with certain claims brought in 2004 relating to an alleged 1995 Workshare Agreement. The asserted claims involve breach of contract, intellectual property infringement and other related matters. The arbitration panel stayed further proceedings, including the issuance of the liability decision on the non IP claims presented during the May 2006 hearing, while the parties engaged in settlement efforts. The parties were unable to conclude an enforceable settlement, and in August 2009, the panel released its liability decision, rejecting some of MBDAs non IP claims, while finding Raytheon liable for some other non IP claims. We did not record any significant additional financial liability as a result of our estimate of the impact of the decision. The proceedings will now resume to determine liability for the asserted IP claims and to assess overall damages, if any. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the remaining asserted IP claims and intend to continue to contest them vigorously; however, an adverse resolution of this matter could have a material effect on our results of operations. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In 2009, we adopted required new accounting standards related to the following: The accounting and disclosure of noncontrolling interests as discussed in Note 7 within Item 8 of this Form 10 K; The disclosure of derivative instruments and hedging activities as discussed in Note 8 within Item 8 of this Form 10 K; The accounting and disclosure of certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis, as discussed in Note 9 within Item 8 of this Form 10 K; The earnings per share (EPS) impact of instruments granted in share based payment transactions as discussed in Note 12 within Item 8 of this Form 10 K; The disclosure of postretirement benefit plan assets as discussed in Note 14 within Item 8 of this Form 10 K; and The accounting for business combinations, which we have applied prospectively to business combinations with acquisition dates after January 1, 2009. 64 Table of Contents As discussed above in Off Balance Sheet Arrangements, in January 2010, we adopted the required new accounting standards which amend the accounting and disclosure requirements for transfers of financial assets and consolidation of VIEs. Among other things, these accounting standards eliminate the concept of a QSPE and the related exception for applying the consolidation guidance. As a result, on January 1, 2010 we consolidated GARC, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and resulted in: The removal of our $67 million investment in the GARC previously reported in other assets, net, and The addition of long and short term notes receivable, net of $68 million, current and long term notes payable of $2 million, and an increase in retained earnings of less than $1 million, net of tax. Further, the new accounting standard related to consolidation of VIEs requires an enterprise to perform a qualitative analysis when determining whether or not it must consolidate a VIE. It also requires an enterprise to continuously reassess whether it must consolidate a VIE. Additionally, it requires enhanced disclosures about an enterprises involvement with VIEs and any significant change in risk exposure due to that involvement, as well as how its involvement with VIEs impacts the enterprises financial statements. Finally, an enterprise is required to disclose significant judgments and assumptions used to determine whether or not to consolidate a VIE. With the exception of GARC discussed above, the adoption of this accounting standard did not change any of our previous conclusions regarding our VIEs and thus did not have an effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Other new pronouncements issued but not effective until after December 31, 2009, are not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable rate short term and fixed rate long term financing. We periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. The market risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest and exchange rates. For long term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates at December 31, 2008. We terminated these interest rate swaps in the first quarter of 2009. There were no interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Long Term Debt 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ $ 333 $ 345 $ $ 1,658 $ 2,336 $ 2,581 Average interest rate 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.10 % 5.91 % 65 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Long Term Debt 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ $ 453 $ 333 $ 345 $ 1,158 $ 2,289 $ 2,493 Average interest rate 4.85 % 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.84 % 6.03 % As of December 31, 2008 Aggregate Notional Amounts Associated with Interest Rate Swaps in Place and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Interest Rate Swaps 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed to variable $ $ $ 250 $ $ 325 $ $ 575 $ 48 Average variable rate paid 1.50 % 2.10 % 1.84 % Average fixed receive rate 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.49 % The notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts consisted of the following at: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 (In millions) Buy Sell Buy Sell British Pounds $ 407 $ 498 $ 382 $ 489 Canadian Dollars 212 46 189 27 Euros 190 35 87 1 All other 176 53 146 40 Total $ 985 $ 632 $ 804 $ 557 Unrealized gains of $69 million and $81 million were included in non current assets and unrealized losses of $33 million and $107 million were included in current liabilities at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. Realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. We believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 66 Table of Contents 
 
