ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Introduction Raytheon Company develops technologically advanced, integrated products, services and solutions in four core defense markets, sensing, effects, command, control, communications and intelligence (C3I), and mission support, as well as the cybersecurity and homeland security markets. We serve both domestic and international customers, as both a prime and subcontractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for government customers. We operate in six business segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS), Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) and Technical Services (TS). For a more detailed description of our segments, see Business Segments within Item 1 of this Form 10 K. In this section, we discuss our industry and how certain factors may affect our business, key elements of our strategy, how our financial performance is assessed and measured by management, and other business considerations, including certain risks and challenges to our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting estimates, which are those estimates that are most important to both the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements subjective judgment. We then review our results of operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008 beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by business segment. We also review our financial condition and liquidity including our capital structure and resources, off balance sheet arrangements, commitments and contingencies, and conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Industry Considerations Domestic Considerations U.S. Government budget deficits for 2010 and 2011 are expected to be high by historical standards. The U.S. economic recovery has been weaker than anticipated and unemployment remains high. As a result, we expect that the Administration and the Congress will have to consider deficit reduction initiatives within the context of a weak economy and competing spending priorities. These spending priorities include entitlement spending, such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, and programs that are appropriated on an annual basis, including defense, homeland security, international affairs, and a host of civil programs, ranging from education to veterans health care to law enforcement to transportation infrastructure and more. In February 2010, the Department of Defense (DoD) released the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), setting forth its strategic priorities for the next four years. The QDR emphasized the need to successfully prosecute the operations in Afghanistan and Iraq while also reshaping DoD forces to be able to respond to a wide range of future contingencies. Among the priorities emphasized in the QDR were Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, cyberwarfare, missile defense, unmanned systems, and interoperability with allied forces. We believe that these priorities are well aligned with our product offerings, technologies and capabilities. The 2010 mid term election results are expected to elevate the priority of deficit reduction. It remains unclear how much of the deficit will be reduced by revenue changes and cuts to entitlement programs. We therefore expect all programs that are appropriated on an annual basis, including defense, to undergo close scrutiny by both the Administration and the Congress in the near future. We also anticipate that the fragile economic recovery will mean that policymakers will take potential job losses into consideration, which could mitigate calls for more significant cuts in spending, particularly in the near term. In June 2010, the DoD launched its own series of initiatives to ensure more efficient use of its resources in order to sufficiently fund its highest priorities: maintaining force structure and modernizing its weapons systems and equipment. According to the DoD, its Efficiencies Initiative, coupled with funding the base budget at one percent annual real 30 Table of Contents growth, should enable it to adequately pursue its strategic objectives as outlined in the QDR. If and to the extent that aspects of the Efficiencies Initiative are implemented, they could impact our results of operations and liquidity and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. In addition, the U.S. Government has been operating under a series of Continuing Resolutions since the start of fiscal year (FY) 2011 on October 1, 2010. A Continuing Resolution authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. If the Continuing Resolution continues in effect for an extended period, it could impact the performance of our current programs and continue to delay new awards. The U.S. Government including foreign military sales accounted for 88% of our total net sales in 2010. Our principal U.S. Government customer is the DoD, and DoD funding has grown substantially since fiscal year (FY) 2001, when it was $300 billion. However, given the current environment, defense spending levels in the near future are difficult to predict. At a minimum, we expect lower growth rates in the overall DoD budget than those of the past decade, with a number of factors potentially impacting the DoD budget, including the following: External threats to our national security, including potential security threats posed by terrorists, emerging nuclear states and other countries; Funding for on going operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which will require funding above and beyond the DoD base budget for their duration; Priorities of the Administration and the Congress, including deficit reduction given the historically high deficit and unemployment levels and the 2010 mid term election results, and the relatively fragile state of the economic recovery, which could result in changes in the DoD budget overall and various allocations within the DoD budget; and The overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. For FY 2011, the DoD had requested a base budget of $549 billion, an increase of approximately $18 billion or 3% over FY 2010, which excludes funding for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. This request included $189 billion for DoD modernization funding (an increase of approximately $4 billion or 2%), consisting of procurement and research and development (R&D), and $200 billion for the DoD Operations and Maintenance Account (O&M) (an increase of approximately $16 billion or 9%), including funding for training, services and other logistical support functions. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) in Afghanistan and Iraq have largely been funded apart from the DoD base budget to better maintain visibility and oversight of war costs. The DoDs request for FY 2011 OCO funding was $159 billion, which is just slightly lower than the $163 billion enacted for FY 2010 OCO activities. Looking forward, OCO funding is expected to decline as troops redeploy out of Iraq and later from Afghanistan. The request for future OCO funding will be determined on an as needed basis and will likely be closely correlated to the amount of troops required for each operation. With respect to other domestic customers beyond the DoD, we have contracts with a wide range of U.S. Government agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of Justice (DoJ), the Department of State, the Department of Energy, the Intelligence Community, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Science Foundation (NSF). Similar to the budget environment for the DoD, we expect the Administration will have to take deficit considerations into account when determining spending priorities for these agencies. Our relationship with these agencies, however, generally is determined more by specific program requirements than by a direct correlation to the overall funding levels for these agencies. We also have contracts with various state and local government agencies that also are subject to budget constraints and conflicts in spending priorities. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact the U.S. Governments demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. International Considerations In 2010, our sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for 23% of our total net sales (including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government). Internationally, the growing threat of additional terrorist activity, emerging nuclear states, long range missiles and conventional military threats have led to an increase in demand for defense products and 31 Table of Contents services and homeland security solutions. In North Asia, both short and long term security concerns are increasing demand for air and missile defense, air/naval modernization, maritime security, homeland security and air traffic management. In the Middle East, threats from state and non state actors are increasing demand for air and missile defense, air/land/naval force modernization, precision engagement, maritime security, border security, and homeland security solutions. In South America, the economic growth in some developing countries is being accompanied by an increase in defense spending. While this region has traditionally been a smaller market for U.S. based suppliers, it is likely to see above average growth rates. Global economic challenges are likely to restrain or even shrink the defense budgets of many European nations. Overall, we believe many international defense budgets have the potential to grow faster than the U.S. defense budget. International customers are also expected to continue to adopt similar defense modernization initiatives as the U.S. DoD. We believe this trend will continue as many international customers are facing a threat environment which is similar to the U.S. and they are looking for advanced weapons and sensor systems. Alliance members also wish to assure their forces and systems will be interoperable with U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces. However, international demand is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and geo political uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as U.S. foreign policy. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact international demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Our Strategy and Opportunities The following are the broad elements of our strategy: Focus on key strategic pursuits, technology and Mission Assurance to protect and grow our position in four core defense markets: Sensing, Effects, C3I and Mission Support. Leverage our domain knowledge in these core markets as well as the Homeland Security and Cybersecurity markets. Expand international business by broadening our focus and satisfying customer needs in both core and growth markets. Continue to be a Customer focused company based on performance, relationships and solutions. Our Markets We believe that our broad mix of technologies, domain knowledge and key capabilities and our cost effective, best value solutions and their alignment with customer needs in our core defense markets, position us favorably to continue to grow and increase our market share. Our core markets also serve as a solid base from which to expand into growth areas, such as Homeland Security and Cybersecurity. We continually explore opportunities to leverage our existing capabilities, or develop or acquire additional ones, to expand into growth markets. Sensing Sensing encompasses technologies that acquire precise situational data across air, space, ground and underwater domains and then generate the information needed for effective battlespace decisions. Our sensing technologies span the full electromagnetic spectrum, from traditional radio frequency (RF) and electro optical (EO) to wideband, hyperspectral and acoustic sensors. We are focused on leveraging our sensing technologies to provide a broad range of capabilities as well as expanding into growth markets such as sensors to detect Weapons of Mass Destruction. Effects Effects achieve specific military actions or outcomes, from force protection to theater/national missile defense. The missions may be achieved by kinetic means, directed energy or information operations. Our Effects capabilities include advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, multiple sensor seekers, targeting, net enabled systems, multi dimensional effects, directed energy and cyber systems. Command, Control, Communication and Intelligence (C3I) C3I systems provide integrated real time support to decision makers on and off the battlefield, transforming raw data into actionable intelligence. We are seeking to continue to grow our market presence in C3I and also expand our knowledge management and discovery capabilities. Our C3I capabilities include situational awareness, persistent surveillance, communications, mission planning, battle management command and control, intelligence and analysis, and integrated ground solutions. 32 Table of Contents Mission Support We are focused on enabling customer success through total life cycle support that predicts customer needs, senses potential problems and proactively responds with the most appropriate solutions. Our Mission Support capabilities include technical services, system engineering, logistics, training, operations and maintenance. Our training business continues to expand and we now train in over 80 countries and in 40 different languages. Homeland Security We also intend to continue to grow our presence in the domestic and international homeland security markets, focusing on transportation security, immigration control/identity management, critical infrastructure protection, maritime security, energy security, intelligence program support, law enforcement solutions and emergency preparedness and response. Cybersecurity We continue to enhance our capabilities in the cybersecurity market. In 2010, we acquired three companies in this area: Compucat Research Pty, Trusted Computer Solutions Inc. and Technology Associates Inc. We are focused on providing cyber capabilities to the Intelligence, DoD and DHS markets as well as embedding cybersecurity in our products and in our own IT infrastructure. International Growth Because of the breadth of our offerings, our systems integration capability, the value of our solutions and our strong legacy in the international marketplace, we believe that we are well positioned to continue to grow our international business. As discussed under International Considerations, we believe demand is growing for solutions in air and missile defense, homeland security, air traffic management, precision engagement, naval systems integration and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. In addition, as coalition forces increasingly integrate military operations worldwide, we believe that our capabilities in network enabled operations will continue to be a key discriminator in these markets. In 2010, our international sales, including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, were $5.8 billion compared to $5.3 billion in 2009. In 2010, our international bookings were $4.4 billion compared to $7.6 billion in 2009. Focus on the Customer and Execution Our customer focus continues to be a critical part of our strategy underpinned by a focus on performance, relationships and solutions. Performance means being able to meet customer commitments and is ensured through strong processes, metrics and oversight. We maintain a process architecture that spans our broad programs and pursuits. It consists of processes such as Integrated Product Development System (IPDS) which assures consistency of evaluation and execution at each step in a programs life cycle. It also includes our Achieving Process Excellence (APEX), which is our SAP business system software for accounting, finance and program management; Process Re Invention Integrating Systems for Manufacturing (PRISM), which is our SAP software for manufacturing operations; and Raytheon Enterprise Supplier Assessment (RESA) tool for Supply Chain Management. These processes and systems are linked to an array of front end and back end metrics. With this structure, we are able to track results and be alerted to potential issues through numerous oversight mechanisms, including operating reviews and annual operating plan reviews. We are also continuing to build strong customer relationships by listening to customers, working with them as partners and including them on Raytheon Six SigmaTM teams to jointly improve their programs and processes. We are increasingly focused on responding to our customers changing requirements with rapid and effective solutions to real problems. In recognition of our customers constraints and priorities, we also continue to drive various cost reductions across the Company through Raytheon Six SigmaTM, lean processes, reducing cycle times and numerous other initiatives. Other Business Considerations We currently are involved in over 15,000 contracts, with no single contract accounting for more than 5% of our total net sales in 2010. We believe that our diverse portfolio of programs and capabilities is well suited to a changing defense environment. However, we face numerous challenges and risks, as discussed below and under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. 33 Table of Contents We remain dependent on the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our business. Sales to the U.S. Government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget/economic considerations, changing defense requirements and political developments such as changes in Congress and the Administration. The influence of these factors could impact our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we operate in highly competitive markets. These markets are becoming increasingly more concentrated in response to the trend of certain customers awarding a smaller number of large multi service contracts. Additionally, the DoD and international customers are increasingly turning to commercial contractors for information technology and other support work. Our future success is dependent on our ability to execute our business strategies. First, we must continue to perform on existing programs, as past performance is an important selection criteria for new competitive awards. Second, we must successfully execute our growth strategies, as discussed above. In order to execute, we must be able to identify the most appropriate opportunities to leverage our capabilities and technologies, as well as emerging customer needs in these markets. We then must successfully develop, market and support new offerings and technologies for those markets which will require the investment of significant financial resources and substantial management attention. We also focus on significant changes in our estimates of contract sales, costs and profits, to assess program performance and the potential impact of such changes on our results of operations. As discussed in greater detail in Critical Accounting Estimates our method of accounting for our contracts requires that we estimate contract revenues and costs. Due to the size, length of time and nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, our estimates are complicated and subject to many variables. We review our contract estimates periodically to assess whether revisions are warranted and make revisions and adjustments to our estimates in the ordinary course. Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. In addition, given our number of contracts and our accounting methods, we may recognize changes in multiple contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be significant, but that result, on a net basis, in no impact on our results of operations. Alternatively, we may recognize changes in numerous contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be immaterial, but that result, collectively, in a significant change to our results of operations. FINANCIAL SUMMARY We use the following key financial performance measures to manage our business on a consolidated basis and by business segment and to monitor and assess our results of operations: Bookings a forward looking metric that measures the value of new contracts awarded to us during the year. Net Sales a growth metric that measures our revenue for the current year. Operating Income a measure of our profit from continuing operations for the year, before non operating expenses, net and taxes. Operating Margin a measure of our operating income as a percentage of total net sales. We also focus on earnings per share (EPS), including Adjusted EPS, and measures to assess our cash generation and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital such as free cash flow (FCF) and return on invested capital (ROIC). Considered together, we believe these metrics are strong indicators of our overall performance and our ability to create shareholder value. We feel these measures are balanced among long term and short term performance, growth and efficiency. We use these and other performance metrics for executive compensation purposes. In addition, we maintain a strong focus on program execution and the prudent management of capital and investments in order to maximize operating income and cash and to continue to improve ROIC. We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases. Bookings were $24.4 billion, $25.1 billion and $26.8 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively resulting in backlog of $34.6 billion, $36.9 billion and $38.9 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Backlog represents the 34 Table of Contents dollar value of contracts awarded for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. We therefore discuss changes in backlog, including any significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portion of our contracts. As described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 64, in the second quarter of 2010, RSL was notified of its termination on the UK Border Agency program, which resulted in a net backlog adjustment of $556 million at IIS. In the second quarter of 2009, Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI), a developmental program with the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), was terminated for convenience, which resulted in a net backlog adjustment of approximately $2.4 billion at MS. The program was cancelled by the MDA due to a change in missile defense priorities. Total net sales were $25.2 billion, $24.9 billion and $23.2 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating income was $2.6 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating margin was 10.4%, 12.2% and 11.3% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in operating income was a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, described below in Critical Accounting Estimates, of $230 million of expense, $27 million of income and $123 million of expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $1.9 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.0 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. A discussion of our results follows below in Consolidated Results of Operations; Segment Results; Financial Condition and Liquidity; and Capital Resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe the estimates set forth below may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application than our other accounting estimates and represent the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe our judgments related to these accounting estimates are appropriate. However, if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from the amounts recorded. Revenue Recognition We determine the appropriate method by which we recognize revenue by analyzing the type, terms and conditions of each contract or arrangement entered into with our customers. The significant estimates we consider in recognizing revenue for the types of revenue generating activities in which we are involved are described below. We classify contract revenues as product or service according to the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts unless the contract can clearly be split between product and service. We define service revenue as revenue from activities which are not associated with the design, development or production of tangible assets, the delivery of software code or a specific capability. Our services sales are primarily related to our TS operating segment. Percentage of Completion Accounting We account for our long term contracts associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, such as certain cost plus service contracts, using the percentage of completion accounting method. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the long term contract. The selection of the method by which to measure such progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Our analysis of these contracts also contemplates whether contracts should be combined or segmented. The combination of two or more contracts requires significant judgment in determining whether the intent of entering into the contracts was effectively to enter into a single project, which should be combined to reflect an overall profit rate. Additionally, judgment is involved in determining whether a single contract or group of contracts may be segmented based on how the contract was negotiated and the performance criteria. The decision to combine a group of contracts or 35 Table of Contents segment a contract could change the amount of revenue and gross profit recorded in a given period had consideration not been given to these factors. We combine closely related contracts when all the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. Similarly, we may segment a project, which may consist of a single contract or a group of contracts, with varying rates of profitability, only if all the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. We generally use the cost to cost measure of progress for all our long term contracts unless we believe another method more clearly measures progress towards completion of the contract. Under the cost to cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the contract. Contract costs include material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. Revenues, including estimated earned fees or profits, are recorded as costs are incurred. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. Management must make various assumptions and estimates related to contract deliverables including design requirements, performance of subcontractors, cost and availability of materials, productivity and manufacturing efficiency and labor availability. These estimates also include the estimated cost of satisfying our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset obligations required under certain contracts. Incentive and award fees are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer or upon achievement of certain program milestones or cost targets. Incentive and award fees, as well as penalties or other damages related to contract performance, are considered in estimating profit rates. Estimates of award fees are based on actual awards and anticipated performance, which may include the performance of subcontractor or partners depending upon the individual contract requirements. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. Such incentives and penalties are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Our claims on contracts are recorded only if it is probable the claim will result in additional contract revenue and the amounts can be reliably estimated. We have a standard quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of our significant contracts. As part of this process, management reviews include, but are not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. Based on this analysis, any adjustments to net sales, costs of sales and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. Changes in estimates of net sales, costs of sales and the related impact to operating income are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period the loss is determined. Other Revenue Methods To a much lesser extent, we enter into contracts that are not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services. Revenue under such contracts is generally recognized upon delivery or as the service is performed. Revenue on contracts to sell software is recognized when evidence of an arrangement exists, the software has been delivered and accepted by the customer, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. Revenue from non software license fees is recognized over the expected life of the continued involvement with the customer. Royalty revenue is recognized when earned. Revenue generated from fixed price service contracts not associated with the design, development, manufacture or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment is recognized as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, our price is fixed or determinable, and we have determined collectability is reasonably assured. We apply the separation guidance under GAAP for contracts with multiple deliverables. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables should be divided into more than one unit of accounting. For contracts with more than one unit of accounting, we recognize revenue for each deliverable based on the revenue recognition policies described above. Other Considerations The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost based pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). The FAR provide guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices 36 Table of Contents for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs are unallowable. In addition, we may enter into agreements with the U.S. Government that address the allowability and allocation of costs to contracts for specific matters. Certain costs incurred in the performance of our U.S. Government contracts are required to be recorded under GAAP but are not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs are deferred and primarily include a portion of our environmental expenses, asset retirement obligations, deferred state income tax, workers compensation and certain other accruals. These costs are allocated to contracts when they are paid or otherwise agreed. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires us to make assumptions about the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. If the level of backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs are allocated to our contracts as allowed costs based upon the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). The CAS requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit costs differ from the Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) requirements under GAAP. Given the inability to match with reasonable certainty individual expense and income items between the CAS and FAS requirements to determine specific recoverability, we have not estimated the incremental FAS income or expense to be recoverable under our expected future contract activity, and therefore did not defer any FAS expense for pension and other postretirement benefit plans in 2007 2009. This resulted in $230 million of expense in 2010, $27 million of income in 2009, and $123 million of expense in 2008, reflected in our results of operations for the difference between CAS and FAS requirements for our pension plans in those years. Pension Costs We have pension plans covering the majority of our employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. We must calculate our pension costs under both CAS and FAS requirements under GAAP. The calculations under CAS and FAS require judgment. CAS prescribes the allocation to and recovery of pension costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services and the methodology to determine such costs. GAAP outlines the methodology used to determine pension expense or income for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for pension costs and its calculation methodology differ from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use long term assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of pension cost. In addition, the cash funding requirements for our pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). ERISA funding requirements use a third and different method to determine funding requirements, which is primarily based on the years expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. Effective January 1, 2011, we are subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), which amended ERISA. Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven year period as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of each year. Due to the foregoing differences in requirements and calculation methodologies, our FAS pension expense or income is not indicative of the funding requirements or amount of government recovery. Additionally, the recognition of pension costs for government contractors under the CAS rules is required to be harmonized with the PPA. On May 10, 2010, the CAS Pension Harmonization Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) was published in the Federal Register with a 60 day comment period. The NPRM is the third step of a four step statutory process to implement a final CAS standard (Harmonization Rule) related to the recognition of pension costs for government contractors. Based upon the feedback received during the comment period, the CAS Board will either issue the final rule or alternatively reissue the NPRM. We expect that the final rule would increase our future CAS recovery amount and decrease the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. We record CAS expense in the results of our business segments. Due to the differences between FAS and CAS amounts, we also present the difference between FAS and CAS expense, referred to as our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, as a separate line item in our segment results. This effectively increases or decreases the amount of total pension expense in our results of operations so such amount is equal to the FAS expense amount under GAAP. Due to the foregoing differences in requirements and calculation methodologies, our FAS pension expense or income is not necessarily indicative of the funding requirements or amount of government recovery. 37 Table of Contents The assumptions in the calculations of our FAS expense and CAS expense, which involve significant judgment, are described below. FAS Expense Our long term return on plan assets (ROA) and discount rate assumptions are the key variables in determining pension expense or income and the funded status of our pension plans under GAAP. The long term ROA represents the average rate of earnings expected over the long term on the assets invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. We employ a building block approach in determining the long term ROA assumption. Historical markets are studied and long term relationships between equities and fixed income are assessed. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before long term capital market assumptions are determined. The long term ROA assumption is also established giving consideration to investment diversification, rebalancing and active management of the investment portfolio. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed periodically to assess reasonableness and appropriateness. The investment policy asset allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans, as set by the Companys Investment Committee, for the year ended December 31, 2010 were as follows: Asset Category U.S. equities 25% 40% International equities 15% 30% Fixed income securities 25% 40% Cash and cash equivalents 3% 15% Other (including private equity and real estate) 0% 20% During 2010, the Investment Committee modified the investment policy allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans based upon the most recent periodic asset allocation study and in consideration of current market conditions. In validating the 2010 long term ROA assumption, we also reviewed our pension plan asset performance since 1986. Our average actual annual rate of return since 1986 has exceeded our estimated 8.75% assumed annual return. Based upon these analyses and our internal investing targets, we determined our long term ROA assumption for our domestic pension plans in 2010 was 8.75%, consistent with our 2009 assumption. Our domestic pension plans actual rates of return were approximately 11%, 17% and (26%) for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The difference between the actual rate of return and our long term ROA assumption is included in deferred losses as described below. If we significantly change our long term investment allocation or strategy, then our long term ROA assumption could change. The long term ROA assumptions for foreign pension benefit plans are based on the asset allocations and the economic environment prevailing in the locations where the pension plans reside. Foreign pension assets do not make up a significant portion of the total assets for all of our pension plans. The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate assumption is determined by using a theoretical bond portfolio model consisting of bonds AA rated or better by Moodys for which the timing and amount of cash flows approximate the estimated benefit payments of our pension plans. The discount rate assumption for our domestic pension plans at December 31, 2010 is 5.75%, compared to the December 31, 2009 discount rate of 6.25% as a result of the bond environment at December 31, 2010. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the long term ROA and the discount rate assumptions would have had the following approximate impacts on 2010 pension results: (In millions) Change in assumption used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the year ended December 31, 2010 Discount rate $ 49 Long term ROA 34 Change in assumption used to determine benefit obligations for the year ended December 31, 2010 Discount rate $ 510 38 Table of Contents CAS Expense In addition to providing the methodology for calculating pension costs, CAS also prescribes the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for pension costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. The key drivers of CAS pension expense include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans, and our long term ROA assumption. Unlike FAS, CAS requires the discount rate to be consistent with the long term ROA assumption, which changes infrequently given its long term nature. As a result, changes in bond or other interest rates generally do not impact CAS. In addition, unlike FAS, we can only allocate pension costs for a plan under CAS until such plan is fully funded as determined under CAS requirements. When the estimated future CAS pension costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our plan assets, the estimated CAS cost to be allocated to our contracts in the future increases. Other FAS and CAS Considerations On an annual basis, at December 31st, we update our estimate of future FAS and CAS pension expense based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. Other variables that can impact the pension plans funded status and FAS and CAS income or expense include demographic experience such as the expected rates of salary increase, retirement age, turnover and mortality. In addition, certain pension plans provide a lump sum form of benefit that varies based upon externally determined interest rates. Assumptions for these variables are set at the beginning of the year, and are based on actual and projected plan experience. On a periodic basis, generally planned annually in the third quarter, we update our actuarial estimate of the unfunded projected benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS with final census data from the end of the prior year. The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 FAS expense $ (896 ) $ (646 ) $ (524 ) CAS expense 666 673 401 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment $ (230 ) $ 27 $ (123 ) As described above, a key driver of the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years, and are amortized under CAS over a 15 year period. In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly. The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $257 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven by a $250 million increase in our FAS expense. The $250 million increase in our FAS expense was driven primarily by the continued recognition of the 2008 losses in the market related value of assets, which had an impact of approximately $260 million. Our CAS expense decreased $7 million as a result of actual versus expected asset and liability experience. The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $150 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was driven by a $272 million increase in our CAS expense. The $272 million increase in our CAS expense was driven primarily by negative asset returns in 2008, which caused certain plans to no longer be fully funded under CAS and had an impact of $287 million. Our FAS expense also increased by $122 million. The primary components of the change in FAS expense included an increase of $297 million due to the lower than expected return on pension assets during 2008, partially offset by a decrease of $106 million due to the expected return on our discretionary cash contribution to our 39 Table of Contents plans in 2008 as well as the expected return on the expected cash contributions in 2009. In addition, the FAS expense decreased by $47 million due to the recognition of previous historical asset returns which were greater than the expected return. For 2011, we currently expect our FAS expense will increase more than our CAS expense, which will increase the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. We expect the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to be approximately $370 million of expense driven by the lower discount rate environment and the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, described above, of the net unrecognized liability, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns. This expected increase in FAS expense in excess of CAS expense is subject to our annual update, generally planned in the third quarter, of our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS for final 2010 census data and does not include any potential change for the Harmonization Rule. After 2011, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is more difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2010 and without any adjustment for the Harmonization Rule, we would expect our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to decline as CAS continues to recognize the market related value of the 2008 asset losses through 2013 which FAS will have fully recognized through 2011. The pension and other postretirement plans investments are stated at fair value. Investments in equity securities (common and preferred) are valued at the last reported sales price when an active market exists. Investments in fixed income securities are generally valued using methods based upon market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities which are generally recognized by institutional traders. Investments in private equity funds, hedge funds and private real estate funds are estimated at fair market value which primarily utilizes net asset values reported by the investment manager. The pension investment team reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements and additional pricing information to evaluate the net asset values. For the very limited group of securities and other assets for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. In addition, we had $7.9 billion and $7.5 billion of deferred losses (pre tax) in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, composed primarily of differences between actual and expected asset returns, changes in discount rates, changes in plan provisions and differences between actual and assumed demographic experience. The $0.4 billion increase in 2010 was driven primarily by the decrease in the discount rate from 6.25% at December 31, 2009 to 5.75% at December 31, 2010, partially offset by actual asset returns which exceeded our expected return and amortization of previous deferred losses in 2009 pension expense. To the extent we continue to experience such differences between these items, our funded status and related accrued retiree benefit obligation will change. Changes to our accrued retiree benefit obligation are initially reflected as a reduction to other comprehensive income. The deferred losses are amortized and included in future pension expense over the average employee service period of approximately 11 years. Impairment of Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually on the first day of the fourth quarter and in any interim period in which circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, the loss of significant business, significant decreases in federal government appropriations or funding for our contracts, or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. No events occurred during the periods presented that indicated the existence of an impairment with respect to our goodwill related to our continuing operations. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model based on our most recent long range plan, and compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. We discount the cash flow forecasts using the weighted average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. The weighted average cost of capital is comprised of the estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly available data for peer companies, plus an equity risk premium related to specific company risk factors, and the after tax rate of return on debt, weighted at the relative values of the estimated debt and equity for the industry. Preparation of forecasts for use in the long range plan and the selection of the discount rate involve significant judgments that we base primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements and general market 40 Table of Contents conditions. Significant changes in these forecasts or the discount rate selected could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. The combined estimated fair value of all of our reporting units from our DCF model often results in a premium over our market capitalization, commonly referred to as a control premium. We believe our control premium is reasonable based upon historic data of premiums paid on actual transactions within our industry. When available and as appropriate, we also use comparative market multiples to corroborate our DCF model results. There was no indication of goodwill impairment as a result of our 2010 impairment analysis. The fair values of each of our reporting units exceeded their respective net book values, including goodwill. Based upon our 2010 impairment analysis, the reporting unit that was closest to impairment had a fair value in excess of net book value, including goodwill, of more than 20%. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the future, it could materially affect our results of operations. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Selected consolidated results were as follows: % of Total Net Sales (In millions, except percentages and per share data) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Net sales Products $ 21,386 $ 21,761 $ 20,923 84.9 % 87.5 % 90.3 % Services 3,797 3,120 2,251 15.1 % 12.5 % 9.7 % Total net sales 25,183 24,881 23,174 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating expenses Cost of sales Cost of sales products 17,022 17,071 16,570 67.6 % 68.6 % 71.5 % Cost of sales services 3,281 2,676 1,919 13.0 % 10.8 % 8.3 % Total Cost of sales 20,303 19,747 18,489 80.6 % 79.4 % 79.8 % Administrative and selling expenses 1,648 1,527 1,548 6.5 % 6.1 % 6.7 % Research and development expenses 625 565 517 2.5 % 2.3 % 2.2 % Total operating expenses 22,576 21,839 20,554 89.6 % 87.8 % 88.7 % Operating income 2,607 3,042 2,620 10.4 % 12.2 % 11.3 % Non operating (income) expense Interest expense 126 123 129 0.5 % 0.5 % 0.6 % Interest income (16 ) (14 ) (64 ) (0.1 )% (0.1 )% (0.3 )% Other (income) expense 65 3 33 0.3 % % 0.1 % Non operating (income) expense, net 175 112 98 0.7 % 0.5 % 0.4 % Federal and foreign income taxes 589 953 824 2.3 % 3.8 % 3.6 % Income from continuing operations 1,843 1,977 1,698 7.3 % 7.9 % 7.3 % Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 36 (1 ) (2 ) 0.1 % % % Net income 1,879 1,976 1,696 7.5 % 7.9 % 7.3 % Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries 39 41 24 0.2 % 0.2 % 0.1 % Net income attributable to Raytheon Company $ 1,840 $ 1,935 $ 1,672 7.3 % 7.8 % 7.2 % Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders $ 4.79 $ 4.89 $ 3.93 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders 0.10 (0.01 ) Diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders 4.88 4.89 3.92 Total Net Sales The increase in total net sales of $302 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher external net sales of $282 million at TS, $273 million at SAS and $134 million at MS, partially offset by lower external net sales of $442 million at IIS. The increase in external net sales at TS was primarily due to higher net sales from growth on TS training programs. The increase in external net sales at SAS was primarily due to higher volume, as planned, as work increased on 41 Table of Contents certain classified business. The increase in external net sales at MS was primarily due to higher net sales on Standard Missile 3 and the Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missile (AMRAAM) program. The decrease in external net sales at IIS was primarily due to $385 million of lower net sales on a UK Border Agency Program, on which RSL was notified of its termination in the second quarter of 2010 (UK Border Agency Program), as described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 64, driven principally by the $316 million adjustment recorded in the second quarter of 2010 from a change in our estimated revenue and costs. The decrease in product net sales of $375 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to lower external product net sales of $576 million at IIS primarily due to lower net sales on the UK Border Agency Program, described above, partially offset by higher external product net sales of $179 million at SAS and $137 million at MS. The increase in service net sales of $677 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher external service net sales of $312 million at TS, principally due to higher net sales from growth on TS programs, $144 million at NCS and $136 million at IIS. The increase in total net sales of $1,707 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to higher external net sales of $550 million at TS, $413 million at IDS, $286 million at SAS and $210 million at NCS. The increase in external net sales at TS was primarily due to higher volume on training programs. The increase in IDS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on Patriot programs. The increase in SAS external net sales was primarily due to higher volume on certain classified business and international airborne tactical radar programs. The increase in external net sales at NCS was primarily due to higher volume across various production programs, primarily certain U.S. Army programs. The increase in product net sales of $838 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the higher external product sales of $261 million at IDS, $252 million at SAS, $176 million at NCS and $142 million at MS. The increase in service net sales of $869 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the higher external service sales of $607 million at TS and $152 million at IDS. Sales to the U.S. DoD were 85%, 84% and 83% of total net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to the U.S. Government were 88% of total net sales in 2010 and 2009 and 87% of total net sales in 2008. Included in both DoD and U.S. Government sales were foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $3.3 billion, $2.8 billion and $1.8 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As described above in Industry Considerations, U.S. defense spending levels are difficult to predict due to numerous factors, including U.S. Government budget appropriation decisions and geo political events and macroeconomic conditions. Total international sales, including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, were $5.8 billion or 23% of total net sales, $5.3 billion or 21% of total net sales and $4.6 billion or 20% of total net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cost of Sales The increase in cost of sales of $556 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $299 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below, and higher expense of $257 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment described below in Segment Results. The increase in cost of sales of $1,258 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $1,408 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below, offset by lower expense of $150 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment described below in Segment Results. The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, which was $230 million of expense, $27 million of income and $123 million of expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is reported as a separate line item in our segment results. The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment represents the difference between our pension expense or income under FAS in accordance with GAAP and our pension expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. For more information on the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, see our discussion below in Segment Results. Administrative and Selling Expenses Administrative and selling expenses remained relatively consistent as a percentage of sales in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease in administrative and selling expenses of $21 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower state tax payments driven by the utilization of overpayment credits from 2008. The provision for state income taxes can generally be recovered through the pricing of products and services to the U.S. Government. Net state income taxes allocated to our contracts were $59 million, $25 million and $122 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 42 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses remained relatively consistent as a percent of total net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008. Total Operating Expenses The increase in total operating expenses of $737 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $299 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Net Sales and below in Segment Results, and higher expense of $257 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment described below in Segment Results. The increase in total operating expenses of $1,285 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $1,435 million of increased costs, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Net Sales and in Segment Results below, offset by lower expense of $150 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment described below in Segment Results. Operating Income The decrease in operating income of $435 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $419 million impact of the UK Border Agency Program, as described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 64, driven principally by the $395 million adjustment recorded in the second quarter of 2010 from a change in our estimated revenue and costs and higher expense of $257 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. These decreases were partially offset by improved program performance, which had approximately a $140 million impact on operating income and increased volume, which had approximately a $90 million impact on operating income, the primary drivers of which are described below in Segment Results. The increase in operating income of $422 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower expense of $150 million related to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment and increased volume, which had an impact of approximately $150 million and $69 million due to the increase in estimated future CAS pension costs at December 31, 2008 described below in Segment Results. For a discussion of the drivers of individual business operating income and related margin, see Segment Results below. Non Operating Expense, Net The increase in non operating expense, net of $63 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $73 million pretax charge associated with the make whole provision on the early repurchase of long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to the $22 million pretax charge associated with the make whole provision on the early repurchase of long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2009, and $11 million of lower year over year returns on investments held in rabbi trusts associated with certain of our non qualified deferred compensation plans due to net gains of $17 million in 2010 compared to net gains of $28 million in 2009. The increase in non operating expense, net of $14 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the decrease in interest income of $50 million which was principally due to a decrease in interest rates driven by a shift in our strategy to invest more of our cash in U.S. Treasury bills, partially offset by a decrease of $30 million in other expense, net. The decrease in other expense, net was primarily due to a $58 million favorable year over year change in the fair value of investments held in rabbi trusts associated with certain of our non qualified deferred compensation plans due to net gains of $28 million in 2009 compared to net losses of $30 million in 2008, partially offset by a $22 million pretax charge associated with the make whole provision on early repurchase of long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2009. Federal and Foreign Income Taxes Our effective tax rate, which is used to determine federal and foreign income tax expense, differs from the U.S. statutory rate due to the following: 2010 2009 2008 Statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % Research and development tax credit 1.1 % 0.9 % 1.0 % Tax settlements and refund claims 8.0 % 0.9 % 0.5 % Domestic manufacturing deduction benefit 1.7 % 0.9 % 0.5 % Other items, net % 0.2 % 0.3 % Effective tax rate 24.2 % 32.5 % 32.7 % 43 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate reflects the 35% U.S. statutory rate adjusted for various permanent differences between book and tax reporting. Our effective tax rate in 2010 was 8.3% lower than 2009 primarily due to the receipt of final approval from the IRS and the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation in the third quarter of 2010 of the IRS examination of our tax returns for the 1998 2005 tax years (Tax Settlement), which decreased our tax expense from continuing operations by $170 million in 2010, partially offset by the change in mix of jurisdictional income, as a result of the UK Border Agency Program, primarily reflected in other items, net, in the table above. Our effective tax rate in 2009 was 0.2% lower than 2008 primarily due to increased manufacturing tax benefits and certain refund claims, partially offset by various non deductible expenses. Our effective tax rate in 2010 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the Tax Settlement. Our effective tax rate in 2009 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to various permanent differences between book and tax reporting, including domestic manufacturing tax benefits, tax benefits related to certain refund claims, including $26 million of benefits primarily related to certain U.S. and foreign research tax incentives and employee stock ownership plan dividend deductions, partially offset by various non deductible expenses. The effective tax rate in 2008 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to manufacturing tax benefits, employee stock ownership plan dividend deductions and tax benefits related to certain refund claims, including $13 million of benefits primarily related to a foreign research incentive refund claim, partially offset by various non deductible expenses. The decrease in federal and foreign income taxes of $364 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the Tax Settlement described above, and lower income from continuing operations before taxes. The increase in federal and foreign income taxes of $129 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to our higher income from continuing operations before taxes. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations was $1,843 million, $1,977 million and $1,698 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in income from continuing operations of $134 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the $435 million decrease in operating income and the $63 million increase in non operating expenses, net, partially offset by a $364 million decrease in federal and foreign income taxes as described above. The increase in income from continuing operations of $279 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the $422 million increase in operating income. Partially offset by a $129 million increase in federal and foreign income taxes as described above. Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The increase in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $37 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the Tax Settlement, described above, which included an $89 million decrease in tax expense from discontinued operations, primarily related to our previous disposition of Raytheon Engineers and Constructors. The increase was partially offset by a $39 million, net of the federal tax benefit, excise tax assessment related to our previous disposition of Flight Options LLC (Flight Options), described below in Discontinued Operations. Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, was ($1) million and ($2) million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net Income Net income was $1,879 million, 1,976 million and $1,696 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in net income of $97 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the decrease in income from continuing operations offset by the increase in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, described above. The increase in net income of $280 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations as described above. Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was $4.79 per diluted share on 377.0 million average shares outstanding in 2010, $4.89 per diluted share on 395.7 million average shares outstanding in 2009 and $3.93 per diluted share on 426.5 million average shares outstanding in 2008. The decrease in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.10 in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $0.75 per share impact of the adjustment from a 44 Table of Contents change in our estimated revenue and costs on the UK Border Agency Program, described above, and the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, which had an impact of $0.44. These decreases were partially offset by the Tax Settlement, described above, which had an impact of $0.45, operational improvements (volume, mix and program performance), which had an impact of $0.37 and a decrease in average shares outstanding, which had an impact of $0.23. The increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.96 in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in average shares outstanding, which had an impact of $0.35, operational improvements (volume, mix and program performance), which had an impact of $0.28 and the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, which had an impact of $0.23 due to the increase in income from continuing operations. The decrease in average diluted shares outstanding in 2010 and 2009 was primarily due to the repurchase of 29.0 million and 25.8 million shares in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was $0.10 in 2010, had no impact per diluted share in 2009 and was $(0.01) per diluted share in 2008. The increase in diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.10 in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the Tax Settlement, described above, partially offset by the excise tax assessment related to our previous disposition of Flight Options, described below in Discontinued Operations. Diluted Earnings per Share Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders Diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was $4.88 per diluted share in 2010, $4.89 per diluted share in 2009 and $3.92 per diluted share in 2008. The decrease in diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.01 in 2010 compared to 2009 was due to decrease in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders, partially offset by the increase in diluted Earnings (Loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders described above. The increase in diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.97 in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the increase in net income. 45 Table of Contents Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS is diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders excluding the earnings per share impact of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment and, from time to time, certain other items. In addition to the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, our 2010 Adjusted EPS also excludes the earnings per share impact of the Tax Settlement as a result of our receipt of final approval from the IRS and the U.S Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation of the IRS examination of our tax returns for the 1998 2005 tax years, the earnings per share impact of the UK Border Agency Program, and the make whole provision on the early repurchase of debt, all previously described, and the impact of the acceleration of deferred gains related to the terminated interest rate swaps on the retired debt. Our 2008 Adjusted EPS also excludes the earnings per share impact of the unfavorable adjustment due to the impact of pension investment returns on existing contracts in 2008. We are providing Adjusted EPS because management uses it for the purpose of evaluating and forecasting the Companys financial performance and believes that it provides additional insights into the Companys underlying business performance. We believe it allows investors to benefit from being able to assess our operating performance in the context of how our principal customer, the U.S. Government, allows us to recover pension costs and to better compare our operating performance to others in the industry on that same basis. Adjusted EPS is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for financial performance in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EPS may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner and the amounts presented may not recalculate directly due to rounding. Adjusted EPS was as follows: 2010 2009 2008 Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders $ 4.79 $ 4.89 $ 3.93 Earnings per share impact of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment 0.40 (0.04 ) 0.19 Earnings per share impact of the unfavorable adjustment due to the impact of pension investment returns on existing contracts 0.11 Earnings per share impact of the UK Border Agency Program 0.75 Earnings per share impact of the Tax Settlement (0.45 ) Earnings per share impact of the early retirement of debt charges 0.13 0.04 Earnings per share impact of the acceleration of deferred gains related to terminated interest rate swaps on retired debt (0.03 ) (0.01 ) Adjusted EPS $ 5.58 $ 4.87 $ 4.22 SEGMENT RESULTS We report our results in the following segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS), Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) and Technical Services (TS). The following provides some context for viewing our segment performance through the eyes of management. Given the nature of our business, bookings, net sales and operating income (including operating margin percentage), which we disclose and discuss at the segment level, are most relevant to an understanding of managements view of our segment performance, and often these measures have significant interrelated effects as described below. In addition, we disclose and discuss backlog, which represents future sales that we expect to recognize over the contract period, which is generally the next several years. Bookings: We disclose the amount of bookings for each segment and notable contract awards. Bookings generally represent the dollar value of new contracts awarded to us during the reporting period and include firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated. We believe bookings are an important measure of future performance and are an indicator of potential future changes in net sales, since we cannot record revenues under a new contract without first having a booking in the current or preceding period (i.e., a contract award). Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses: We generally express changes in net sales in terms of volume. Volume generally refers to increases or decreases in revenues related to varying amounts of total operating expenses, which are comprised of cost of sales, administrative and selling expenses and research and development expenses, incurred on individual contracts (i.e., from performance against contractual commitments on our bookings related to engineering, production or service activity). Therefore, we discuss volume changes attributable principally to individual programs unless there is a discrete event (e.g., a major contract termination, natural disaster or major labor strike, etc.), or some 46 Table of Contents other unusual item that has a material effect on changes in a segments volume for a reported period. Due to the nature of our contracts, the amount of costs incurred and related revenues will naturally fluctuate over the life of the contracts. As a result, in any reporting period, the changes in volume on numerous contracts are likely to be due to normal fluctuations in our production activity or service levels. Operating Income (and the related operating margin percentage): We generally express changes in segment operating income in terms of volume, changes in program performance or changes in contract mix. Changes in volume discussed in net sales typically drive corresponding changes in our operating income based on the profit rate for a particular contract. Changes in program performance typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion that reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. Changes in contract mix refer to changes in operating margin due to a change in the relative volume of contracts with higher or lower fee rates such that the overall average margin rate for the segment changes. Because each segment has thousands of contracts, in any reporting period, changes in operating income and margin are likely to be due to normal changes in volume, program performance and mix on many contracts with no single change or series of related changes materially driving a segments change in operating income or operating margin percentage. Backlog: We disclose period ending backlog for each segment. Backlog represents the dollar value of contracts awarded for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. We therefore discuss changes in backlog, including any significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portion of our contracts. Segment financial results were as follows: Total Net Sales (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Integrated Defense Systems $ 5,470 $ 5,525 $ 5,148 Intelligence and Information Systems 2,757 3,204 3,132 Missile Systems 5,732 5,561 5,408 Network Centric Systems 4,918 4,822 4,510 Space and Airborne Systems 4,830 4,582 4,280 Technical Services 3,472 3,161 2,601 Corporate and Eliminations (1,996 ) (1,974 ) (1,905 ) Total $ 25,183 $ 24,881 $ 23,174 Operating Income (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Integrated Defense Systems $ 879 $ 859 $ 870 Intelligence and Information Systems (150 ) 259 253 Missile Systems 654 604 584 Network Centric Systems 701 674 575 Space and Airborne Systems 686 647 569 Technical Services 300 215 174 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment (230 ) 27 (123 ) Corporate and Eliminations (233 ) (243 ) (282 ) Total $ 2,607 $ 3,042 $ 2,620 Bookings (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Integrated Defense Systems $ 3,269 $ 5,969 $ 5,933 Intelligence and Information Systems 3,709 2,529 3,204 Missile Systems 6,485 5,548 6,043 Network Centric Systems 4,034 3,933 4,938 Space and Airborne Systems 4,321 4,446 3,927 Technical Services 2,631 2,633 2,753 Corporate 22 Total $ 24,449 $ 25,058 $ 26,820 47 Table of Contents Included in bookings were international bookings of $4,371 million, $7,634 million and $7,564 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which included foreign military bookings through the U.S. Government. International bookings amounted to 18%, 30% and 28% of total bookings in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. International bookings in 2010 were affected by the timing of international awards. Classified bookings were 16%, 14% and 13% of total bookings in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We record bookings for not to exceed contract awards based on a reasonable estimate of expected contract definitization, which will generally not be less than 75% of the award. We subsequently adjust bookings to reflect the actual amounts definitized, or, when prior to definitization, when facts and circumstances indicate our previous estimate is no longer reasonable. The timing of awards that may cover multiple fiscal years influences bookings in each year. Bookings exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (i.e., indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) type contracts), and are reduced for contract cancellations and terminations of bookings recognized in the current year. We reflect contract cancellations and terminations from prior year bookings, as well as the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, directly as an adjustment to backlog in the period in which the cancellation or termination occurs and the impact is determinable. Funded Backlog Total Backlog Backlog at December 31 (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Integrated Defense Systems $ 6,433 $ 5,595 $ 4,802 $ 8,473 $ 10,665 $ 9,883 Intelligence and Information Systems 725 1,588 1,890 4,319 4,360 5,137 Missile Systems 6,385 6,454 6,082 8,212 7,657 9,937 Network Centric Systems 3,740 4,389 4,593 4,912 5,501 5,733 Space and Airborne Systems 3,266 3,402 2,731 5,981 5,921 5,442 Technical Services 2,083 2,051 1,888 2,654 2,773 2,752 Total $ 22,632 $ 23,479 $ 21,986 $ 34,551 $ 36,877 $ 38,884 Total backlog includes both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated and or contractually obligated by the customer). Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g., IDIQ). Both funded and unfunded backlog are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. In the second quarter of 2010, IIS recorded a net backlog adjustment of $556 million as a result of the UK Border Agency Program. In the second quarter of 2009, Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI), a developmental program with the MDA, was terminated for convenience, which resulted in a net backlog adjustment of approximately $2.4 billion at MS. The program was cancelled by the U.S. Missile Defense Agency (MDA) due to a change in missile defense priorities. Integrated Defense Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010comparedto 2009 2009comparedto 2008 Total Net Sales $ 5,470 $ 5,525 $ 5,148 1.0 % 7.3 % Total Operating Expenses 4,591 4,666 4,278 1.6 % 9.1 % Operating Income 879 859 870 2.3 % 1.3 % Operating Margin 16.1 % 15.5 % 16.9 % Bookings $ 3,269 $ 5,969 $ 5,933 45.2 % 0.6 % Total Backlog 8,473 10,665 9,883 20.6 % 7.9 % IDS is a leader in global capabilities integration, providing affordable, integrated solutions to a broad international and domestic customer base. IDS leverages its core domain knowledge and capabilities in sensors, command, control and communication (C3), persistent surveillance/intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), effects and mission support, to provide integrated naval, air and missile defense and civil security response solutions. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army and Air Force, and the U.S. Missile Defense Agency (MDA), and numerous international customers. 48 Table of Contents Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The decrease in net sales of $55 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $243 million of lower net sales on various U.S. Navy programs due to scheduled completion of design and production efforts, including $175 million from the scheduled completion of certain design phases on a U.S. Navy combat systems program, and $211 million of lower net sales on two joint battlefield sensor programs, driven principally by lower volume due to the completion of scheduled program production efforts and a scheduled decrease in design and development effort. The decrease in net sales was partially offset by $383 million of higher net sales on Patriot programs, primarily due to $288 million of higher net sales driven by scheduled design and production effort on an international Patriot program awarded in the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in operating expenses of $75 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the activity in the programs described above. The increase in net sales of $377 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $660 million of higher net sales on Patriot programs principally due to $595 million of higher net sales driven by scheduled design effort on an international Patriot program awarded in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $266 million of lower net sales on various U.S. Navy programs due to scheduled completion of design and production efforts on numerous programs, including $129 million from the completion of certain design phases on a U.S. Navy combat systems program. The increase in operating expenses of $388 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $20 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in contract mix principally driven by the change in net sales described above, which had a $24 million impact on operating income. The increase in operating margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the change in contract mix described above. The decrease in operating income of $11 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a change in contract mix driven by the completion of certain international air and missile defense programs in 2008, which had an $81 million impact on operating income, partially offset by increased volume, which had a $47 million impact on operating income and $25 million from improved program performance across various programs. IDS operating income also benefited from $14 million of sales of certain licensed software in 2009 compared to $28 million in 2008. The decline in operating margin in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the change in contract mix described above. Backlog and Bookings The decrease in backlog of $2,192 million at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to lower bookings in 2010 described below. The increase in backlog of $782 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to the 2009 bookings described below. The decrease in bookings of $2,700 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher Patriot bookings in 2009. In 2010, IDS booked $400 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for an international customer, $271 million on the Zumwalt class destroyer program for the U.S. Navy, $228 million on the Aegis weapon system for the U.S. Navy, $222 million to provide engineering services support for a Patriot air and missile defense program for U.S. and international customers, $190 million for a U.S. Army/U.S. Navy Transportable Radar Surveillance (AN/TPY 2) radar for the MDA, $148 million to provide Common Contractor Logistics Support (CCLS) for the MDA, $131 million to provide Patriot Guidance Enhanced Missile Tactical (GEM T) missiles for Kuwait, and $112 million on the Air & Missile Defense Radar (AMDR) program for the U.S. Navy. Bookings in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. In 2009, IDS booked $3.2 billion to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for several domestic and international customers, including the U.S. Army, Taiwan and UAE. IDS also booked $650 million on the Zumwalt class destroyer program, $157 million to provide Finland with Surface Launched Medium Range Air to Air Missile (SL AMRAAM) systems and $150 million for Joint Land Attack Cruise Missile Defense Elevated Netted Sensor Systems (JLENS) for the U.S. Army. In 2008, IDS booked $2.5 billion to provide the Patriot Air & Missile System to the UAE and $533 million on certain contracts for the design, development and support of the Patriot System for other international customers, including $288 million for South Korea, $140 million for Kuwait and $105 million for Taiwan. IDS also booked $237 million to 49 Table of Contents provide engineering services support for Patriot air and missile defense programs and $229 million for the Rapid Aerostat Initial Deployment (RAID) program, both for the U.S. Army and $166 million for the production of torpedo kits for the U.S. Navy. Intelligence and Information Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010comparedto 2009 2009comparedto 2008 Total Net Sales $ 2,757 $ 3,204 $ 3,132 14.0 % 2.3 % Total Operating Expenses 2,907 2,945 2,879 1.3 % 2.3 % Operating Income (150 ) 259 253 157.9 % 2.4 % Operating Margin 5.4 % 8.1 % 8.1 % Bookings $ 3,709 $ 2,529 $ 3,204 46.7 % 21.1 % Total Backlog 4,319 4,360 5,137 0.9 % 15.1 % IIS is a leader in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), advanced cyber solutions, weather and environmental solutions, and information based solutions for law enforcement and homeland security. Approximately half of its business is for classified customers. Other key customers include the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD agencies, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), and the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA). Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The decrease in net sales of $447 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $385 million of lower net sales on the UK Border Agency Program driven principally by the $316 million adjustment recorded in the second quarter of 2010 from a change in our estimated revenue and costs on the UK Border Agency Program, $68 million of lower net sales on a distributed ground systems program for the U.S. Air Force principally from lower volume as a result of the planned program schedule, and $65 million of lower net sales on certain classified programs. The decrease in net sales was partially offset by $104 million of higher net sales, as a result of scheduled design and build efforts on Global Positioning System Advanced Control Segment (GPS OCX), a GPS command, control and mission capabilities program awarded in the first quarter of 2010. Operating expenses in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. The increase in net sales of $72 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $114 million of higher net sales on three major classified programs and $29 million of higher net sales on a U.S. Air Force program, principally from higher volume driven by additional task orders from expanded customer scope, partially offset by $98 million of lower net sales on an international advanced border control and security program, principally from lower volume as subcontractor work related to the initial development phase was completed in June 2009. The increase in operating expenses of $66 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. Operating Income and Margin The decrease in operating income of $409 million in 2010 compared to 2009 and the related decrease in operating margin was primarily due to $419 million of operating income impact related to the UK Border Agency Program driven by the $395 million adjustment recorded in the second quarter of 2010 from a change in our estimated revenue and costs previously described, partially offset by $16 million of improved program performance spread across numerous programs. IIS operating income was also reduced by approximately $17 million in 2010 and 2009 by certain cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments. The increase in operating income of $6 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments, which had a $12 million impact on operating income. Operating margin in 2009 remained consistent with 2008. IIS operating margin was reduced by approximately $17 million in 2009 and approximately $29 million in 2008 by certain cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments. Backlog and Bookings The decrease in backlog of $41 million at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to a $556 million net backlog adjustment on the UK Border Agency Program, recorded in the second quarter of 2010, partially offset by higher bookings in 2010 described below. The decrease in backlog of $777 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to lower 2009 bookings described below. 50 Table of Contents The increase in bookings of $1,180 million in 2010 compared to 2009 included a $901 million award on a contract to develop the next generation GPS OCX for the U.S. Air Force, a $167 million booking on a major U.S. Air Force program, $80 million on the Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) contract for NASA and $1,723 million on a number of classified contracts, including $371 million on a major classified program, compared to $1,364 million in 2009. The decrease in bookings of $675 million in 2009 was primarily due to $426 million of lower classified bookings and $154 million of lower bookings on the U.K. e Borders contract. In 2009, IIS booked $1,364 million on a number of classified contracts compared to $1,790 million in 2008. Bookings in 2009 included $148 million and $123 million on two major classified programs and $158 million on a contract to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) to the U.S. Air Force. In 2008, IIS booked $1.8 billion on a number of classified contracts, including $379 million and $271 million on two major classified programs. Missile Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010comparedto 2009 2009comparedto 2008 Total Net Sales $ 5,732 $ 5,561 $ 5,408 3.1 % 2.8 % Total Operating Expenses 5,078 4,957 4,824 2.4 % 2.8 % Operating Income 654 604 584 8.3 % 3.4 % Operating Margin 11.4 % 10.9 % 10.8 % Bookings $ 6,485 $ 5,548 $ 6,043 16.9 % 8.2 % Total Backlog 8,212 7,657 9,937 7.2 % 22.9 % MS is a premier developer and producer of missile systems for the armed forces of the U.S. and other allied nations. Leveraging its key capabilities in advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high resolution sensors, targeting, and netted systems, MS develops and supports a broad range of cutting edge weapon systems, including missiles, smart munitions, close in weapon systems, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles and directed energy effectors. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force and Marine Corps, the MDA, and the armed forces of more than 40 allied nations. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $171 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $108 million of higher net sales on the Standard Missile 3 program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled development efforts, $100 million of higher net sales on the AMRAAM program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled higher production build rates, $92 million of higher net sales on the tube launched, optically tracked, wireless guided missile program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled higher production build rates and $84 million of higher net sales on the PavewayTM program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled production efforts on an international award. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $96 million of lower net sales on a non line of sight missile program, principally from lower volume, as the program received a stop work order in the second quarter of 2010 and $82 million of lower net sales on the KEI program, which was terminated for convenience in the second quarter of 2009 as described above. The increase in operating expenses of $121 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. The increase in net sales of $153 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $76 million of higher net sales on the Standard Missile 3 program, principally from increased volume due to higher subcontractor effort related to program deliveries along with increased development efforts, $60 million of higher net sales on the Maverick Missile program due primarily to material costs resulting from international orders received in 2009, and $57 million of higher net sales related to development effort on a competitive missile program. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $71 million in lower net sales on the KEI program, which was terminated for convenience in the second quarter of 2009, as described above. The increase in operating expenses of $133 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. 51 Table of Contents Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $50 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in contract mix spread across numerous programs, with no individual or common significant driver, which had a $19 million impact on operating income, improved program performance, which had a $18 million impact on operating income, primarily due to $11 million from labor and material production efficiencies on various air weapons systems programs and increased volume, which had a $13 million impact on operating income. The increase in operating margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the contract mix and the improved program performance described above. The increase in operating income of $20 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to higher volume, which had a $12 million impact on operating income. Included in operating income for 2009 was improved program performance of $26 million on the Phalanx program primarily as a result of the implementation of value engineering change proposals (VECP), which reduced production costs, primarily from material and labor efficiencies. Operating income in 2008 included $25 million from higher award fees recognized on the Standard Missile 3 program driven by a successful flight test milestone. Operating margin in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. Backlog and Bookings The increase in backlog of $555 million at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to higher bookings in 2010. The decrease in backlog of $2,280 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to the termination for convenience of the KEI program as previously described. The 2010 bookings, which increased $937 million over 2009 included $743 million for Standard Missile 3 for the MDA and an international customer, $698 million for the production of AMRAAM for the U.S. Air Force and international customers, $675 million on a classified program, $668 million for the production of Paveway for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other international customers, $501 million for the production of Tomahawk missiles for the U.S. Navy and an international customer, $451 million for engineering and manufacturing development of Small Diameter Bomb II (SDB II) for the joint U.S. Air Force and U.S Navy program, $425 million for the production of Standard Missile 2 for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $274 million for the production of Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $271 million for the Phalanx Weapons System for the U.S. Navy, Army and international customers, $262 million for development work on the Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle program for the MDA, $209 million for the production of AIM 9X Sidewinder short range air to air missiles for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $198 million for the Javelin program for the U.S. Army and international customers, $168 million on the Miniature Air Launched Decoy (MALD) for the U.S. Air Force, Army, and Navy, $147 million for Evolved Sea Sparrow Missiles (ESSM) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $122 million for the production of TOW missiles for U.S. Army and international customers, and $114 million for the production of the Joint Stand off Weapon (JSOW) for the U.S. Navy and international customers. The decrease in bookings of $495 million in 2009 was primarily due to $318 million of awards for Standard Missile 3 for the U.S. Navy and the MDA in 2009 compared to $1.2 billion in 2008. In 2009, MS booked $645 million for AMRAAM systems for international customers and the U.S. Air Force, $514 million for the tube launched, optically tracked, wireless guided missile program for international customers and the U.S. Army, $508 million for ESSM for international customers and the U.S. Navy and $402 million for Phalanx Weapon Systems. MS also booked $384 million on Standard Missile 2 for international customers and the U.S. Navy, $318 million for Standard Missile 3 for the MDA and $294 million for Tactical Tomahawk cruise missiles for the U.S. Navy. In 2008, MS booked $1.2 billion for the production of Standard Missile 3 for the U.S. Navy and the MDA, $624 million for the production of the AMRAAM program for international customers and the U.S. Air Force, $577 million on Standard Missile Development and Production, and $478 million for the production of Tactical Tomahawk cruise missiles for the U.S. Navy. 52 Table of Contents Network Centric Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010comparedto 2009 2009comparedto 2008 Total Net Sales $ 4,918 $ 4,822 $ 4,510 2.0 % 6.9 % Total Operating Expenses 4,217 4,148 3,935 1.7 % 5.4 % Operating Income 701 674 575 4.0 % 17.2 % Operating Margin 14.3 % 14.0 % 12.7 % Bookings $ 4,034 $ 3,933 $ 4,938 2.6 % 20.4 % Total Backlog 4,912 5,501 5,733 10.7 % 4.0 % NCS is a leading provider of net centric mission solutions for federal, state and local government and civil customers. NCS leverages its capabilities in networking, sensors, command and control, and communications to develop and produce solutions for customers in key markets such as U.S. Army modernization, international and domestic homeland security, civil communications, and transportation solutions. NCS customers include the DoD and other U.S. government customers, as well as numerous international customers. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $96 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $223 million of higher net sales related to programs associated with Raytheon BBN Technologies (BBN), which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2009, primarily due to increased DoD research activities and force protection awards, and $127 million of higher net sales, as planned due to a scheduled increase in design and production efforts on a classified international program awarded in the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $144 million of lower net sales on a U.S. Army sensor program due to a planned decline in production and $81 million of lower net sales on a combat vehicle sensor program, principally from lower volume, due to a program restructuring. The increase in operating expenses of $69 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven primarily by the activity described above. The increase in net sales of $312 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $261 million of higher net sales across various production programs, primarily certain U.S. Army programs, principally from higher volume driven by increases in production to meet program delivery schedule requirements, as anticipated, as well as $112 million of higher intersegment sales related to precision mechanical products and related design engineering. The increase in net sales was also due to $53 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume on a precision approach and landing program for the U.S. Navy awarded in the third quarter of 2008 and $41 million of higher net sales related to BBN. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $144 million of lower net sales, principally from lower volume on a U.S. Army communications program that substantially completed production efforts on the initial contract, as planned, in the third quarter of 2008. The increase in operating expenses of $213 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was driven primarily by the activity described above. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $27 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to improved program performance spread across numerous programs, with no individual or common significant driver, which had an $18 million impact on operating income and increased volume, which had a $13 million impact on operating income, partially offset by a change in contract mix, which had a $4 million negative impact on operating income, driven principally by lower volume on a U.S. Army sensor program. Operating margin in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. The increase in operating income of $99 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to improved program performance on a broad range of programs of $76 million and higher volume, which had an $18 million impact on operating income. Of the $76 million in improved program performance, $29 million is attributable to the production programs described above, driven by lower estimated labor and material costs at completion from achieved production efficiencies. These production efficiencies were the result of increased production volume across these programs which allowed us to leverage existing capacity, incur lower production labor hours and experience improved yields. The remaining improved program performance included overhead cost improvement initiatives and other program 53 Table of Contents performance that was spread across numerous contracts with no other individual or common significant driver. The improvement in operating margin in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the improved program performance described above. Backlog and Bookings The decrease in backlog of $589 million at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to external sales in excess of bookings in 2010, principally within our Combat Systems product line. The decrease in backlog of $232 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to lower bookings in 2009. Bookings in 2010 remained relatively consistent with bookings in 2009. In 2010, NCS booked $254 million on the Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System (STARS) program for the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) and the DoD, $250 million for the Long Range Advanced Scout Surveillance Systems (LRAS3) program for the U.S. Army, $146 million on a command and control program for an international customer, $111 million for Horizontal Technology Integration (HTI) forward looking infrared kits for the U.S. Army, $104 million on the Navy Multiband Terminal (NMT) program for the U.S. Navy and $96 million for Improved Thermal Sight Systems (ITSS) for an international customer. The decrease in bookings of $1,005 million in 2009 was primarily due to awards for HTI forward looking infrared kits, the LRAS3, the Joint Precision Approach and Landing System (JPALS) contract and other programs in 2008 described below. In 2009, NCS booked $446 million on an international classified program, $163 million for Improved Target Acquisition Systems (ITAS), $146 million for HTI forward looking infrared kits, $127 million for a toll system replacement program, $117 million for Commanders Independent Viewers (CIV) and $107 million for the Secure Mobile Anti Jam Reliable Tactical Terminal (SMART T) program. In 2008, NCS booked $570 million to provide HTI forward looking infrared kits and $279 million for the LRAS3 contract for the U.S. Army. NCS also booked $233 million for the design and development phase of JPALS for the U.S. Navy, $231 million for the production of ITAS for the U.S. Army and Marine Corps and $115 million for the Airborne, Maritime and Fixed Site (AMF) Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) program. Space and Airborne Systems % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010comparedto 2009 2009comparedto 2008 Total Net Sales $ 4,830 $ 4,582 $ 4,280 5.4 % 7.1 % Total Operating Expenses 4,144 3,935 3,711 5.3 % 6.0 % Operating Income 686 647 569 6.0 % 13.7 % Operating Margin 14.2 % 14.1 % 13.3 % Bookings $ 4,321 $ 4,446 $ 3,927 2.8 % 13.2 % Total Backlog 5,981 5,921 5,442 1.0 % 8.8 % SAS is a leader in the design and development of integrated systems and solutions for advanced missions, including traditional and non traditional intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), precision engagement, unmanned aerial operations and space. Leveraging advanced concepts, state of the art technologies and mission systems knowledge, SAS provides electro optical/infrared sensors, airborne radars for surveillance and fire control applications, lasers, precision guidance systems, processors, electronic warfare systems and space qualified systems for civil and military applications. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army, as well as classified and international customers. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $248 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $235 million of higher net sales from higher volume, as planned, as work increased on certain classified business awarded principally in the first half of 2009, $87 million of higher net sales on a multi spectral targeting system program driven by increased planned production efforts to meet the program delivery schedule and $75 million of higher net sales from higher volume, as planned, as production work increased on an international airborne tactical radar program awarded in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $111 million of lower net sales from lower volume, as planned, as an advanced targeting program moved toward completion. The increase in operating expenses of $209 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily driven by the activity described above. 54 Table of Contents The increase in net sales of $302 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $212 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume as work increased on certain classified business awarded in the second half of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, $100 million of higher net sales, principally from higher volume on international airborne tactical radar programs driven by increased production efforts as planned to meet the program delivery schedule and $93 million of higher net sales, principally on a multi spectral targeting system program driven by increased production efforts as planned to meet the program schedule. The increase in operating expenses of $224 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily driven by the activity described above. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $39 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher volume, which had a $28 million impact on operating income, and a change in contract mix driven by higher volume on an international airborne tactical radar program, which had a $26 million impact on operating income. The increase in operating income was partially offset by the $19 million in 2009 from the favorable settlement of affirmative claims and the resolution of a contract termination described below. Operating margin in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. The increase in operating income of $78 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a change in mix from higher volume on the international tactical radar programs described above, which had a $43 million impact on operating income, increased volume, which had a $30 million impact on operating income, and $19 million from the favorable settlement of affirmative claims related to contract scope on two fixed price programs and the resolution of a contract termination claim. The improvement in operating margin in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the change in mix and favorable settlement of the affirmative claims and resolution of the contract termination claim. Backlog and Bookings Backlog remained relatively consistent at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009. The increase in backlog of $479 million at December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008 was primarily due to the 2009 awards, primarily classified, described below. Bookings in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. In 2010, SAS booked $1,106 million on a number of classified contracts, including $332 million on a major classified space program. In 2010, SAS also booked $618 million for the production of Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) radars for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, Air National Guard and international customers and $90 million for the production of Advanced Countermeasures Electronic System (ACES) for Egypt. The increase in bookings of $519 million in 2009 was primarily due to higher international and domestic tactical radar awards in 2009. In 2009, SAS booked $422 million to supply APG 63 fire control radars and support equipment for the Japan Air Self Defense Force, $295 million for the B 2 RMP and $147 million on the Integrated Sensor Is Structure (ISIS) radar program for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). SAS also booked $1,330 million on a number of classified contracts. In 2008, SAS booked $1.5 billion on a number of classified contracts. Technical Services % Change (In millions, except percentages) 2010 2009 2008 2010comparedto 2009 2009comparedto 2008 Total Net Sales $ 3,472 $ 3,161 $ 2,601 9.8 % 21.5 % Total Operating Expenses 3,172 2,946 2,427 7.7 % 21.4 % Operating Income 300 215 174 39.5 % 23.6 % Operating Margin 8.6 % 6.8 % 6.7 % Bookings $ 2,631 $ 2,633 $ 2,753 0.1 % 4.4 % Total Backlog 2,654 2,773 2,752 4.3 % 0.8 % TS provides a full spectrum of technical, scientific and professional services to defense, federal, international and commercial customers worldwide. It specializes in training, logistics, engineering services and solutions, product support and operational 55 Table of Contents support services. TS provides solutions for mission support, homeland security, space, civil aviation, counterproliferation and counterterrorism markets. Key customers include all branches of the U.S. Armed Forces, as well as the DHS, NASA, FAA, Department of Energy, Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) and international governments. Total Net Sales and Total Operating Expenses The increase in net sales of $311 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $232 million of higher net sales from growth on TS training programs, principally domestic and foreign training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities due to an increase in customer determined activity levels, and $53 million of higher net sales from programs with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), driven primarily by system integration efforts on a program awarded in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in operating expenses of $226 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. The increase in net sales of $560 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $589 million of higher net sales from growth on TS training programs, principally domestic and foreign training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities, which began significant efforts in May 2008, and training activities performed on the Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solutions (ATCOTS) contract for the FAA, a program awarded in 2008, which began training activities in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase was partially offset by $98 million of lower net sales on a DTRA program, principally from lower volume due to the substantial completion of contract scope in the fourth quarter of 2008. The increase in operating expenses of $519 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. Operating Income and Margin The increase in operating income of $85 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to improved program performance, which had a $65 million impact on operating income, and increased volume, which had an $18 million impact on operating income. The improved program performance was driven primarily by cost efficiencies associated with increased levels of program activities on various training programs, which had a $22 million positive impact on 2010 operating income, the majority of which was on programs nearing completion; contract modifications that impacted the scope on certain training programs and an international mission support program, which had an $11 million positive impact on 2010 operating income; prior year profit adjustments due to a change in estimate related to certain mission support program costs, which had a $6 million negative impact on 2009 operating income; and higher award fees on a fixed price service contract, which had a $3 million positive impact on 2010 operating income. The increase in operating margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the improved program performance described above. The increase in operating income of $41 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to increased volume, which had a $37 million impact on operating income. Operating margin in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. Backlog and Bookings Backlog at December 31, 2010 remained relatively consistent with December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Bookings in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. In 2010, TS booked $952 million on domestic training programs and $328 million on foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS activities, $173 million to provide operational and logistics support to the National Science Foundation (NSF) Office of Polar Programs and $88 million on the Security Equipment Integration Services (SEIS) contract for the TSA. Bookings in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. In 2009, TS booked $1.0 billion on domestic training programs and $300 million on foreign training programs in support of the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities, $160 million to upgrade Phalanx Weapon Systems for the Royal Canadian Navy and $100 million for DTRA. In 2008, TS booked $890 million on domestic training programs and $67 million on foreign training programs in support of the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities as well as $436 million on the FAAs ATCOTS contract. FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment represents the difference between our pension expense or income under FAS in accordance with GAAP and our pension expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. 56 Table of Contents The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment was as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 FAS expense $ (896 ) $ (646 ) $ (524 ) CAS expense 666 673 401 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment $ (230 ) $ 27 $ (123 ) As described above in Critical Accounting Estimates, a key driver of the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years, and are amortized under CAS over a 15 year period. In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly. The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $257 in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven by a $250 million increase in our FAS expense. The $250 million increase in our FAS expense was driven primarily by the continued recognition of the 2008 losses in the market related value of assets, which had an impact of approximately $260 million. Our CAS expense decreased $7 million as a result of actual versus expected asset and liability experience. The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $150 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was driven by a $272 million increase in our CAS expense. The $272 million increase in our CAS expense was driven primarily by negative asset returns in 2008, which caused certain plans to no longer be fully funded under CAS and had an impact of $287 million. Our FAS expense also increased by $122 million. The primary components of the change in FAS expense included an increase of $297 million due to the lower than expected return on pension assets during 2008, partially offset by a decrease of $106 million due to the expected return on our discretionary cash contribution to our plans in 2008 as well as the expected return on the expected cash contributions in 2009. In addition, the FAS expense decreased by $47 million due to the recognition of previous historical asset returns which were greater than the expected return. For 2011, we currently expect our FAS expense will increase more than our CAS expense, which will increase the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. We expect the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to be approximately $370 million of expense driven by the lower discount rate environment and the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, described above, of the net unrecognized liability, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns. This expected increase in FAS expense in excess of CAS expense is subject to our annual update, generally planned in the third quarter, of our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS for final 2010 census data and does not include any potential change for the Harmonization Rule. After 2011, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is more difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2010 and without an adjustment for the Harmonization Rule, we would expect our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to decline as CAS continues to recognize the market related value of the 2008 asset losses through 2013 which FAS will have fully recognized through 2011. Beginning in 2011, in order to more clearly show each business underlying operational performance, we began treating for management reporting purposes the amounts related to the FAS/CAS Post Retirement benefit (FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment) consistent with the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. Also beginning in 2011, we changed our segment presentation to exclude from each business the amounts related to the FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment and combined such 57 Table of Contents amounts with our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. The FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment represents the difference between our Post Retirement benefits (PRB) credit under FAS in accordance with GAAP and our PRB adjustment under CAS. This will result in a combined FAS/CAS adjustment at Corporate as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment as Reported $ (230 ) $ 27 $ (123 ) FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment 43 52 58 Total FAS/CAS Adjustment $ (187 ) $ 79 $ (65 ) The change will have an insignificant impact to each of the business segments operating income and margins for 2010, 2009, and 2008. Corporate and Eliminations Corporate and Eliminations includes corporate expenses and intersegment sales and profit eliminations. Corporate expenses represent unallocated costs and certain other corporate costs not considered part of managements evaluation of reportable segment operating performance, including the net costs associated with our residual commuter aircraft portfolio. The components of total net sales related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Intersegment sales eliminations $ (2,023 ) $ (2,004 ) $ (1,884 ) Corporate 27 30 (21 ) Total $ (1,996 ) $ (1,974 ) $ (1,905 ) The components of operating income related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Intersegment profit eliminations $ (189 ) $ (173 ) $ (166 ) Corporate (44 ) (70 ) (116 ) Total $ (233 ) $ (243 ) $ (282 ) Total net sales and operating income related to corporate in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. The increase in net sales and operating income related to corporate in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the increase in estimated future CAS pension costs at December 31, 2008, described below. As described above in Critical Accounting Estimates, pension costs as calculated under CAS are a component of our estimated costs to complete each of our U.S. Government contracts. On an annual basis, we update our estimate of future CAS pension costs based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. When these estimated future costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our pension assets in 2008, the estimated costs to complete each existing contract increases. The amounts of revenue and profit which are recognizable based upon our estimated percent complete and expected margins on our contracts, principally on our fixed price contracts, were reduced. In 2008, we recorded a cumulative catch up adjustment for this reduction in revenue and profit of $69 million as part of Corporate and Eliminations consistent with our internal management reporting and performance evaluation. The components of the adjustment were as follows: (In millions) Integrated Defense Systems $ 20 Intelligence and Information Systems 7 Missile Systems 14 Network Centric Systems 12 Space and Airborne Systems 12 Technical Services 4 Total $ 69 58 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations In pursuing our business strategies we have divested certain non core businesses, investments and assets when appropriate. All residual activity relating to our previously disposed businesses appears in discontinued operations. We retained certain assets and liabilities of our previously disposed businesses. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had $41 million and $71 million, respectively, of assets primarily related to our retained interest in general aviation finance receivables previously sold by Raytheon Aircraft Company (Raytheon Aircraft). At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had $113 million and $57 million, respectively, of liabilities primarily related to non income tax obligations, certain environmental and product liabilities, various contract obligations and aircraft lease obligations. We also have certain income tax obligations relating to these disposed businesses, which we include in our income tax disclosures. In the fourth quarter of 2010, IRS appeals proceedings failed to resolve the federal excise tax dispute related to the treatment of monthly management fees, and as a result, the IRS assessed Flight Options for excise taxes. In the divestiture of Flight Options, Raytheon agreed to indemnify Flight Options in the event Flight Options was assessed and paid these excise taxes. This indemnification obligation gave rise to our retained non income tax obligation. In 2011, Flight Options paid the assessment and we indemnified Flight Options given our indemnification obligation. As a result, In the fourth quarter of 2010 we recorded a $39 million charge, net of federal tax benefit, in discontinued operations. On behalf of Flight Options, we intend to vigorously contest the matter through litigation and, if successful, we would be entitled to recover substantially all of the amounts paid. We also retained certain U.K. pension assets and obligations for a limited number of U.K. pension plan participants as part of the Raytheon Aircraft sale, which we include in our pension disclosures. During 2010, in connection with the Tax Settlement, we recorded a $280 million reduction in our unrecognized tax benefits, which included a decrease of $89 million in tax expense from discontinued operations, including interest, primarily related to our previous disposition of Raytheon Engineers and Constructors. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Overview We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases, as outlined below. Our need for, cost of and access to funds are dependent on future operating results, as well as other external conditions. We currently expect that cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and other available financing resources will be sufficient to meet anticipated operating, capital expenditure, investment, debt service and other financing requirements during the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future. In addition, the following table highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at December 31, 2010 and 2009: (In millions) 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,638 $ 2,642 Working capital 2,862 2,345 Amount available under our credit facilities 1,497 1,479 The increase of $517 million in working capital in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $954 million increase in total current assets, principally driven by increased cash, partially offset by the $437 million increase in total current liabilities, principally driven by increases in other incurred expenses and accounts payable as a result of the timing of payments. Operating Activities (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations $ 1,931 $ 2,745 $ 2,036 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 1,942 2,725 2,015 59 Table of Contents The decrease of $783 million in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $750 million of higher discretionary pension contributions. The increase of $710 million in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $240 million of lower net tax payments, driven by the $350 million refund described below and $69 million of overpayment credits; $42 million of lower pension and other postretirement benefit payments described below; and $37 million of proceeds from the termination of our interest rate swap agreements. The remainder of the increase in net cash was primarily due to an increase in net cash receipts in line with total net sales growth. Tax Payments In 2010, we received federal tax refunds totaling $96 million and made $433 million in federal and net foreign tax payments and $54 million in net state tax payments. In 2009, we received federal tax refunds totaling $350 million and made $558 million in federal and net foreign tax payments, net of $69 million of overpayment credits. In 2009, we received state tax refunds totaling $23 million and made $45 million in state tax payments. In 2008, we made $448 million in federal and net foreign tax payments and $125 million in net state tax payments. Federal and foreign tax payments for 2011 are expected to approximate $700 million. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, was enacted which changed the tax treatment of the U.S. Government subsidies for companies that provide qualifying drug coverage to Medicare eligible retirees. Although some companies have been adversely affected by this act, we do not receive such U.S. Government subsidies and therefore this change will not have an effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Pension Plan Contributions We make both required and discretionary contributions to our pension plans. Required contributions are primarily determined under the ERISA rules and are affected by the actual return on plan assets and plan funded status. We made the following required and discretionary contributions to our pension plans during December 31: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Required contributions $ 1,152 $ 1,115 $ 514 Discretionary contributions 750 660 Total $ 1,902 $ 1,115 $ 1,174 Required contributions in 2010 were consistent with 2009. Required contributions in 2009 were higher than 2008 due to the impact of the decline in the value of pension plan assets in 2008. We expect to make required contributions to our pension plans of approximately $1.1 billion in 2011. We will continue to periodically evaluate whether to make additional discretionary contributions. Effective January 1, 2011, we are subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), which amended ERISA. Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven year period as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of each year. Additionally, the recognition of pension costs for government contractors under the CAS rules is required to be harmonized with the PPA. On May 10, 2010, the CAS Pension Harmonization Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) was published in the Federal Register with a 60 day comment period. The NPRM is the third step of a four step statutory process to implement a final CAS standard (Harmonization Rule) related to the recognition of pension costs for government contractors. Based upon the feedback received during the comment period, the CAS Board will either issue the final rule or alternatively reissue the NPRM. We expect that the final rule would increase our CAS recovery amount and decrease the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. Other postretirement benefit payments were $31 million, $45 million and $28 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We made interest payments of $134 million, $147 million and $142 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in interest payments in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the repurchase, in the fourth quarter of 2009, of our 4.85% Notes due 2011. Interest payments in 2009 remained relatively consistent with 2008. Investing Activities (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (535 ) $ (692 ) $ (417 ) 60 Table of Contents The decrease of $157 million in net cash provided by (used in) investing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the acquisition of BBN in the fourth quarter of 2009 in which we paid $334 million, net of cash acquired, offset by 2010 acquisitions of $152 million, net of cash acquired, described below. This decrease is offset by $39 million of higher additions to property, plant and equipment. The increase of $275 million in net cash provided by (used in) investing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the acquisition of BBN in the fourth quarter of 2009. Additions to property plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software were as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Additions to property, plant and equipment $ 319 $ 280 $ 304 Additions to capitalized internal use software 67 67 74 We expect our property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software expenditures to be approximately $400 million and $110 million, respectively, in 2011, consistent with the anticipated growth of our business and for specific investments including program capital assets and facility improvements. In pursuing our business strategies, we acquire and make investments in certain businesses that meet strategic and financial criteria, and divest of certain non core businesses, investments and assets when appropriate. As described in Note 18: Subsequent Events on page 115, on January 31, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. (AST), pursuant to a definitive agreement dated December 18, 2010. Acquisitions In 2010, we acquired Trusted Computer Solutions Inc., Technology Associates Inc. and substantially all of the assets of an Australian company, Compucat Research Pty. Ltd, for a total amount for all three of $152 million in cash, net of cash acquired. These acquisitions enhance our cybersecurity and information assurance capabilities. In connection with these acquisitions, we recorded $125 million of goodwill, primarily related to expected synergies from combining operations and the value of the existing workforce, and $28 million of intangible assets, primarily related to technology, trade names and customer relationships with a weighted average life of five years. In 2009, we acquired BBN which enhances our advanced networking, speech and language technologies, information technologies, sensor systems and cybersecurity, for $334 million in cash, net of $22 million of cash acquired, exclusive of retention and management incentive payments. In 2008, we acquired Telemus Solutions, Inc. and SI Government Solutions, which enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, for an aggregate of $52 million in cash. Financing Activities (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (411 ) $ (1,650 ) $ (1,994 ) We have used cash provided by operating activities, and proceeds from the issuance of new debt in 2010 and 2009 as our primary source for the repayment of debt, payment of dividends and the repurchase of our common stock. The increase of $1,239 million in net cash provided by (used in) financing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the issuance of $2.0 billion fixed rate long term debt, as described below, partially offset by $250 million of higher repurchases of common stock under our share repurchase programs and $678 million related to the repurchase of long term debt described below. The decrease of $344 million in net cash provided by (used in) financing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to $500 million of lower repurchases of common stock under our share repurchase program, partially offset by a $112 million reduction in activity under common stock plans due to lower stock option exercises, described below. Debt In the fourth quarter of 2010, we received proceeds of $1,975 million for the issuance of $2.0 billion fixed rate long term debt and exercised our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to U.S. Treasuries, $678 million of our long term debt due in 2012 and 2013 at a loss of $73 million pretax, $47 million after tax, which is included in other (income) expense. 61 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2009, we received proceeds of $496 million from the issuance of $500 million fixed rate long term debt and exercised our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to U.S. Treasuries, $474 million of our long term debt maturing in 2011 at a loss of $22 million pretax, $14 million after tax, which is included in other (income) expense. We made no debt repayments in 2008. Stock Repurchases Information on repurchases of our common stock under our share repurchase programs was as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Amount of stock repurchased $ 1,450 $ 1,200 $ 1,700 Shares of stock repurchased 29.0 25.8 30.7 In March 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.4 billion remaining under this repurchase program. All previous repurchase programs had been completed as of December 31, 2010. Share repurchases will take place from time to time at managements discretion depending on market conditions. In May 2010, our stockholders approved the Raytheon 2010 Stock Plan (the Plan). Under the Plan, we may grant restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, stock grants, stock options and stock appreciation rights. Cash Dividends Our Board of Directors authorized the following cash dividends: (In millions, except per share amounts) 2010 2009 2008 Cash dividends per share $ 1.50 $ 1.24 $ 1.12 Total dividends paid 536 473 460 In March 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a 21% increase to our annual dividend payout rate from $1.24 to $1.50 per share. In March 2009, our Board of Directors authorized an 11% increase in our annual dividend payout rate from $1.12 to $1.24 per share. Dividends are subject to quarterly approval by our Board of Directors. CAPITAL RESOURCES Total debt was $3.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Our outstanding debt bears contractual interest at fixed interest rates ranging from 1.6% to 7.2% and matures at various dates through 2040. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents were $3.6 billion and $2.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. We invest cash in U.S. Treasuries; commercial paper of financial institutions and corporations with a minimum long term debt rating of AA or Aa3 and minimum short term debt rating of A 1 and P 1; AAA/Aaa rated U.S. Treasury money market funds; and bank certificates of deposit and time deposits with a minimum long term debt rating of AA or Aa3. Cash balances held at our foreign subsidiaries were approximately 15% of our total cash balance at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, and are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. Credit Facilities In November 2010, we entered into a $500 million revolving credit facility maturing in 2012, replacing the previous $500 million 364 day facility, which matured in November 2010. Under the facility we can borrow and backstop commercial paper. We have a $1.0 billion facility maturing in November 2012, $150 million of which is available to Raytheon United Kingdom Limited, our U.K. subsidiary. Under the facility we can borrow, issue letters of credit and backstop commercial paper. Borrowings under these facilities bear interest at various rate options, including LIBOR plus a margin based on our credit default swap spread, with minimum and maximum margins that are adjusted for our credit ratings. Based on our credit ratings at December 31, 2010 borrowings under the $1.0 billion and $500 million facilities would bear interest at LIBOR plus 100 basis points and 75 basis points, respectively, the minimum margin. The credit facilities are comprised of commitments from approximately 25 separate highly rated lenders, each committing no more than 10% of the aggregate of the facilities. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings outstanding under these 62 Table of Contents credit facilities or our previous credit facility. However, we had $3 million and $21 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, which effectively reduced our borrowing capacity under these credit facilities and our previous credit facility by those same amounts. Under the current and previous credit facilities, we must comply with certain covenants, including a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 50% and a ratio of consolidated earnings attributable to Raytheon Company before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated net interest expense, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of no less than 3 to 1. We were in compliance with these covenants during 2010 and 2009. Our ratio of total debt to total capitalization, as defined in the current and previous credit facilities, was 26.7% and 19.0% at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. We are providing these ratios, which are financial covenants under our current credit facilities, as these metrics are used by our lenders to monitor the Companys leverage and debt service capacity and are also thresholds that limit our ability to utilize these two facilities. Certain of our foreign subsidiaries maintain revolving bank lines of credit to provide them with a limited amount of short term liquidity, including the $150 million Raytheon United Kingdom Limited facility described above. In addition, other uncommitted bank lines totaled approximately $2 million and $15 million at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. There were no amounts outstanding under these lines of credit at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Compensating balance arrangements are not material. Credit Ratings Three major corporate debt rating organizations, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Standard & Poors (S&P), assign ratings to our short term and long term debt. The following chart reflects the current ratings assigned by each of these agencies as of December 31, 2010 to our short and long term senior unsecured debt: Short Term Long Term Senior Debt Rating Agency Debt Rating Outlook Date of Last Action Fitch F2 A Stable September 2008 Moodys P 2 Baa1 Stable March 2007 S&P A 2 A Stable September 2008 Shelf Registrations We have an effective shelf registration with the SEC, filed in October 2010, which covers the registration of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock and warrants. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following is a schedule of our contractual obligations outstanding at December 31, 2010: (In millions) Total Less than1 year(2011) 1 3 years(2012 2013) 4 5 years(2014 2015) After 5 years(2016 andthereafter) Debt(1) $ 3,658 $ $ $ 400 $ 3,258 Interest payments 2,432 167 336 336 1,593 Operating leases 1,216 254 363 214 385 Purchase obligations 8,875 6,205 2,382 222 66 Total $ 16,181 $ 6,626 $ 3,081 $ 1,172 $ 5,302 (1) Debt includes scheduled principal payments only. Purchase obligations in the table above represent enforceable and legally binding agreements with suppliers to purchase goods or services. We enter into contracts with customers, primarily the U.S. Government, which entitles us to full recourse for costs incurred, including purchase obligations, in the event the contract is terminated by the customer for convenience. These purchase obligations are included above notwithstanding the amount for which we are entitled to full recourse from our customers. The table above does not include required pension and other postretirement contributions. We expect to make required pension and other postretirement contributions of $1.1 billion in 2011, exclusive of any U.S. Government recovery. Amounts beyond 2011 for required pension and other postretirement contributions depend upon actuarial assumptions, actual plan asset performance and other factors described under pension costs in Critical Accounting Estimates on page 35. However, based solely on our current assumptions, we expect our funding requirements to be approximately $1 billion in 2012 and 2013, exclusive of any U.S. Government recovery, and slowly decreasing thereafter. 63 Table of Contents Interest payments include interest on debt that is redeemable at our option. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and the accrual for the related interest, net of the federal benefit, was $211 million and $549 million, respectively, and was included in accrued retiree benefits and other long term liabilities. These amounts were not included in the table above since we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when a cash settlement, if any, will occur with a tax authority as the timing of examinations and ultimate resolutions of those examinations is uncertain. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS At December 31, 2010, we had no significant off balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases and guarantees to third parties on behalf of our affiliates as described below in Commitments and Contingencies. Such arrangements are not material to our overall liquidity or capital resources, market risk support or credit risk support as described below. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Environmental Matters We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. Our estimate of the liability of total environmental remediation costs includes the use of a discount rate and considers that a portion of these costs is eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. We consider such recovery probable based on government contracting regulations and our long history of receiving reimbursement for such costs and accordingly have recorded the estimated future recovery of these costs from the U.S. Government within contracts in process. Our estimates of total remediation costs, weighted average risk free rate, total remediation costs discounted and recoverable portion were as follows at December 31: (In millions, except percentages) 2010 2009 Total remediation costs undiscounted $ 225 $ 208 Weighted average risk free rate 5.6 % 5.7 % Total remediation costs discounted $ 152 $ 139 Recoverable portion 107 97 We also lease certain government owned properties and are generally not liable for remediation of preexisting environmental contamination at these sites; as a result, we generally do not reflect the provision for these costs in our consolidated financial statements. Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance coverage and the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of environmental matters; however, we do not expect any additional liability to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 64 Table of Contents Environmental remediation costs expected to be incurred are: (In millions) 2011 $ 48 2012 23 2013 19 2014 14 2015 12 Thereafter 109 Financing Arrangements and Other We issue guarantees and banks and surety companies issue, on our behalf, letters of credit and surety bonds to meet various bid, performance, warranty, retention and advance payment obligations of us or our affiliates. These instruments expire on various dates through 2020. Additional guarantees of project performance for which there is no stated value also remain outstanding. The stated values outstanding consisted of the following at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009: (In millions) 2010 2009 Guarantees $ 281 $ 227 Letters of Credit 1,067 898 Surety Bonds 213 203 Included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $134 million and $256 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010, and $80 million and $206 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009, related to our joint venture in TRS. We provide these guarantees and letters of credit to TRS and other affiliates to assist these entities in obtaining financing on more favorable terms, making bids on contracts and performing their contractual obligations. While we expect these entities to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations, their failure to do so may result in a future obligation to us. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had an estimated liability of $9 million and $6 million, respectively, related to these guarantees and letters of credit. We periodically evaluate the risk of TRS and other affiliates failing to satisfy their loans, project performance and meet other contractual obligations described above. At December 31, 2010, we believe the risk that TRS and other affiliates will not be able to perform or meet their obligations is minimal for the foreseeable future based on their current financial condition. All obligations were current at December 31, 2010. Our residual turbo prop commuter aircraft portfolio has exposure to outstanding financing arrangements with the aircraft serving as collateral. We have sold and leased commuter aircraft globally to thinly capitalized companies, whose financial condition could be significantly affected by a number of factors, including fuel and other costs, the availability of credit, industry consolidation, declining commercial aviation market conditions and the U.S. Government budget for the Essential Air Service program. Based on recent economic trends, including tightening credit markets and volatile fuel costs, these companies may increasingly experience difficulties meeting their financial commitments. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, our exposure on commuter aircraft assets held as inventory, collateral on notes or as leased assets, was approximately $68 million relating to 77 aircraft and approximately $109 million relating to 106 aircraft, respectively. The valuation of used aircraft is also considered in assessing the realizable value of certain commuter aircraft related to assets which serve as collateral for the underlying financial arrangements. As part of the assessment of realizable value, we evaluate many factors, including sales transaction history, current market conditions, anticipated future market conditions and age and condition of the aircraft. The carrying value of our commuter aircraft portfolio assumes an orderly disposition of these assets, consistent with our historical experience and strategy. The tightening of credit markets and economic conditions have reduced the number of potential buyers who are able to obtain financing and have negatively impacted the ability of existing customers to refinance their aircraft through a third party. If the long term market prospects for these aircraft were to significantly erode or cease, our valuation of these assets would likely be less than the carrying value. We periodically evaluate potential alternative strategies for the disposal of these assets. If we were to dispose of these assets in an other than orderly manner or sell the portfolio in its entirety, the value realized would likely be less than the carrying value. 65 Table of Contents In 1997, we provided a first loss guarantee of $133 million on $1.3 billion of U.S. Export Import Bank loans (maturing in 2015) to the Brazilian Government related to Network Centric Systems System for the Vigilance of the Amazon (SIVAM) program. Loan repayments by the Brazilian Government were current at December 31, 2010. We have entered into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, as a condition to obtaining orders for our products and services from certain customers in foreign countries. These agreements are designed to enhance the social and economic environment of the foreign country by requiring the contractor to promote investment in the country. Offset agreements may be satisfied through activities that do not require us to use cash, including transferring technology, providing manufacturing and other consulting support to in country projects, and the purchase by third parties (e.g., our vendors) of supplies from in country vendors. These agreements may also be satisfied through our use of cash for such activities as purchasing supplies from in country vendors, providing financial support for in country projects, building or leasing facilities for in country operations and making investments in local ventures. We typically do not commit to offset agreements until orders for our products or services are definitive. The amounts ultimately applied against our offset agreements are based on negotiations with the customer and typically require cash outlays that represent only a fraction of the original amount in the offset agreement. Offfset programs usually extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. We have historically not been required to pay any such penalties. Government contractors are subject to many levels of audit and investigation. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Defense Contract Management Agency, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional Committees. The Department of Justice has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S. and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government regulations or any applicable U.S. Government regulations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations) may also be investigated or audited. We do not expect these audits and investigations to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate. We are currently conducting a self initiated internal review of certain of our international operations, focusing on compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In the course of the review, we have identified several possible areas of concern relating to payments made in connection with certain international operations related to a jurisdiction where we do business. We have voluntarily contacted the SEC and the Department of Justice to advise both agencies that an internal review is underway. Because the internal review is ongoing, we cannot predict the ultimate consequences of the review. Based on the information available to date, we do not believe that the results of this review will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2006, international arbitration hearings commenced against us as the successor to the Hughes Electronics defense business, in connection with certain claims brought in 2004 by MBDA relating to an alleged 1995 Workshare Agreement. The asserted claims involve breach of contract, intellectual property infringement and other related matters. The arbitration panel stayed further proceedings, including the issuance of the liability decision on the non IP claims presented during the May 2006 hearing, while the parties engaged in settlement efforts. The parties were unable to conclude an enforceable settlement, and in August 2009, the panel released its liability decision, rejecting some of MBDAs non IP claims, while finding Raytheon liable for some other non IP claims. We did not record any significant additional financial liability as a result of our estimate of the impact of the decision. The proceedings will now resume to determine liability for the asserted IP claims and to assess overall damages, if any. At this point, we are unable to estimate a range of potential loss, if any, because the IP claims are vague, discovery is in process, and any potential damages involve complex, technical matters subject to interpretation by the arbitration panel. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the asserted IP claims and intend to continue to contest them vigorously; however, an adverse resolution of this matter could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. On July 22, 2010, Raytheon Systems Limited (RSL) was notified by the UK Border Agency that it had been terminated for cause on a program. The termination notice included allegations that RSL had failed to perform on certain key milestones and other matters in addition to claims to recover certain losses incurred and previous payments made to RSL. 66 Table of Contents We believe that RSL performed well and delivered substantial capabilities to the UK Border Agency under the program, which has been operating successfully and providing actionable information since live operations began in May 2009. On July 29, 2010, RSL filed a dispute notice on the grounds that the termination by the UK Border Agency was not valid. On August 18, 2010, the UK Border Agency initiated arbitration proceedings on this issue. We expect the arbitration procedures to commence in the first half of 2011. We intend to pursue vigorously the collection of receivables for the program and damages in connection with the termination and defend ourselves against the UK Border Agencys claims for losses and previous payments. As a result of the termination notice, we adjusted our estimated amount of revenue and costs under the program in the second quarter of 2010. The adjustment was based on our determination that certain assets were no longer expected to be recovered and for estimated costs for certain exit cost obligations under the contract and the estimated settlement of expected future subcontractor claims. The impact of the adjustment reduced Intelligence and Information Systems total net sales and operating income by $316 million and $395 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $80 million in letters of credit and approximately $70 million of receivables and other assets remaining under the program for technology and services delivered, which we believe, are probable of recovery in litigation or arbitration. No amounts have been drawn down on the letters of credit. We currently do not believe it is probable that we are liable for losses, previous payments or other claims asserted by the UK Border Agency. Due to the inherent uncertainties in litigation and arbitration as noted above, and the complexity and technical nature of potential claims and counterclaims, as well as the resolution of the related matters involving subcontractors, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate amount of any resolution of the termination could be less or greater than our estimate and at this time, we are unable to estimate a range of the potential difference in such amounts, if any. If we are unsuccessful in recovering amounts drawn on the letters of credit, if any, fail to collect the receivable balance, are required to make payments against claims or other losses asserted by the UK Border Agency or pay subcontractor claims in excess of our estimates made in connection with the adjustment in the second quarter of 2010 described above, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, various other claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened against us. We do not expect any additional liability from these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In January 2010, we adopted the required new accounting standards which amend the accounting and disclosure requirements for transfers of financial assets and consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). Among other things, these accounting standards eliminate the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) and the related exception for applying the consolidation guidance. As a result, on January 1, 2010 we consolidated General Aviation Receivables Corporation (GARC), which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and resulted in: The removal of our $67 million investment in the GARC previously reported in other assets, net, and The addition of long and short term notes receivable, net of $68 million, current and long term notes payable of $2 million, and an increase in retained earnings of less than $1 million, net of tax. Further, the new accounting standard related to consolidation of VIEs requires an enterprise to perform a qualitative analysis when determining whether or not it must consolidate a VIE. It also requires an enterprise to continuously reassess whether it must consolidate a VIE. Additionally, it requires enhanced disclosures about an enterprises involvement with VIEs and any significant change in risk exposure due to that involvement, as well as how its involvement with VIEs impacts the enterprises financial statements. Finally, an enterprise is required to disclose significant judgments and assumptions used to determine whether or not to consolidate a VIE. With the exception of GARC described above, the adoption of this accounting standard did not change any of our previous consolidation conclusions and thus did not have an effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Other new pronouncements issued but not effective until after December 31, 2010, are not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 67 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable rate short term and fixed rate long term financing. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. The market risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest and exchange rates. For long term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. There were no interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Long Term Debt 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ 400 $ 3,258 $ 3,658 $ 3,783 Average interest rate 1.625 % 4.962 % 4.60 % As of December 31, 2009 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates (In millions, except percentages) Long Term Debt 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ $ $ 333 $ 345 $ $ 1,658 $ 2,336 $ 2,581 Average interest rate 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.10 % 5.91 % The notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts consisted of the following at: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (In millions) Buy Sell Buy Sell British Pounds $ 370 $ 296 $ 407 $ 498 Canadian Dollars 220 51 212 46 Euros 165 32 190 35 All other 85 39 176 53 Total $ 840 $ 418 $ 985 $ 632 Unrealized gains of $45 million and $69 million were included in non current assets and unrealized losses of $41 million and $33 million were included in current liabilities at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. Realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. We believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 68 Table of Contents 
 
