ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW IntroductionRaytheon Company develops technologically advanced, integrated products, services and solutions in four core defense markets, sensing, effects, command, control, communications and intelligence (C3I), and mission support, as well as the cybersecurity and homeland security markets. We serve both domestic and international customers, as both a prime and subcontractor on a broad portfolio of defense and related programs for primarily government customers. We operate in six business segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS), Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) and Technical Services (TS). For a more detailed description of our segments, see Business Segments within Item 1 of this Form 10 K. In this section, we discuss our industry and how certain factors may affect our business, key elements of our strategy, and how our financial performance is assessed and measured by management. Next, we discuss our critical accounting estimates, which are those estimates that are most important to both the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements subjective judgment. We then review our results of operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009 beginning with an overview of our total company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by business segment. We also review our financial condition and liquidity including our capital structure and resources, off balance sheet arrangements, commitments and contingencies, and conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks. Industry Considerations Domestic ConsiderationsThe U.S. Government continues to focus on efforts to reduce federal budget deficits and curb the growing amount of national debt. Currently, the primary vehicle to reduce the deficit is the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA). Enacted into law on August 2, 2011, it aims to reduce deficits in two phases. The first phase reduces federal outlays by $917 billion over the Fiscal Year (FY) 2012FY 2021 period, primarily by establishing specific limits on annual appropriations. Senior officials of the Department of Defense (DoD) have publicly indicated that this will reduce DoD funding by $487 billion over this period relative to the long term DoD budget plans established in February 2011.The second phase of the BCA established a bipartisan, bicameral select committee of Congress to identify at least an additional $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction measures by November 23, 2011. Due to the select committees failure to identify agreed upon deficit reduction recommendations, pursuant to the terms of the BCA, a sequestration is scheduled to commence on January 2, 2013 that would result in a total of $1.2 trillion in reduced spending over the FY 2013FY 2021 period. The BCA sequestration contemplates that the DoD would bear 50% of the cuts excluding reduced interest payments. DoD officials estimate that such sequestration would further reduce DoD spending by another $500 billion over the FY 2013FY 2021 period relative to its previous long term plans.It is uncertain whether the contemplated BCA sequestration will take effect on January 2, 2013 or whether it will be averted through actions of the Congress and the Administration prior to January 2, 2013. Whether sequestration goes into effect or is avoided, the resulting impact or impact of other actions on future DoD budgets and our programs are unknown at this time. In addition, in January 2012, the DoD issued strategic guidance on the U.S. defense priorities for the next ten years in light of the geopolitical environment and U.S. Government finances. The DoD guidance identified the primary missions of the U.S. armed forces and the capabilities expected to be critical to future success, including Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR), missile defense and cybersecurity. Although the actual impact of implementation of the strategic guidance on the DoD budget and our programs is uncertain, we believe that we are well positioned to support many of these critical capabilities. The U.S. Government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for 74% of our total net sales in 2011. Our principal U.S. Government customer is the DoD, and DoD funding has grown substantially since FY 2001, when it was approximately $300 billion. However, given the current budget environment, future defense spending levels are difficult to predict. A number of other factors potentially impacting the DoD budget include the following:External threats to our national security, including potential security threats posed by terrorists, emerging nuclear states and other countries;27Table of ContentsSupport for on going operations overseas, including Afghanistan, which will require funding above and beyond the DoD base budget for their duration;Cost cutting measures implemented by the DoD, such as the Efficiencies Initiative launched in June 2010 to ensure more efficient use of its resources in order to sufficiently fund its highest priorities; Priorities of the Administration and the Congress, including deficit reduction, which could result in changes in the overall DoD budget and various allocations within the DoD budget; andThe overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the state of governmental finances.The Congress approved a FY 2012 base budget of $531 billion, which approximates the funding level for FY 2011. Our DoD contracts are funded primarily through modernization funding, consisting of procurement and research and development (R&D), and Operations and Maintenance Account (O&M) funding. For FY 2012, procurement and R&D and O&M funding are $176 billion and $197 billion, respectively, consistent with FY 2011 levels. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) in Afghanistan and Iraq have largely been funded apart from the DoD base budget to better maintain visibility and oversight of war costs. The Congress approved $115 billion for FY 2012 OCO funding, which is lower than the $159 billion enacted for FY 2011 OCO activities, due to reduced operations in Iraq. Looking forward, OCO funding is expected to continue to decline as troops redeploy out of Iraq and Afghanistan. The request for future OCO funding will be determined on an as needed basis and will likely be closely correlated to the amount of troops required for each operation. OCO funding has not been a significant source of new orders for Raytheon in the last two years, and is not expected to be so in future years. In January 2012, the Administration announced its plan for a $525 billion DoD base budget for FY 2013 with an additional $88 billion for OCO activities. Although the uncertainty of sequestration, among other factors, makes predicting the DoD budget beyond FY 2012 difficult, we expect the DoD to prioritize and protect the key capabilities required to execute its strategy, including ISR, cybersecurity, missile defense, unmanned systems, and interoperability with allied forces. We believe those priorities are well aligned with our product offerings, technologies, services and capabilities.With respect to other domestic customers beyond the DoD, we have contracts with a wide range of U.S. Government agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of Justice (DoJ), the Department of State, the Department of Energy, the Intelligence Community, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Science Foundation (NSF). Similar to the budget environment for the DoD, we expect the Administration will have to take the spending limits imposed by the first phase of the BCA into account when determining spending priorities for these agencies. Our relationship with these agencies generally is determined more by specific program requirements than by a direct correlation to the overall funding levels for these agencies; however, if sequestration under the second phase of the BCA occurs, it may adversely impact these specific programs. We also have contracts with various state and local government agencies that also are subject to budget constraints and conflicts in spending priorities. We currently are involved in over 15,000 contracts, with no single contract accounting for more than 5% of our total net sales in 2011. Although we believe that our diverse portfolio of programs and capabilities is well suited to a changing defense environment, we face numerous challenges and risks, as discussed above. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact the U.S. Governments demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. International ConsiderationsIn 2011, our sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for 25% of our total net sales (including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government). Internationally, the growing threat of additional terrorist activity, emerging nuclear states, long range missiles and conventional military threats have led to an increase in demand for defense products and services and homeland security solutions. In North Asia, both short and long term security concerns are increasing demand for air and missile defense, air/naval modernization, maritime security, homeland security and air traffic management. In the Middle East, threats from state and non state actors are increasing demand for air and missile defense, air/land/naval force modernization, precision engagement, maritime security, border security, and homeland security solutions. In South America, the economic growth in some developing countries is being accompanied by an increase in defense spending. While this region has traditionally been a smaller market for U.S. based suppliers, it is likely to see above average growth rates in the future. Global economic challenges are likely to restrain or even shrink the defense budgets of many European nations. Overall, we believe many international defense budgets have the potential to grow faster than the U.S. defense budget. International customers are also expected to continue to adopt defense modernization initiatives similar to the DoD. We believe 28Table of Contentsthis trend will continue as many international customers are facing a threat environment that is similar to the U.S. and they are looking for advanced weapons and sensor systems. Alliance members also wish to assure their forces and systems will be interoperable with U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces. However, international demand is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and geo political uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as U.S. foreign policy. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact international demand for our products and services, see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Our Strategy and OpportunitiesThe following are the broad elements of our strategy:Focus on key strategic pursuits, technology and Mission Assurance to protect and grow our position in four core defense markets: Sensing, Effects, C3I and Mission Support.Leverage our domain knowledge in air, land, sea, space and cyber for all markets.Expand international business by building on our relationships and deep market expertise.Continue to be a Customer focused company based on performance, relationships and solutions.Deliver innovative supply chain solutions to accelerate growth, create competitive advantage and bring valued, global solutions to our customers. Our MarketsWe believe that our broad mix of technologies, domain expertise and key capabilities and our cost effective, best value solutions and their alignment with customer needs in our core defense markets, position us favorably to continue to grow and increase our market share. Our core markets also serve as a solid base from which to expand into growth areas, such as Homeland Security and Cybersecurity. We continually explore opportunities to leverage our existing capabilities, or develop or acquire additional ones, to expand into growth markets. SensingSensing encompasses technologies that acquire precise situational data across air, space, ground and underwater domains and then generate the information needed for effective battlespace decisions. Our Sensing technologies span the full electromagnetic spectrum, from traditional radio frequency (RF) and electro optical (EO) to wideband, hyperspectral and acoustic sensors. We are focused on leveraging our sensing technologies to provide a broad range of capabilities as well as expanding into growth markets such as sensors to detect weapons of mass destruction. EffectsEffects achieve specific military actions or outcomes, from small unit force protection to theater/national missile defense. The missions may be achieved by kinetic means, directed energy or information operations. Our Effects capabilities include advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, multiple sensor seekers, targeting, net enabled systems, multi dimensional effects, directed energy and cyber systems. Our Effects capabilities were enhanced in 2011 with the acquisition of the business assets of Ktech Corporation, a directed energy company. Command, Control, Communication and Intelligence (C3I)C3I systems provide integrated real time support to decision makers on and off the battlefield, transforming raw data into actionable intelligence. Our C3I capabilities include situational awareness, persistent surveillance, communications, mission planning, battle management command and control, intelligence and analysis, and integrated ground solutions. We are also continuing to grow our market presence in C3I and expand our knowledge management and discovery capabilities. In 2011, we acquired California based Applied Signal Technology, Inc., which specializes in signals intelligence and processing of electromagnetic spectrum information to provide situational awareness to warfighters and the intelligence community. Mission SupportWe are focused on enabling customer success through total life cycle support that predicts customer needs, senses potential problems and proactively responds with the most appropriate solutions. Our Mission Support capabilities include technical services, system engineering, product support, logistics, training, operations and maintenance. Our training business continues to expand and we now train military, civil and commercial customers in over 80 countries and in 40 different languages. Homeland SecurityWe also intend to continue to grow our presence in the domestic and international homeland security markets, focusing on transportation security, immigration control/identity management, critical infrastructure protection, maritime security, energy security, intelligence program support, law enforcement solutions and emergency preparedness and response. CybersecurityWe continue to enhance our capabilities in the cybersecurity market as well as leverage the capabilities of the ten cyber acquisitions made since 2007. We are focused on providing cyber capabilities to the Intelligence, DoD and DHS markets as well as embedding information assurance capabilities in our products and our IT infrastructure. In 2011, we 29Table of Contentsacquired Pikewerks Corporation, which specializes in cybersecurity, software protection, anti tamper, information operations, data protection and forensics, and Henggeler Computer Consultants, Inc., which focuses on cybersecurity, enterprise architecture, analytics, software, and cloud based solutions. International GrowthBecause of the breadth of our offerings, our systems integration capability, the value of our solutions and our strong legacy in the international marketplace, we believe that we are well positioned to continue to grow our international business. As discussed under International Considerations, we believe demand is growing for solutions in air and missile defense, homeland security, air traffic management, precision engagement, naval systems integration and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. In addition, as coalition forces increasingly integrate military operations worldwide, we believe that our capabilities in network enabled operations will continue to be a key discriminator in these markets.In 2011, our international sales, including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, were $6.2 billion compared to $5.8 billion in 2010. In 2011, our international bookings were $7.7 billion compared to $4.4 billion in 2010. Focus on the Customer and ExecutionOur customer focus continues to be a critical part of our strategyunderpinned by a focus on performance, relationships and solutions. Performance means being able to meet customer commitments which is ensured through strong processes, metrics and oversight. We maintain a process architecture that spans our broad programs and pursuits. It consists of processes such as Integrated Product Development System (IPDS) which assures consistency of evaluation and execution at each step in a programs life cycle. It also includes our Achieving Process Excellence (APEX), which is our SAP business system software for accounting, finance and program management; Process Re Invention Integrating Systems for Manufacturing (PRISM), which is our SAP software for manufacturing operations; Advanced Company Estimating System (ACES) which is our cost proposal system and Raytheon Enterprise Supplier Assessment (RESA) tool for Supply Chain Management. These processes and systems are linked to an array of front end and back end metrics. With this structure, we are able to track results and be alerted to potential issues through numerous oversight mechanisms, including operating reviews and annual operating plan reviews. We are also continuing to build strong customer relationships by working with them as partners and including them on Raytheon Six SigmaTM teams to jointly improve their programs and processes. We are increasingly focused on responding to our customers changing requirements with rapid and effective solutions to real world problems. In recognition of our customers constraints and priorities, we also continue to drive various cost reductions across the Company through Raytheon Six SigmaTM, lean processes, reducing cycle times and numerous other initiatives.FINANCIAL SUMMARYWe use the following key financial performance measures to manage our business on a consolidated basis and by business segment and to monitor and assess our results of operations:Bookingsa forward looking metric that measures the value of new contracts awarded to us during the year.Net Salesa growth metric that measures our revenue for the current year.Operating Incomea measure of our profit from continuing operations for the year, before non operating expenses, net and taxes.Operating Margina measure of our operating income as a percentage of total net sales. We also focus on earnings per share (EPS), including Adjusted EPS, and measures to assess our cash generation and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital such as free cash flow (FCF) and return on invested capital (ROIC). Considered together, we believe these metrics are strong indicators of our overall performance and our ability to create shareholder value. We feel these measures are balanced among long term and short term performance, efficiency and growth. We also use these and other performance metrics for executive compensation purposes. In addition, we maintain a strong focus on program execution and the prudent management of capital and investments in order to maximize operating income and cash. We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, and research and development; prudently managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases. Bookings were $26.6 billion, $24.4 billion and $25.1 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively resulting in backlog of $35.3 billion, $34.6 billion and $36.9 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Backlog represents thedollar value of contracts awarded for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and 30Table of Contentsgenerally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. We therefore discuss changes in backlog, including any significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portion of our contracts. As described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 65, in the second quarter of 2010, Raytheon Systems Limited (RSL) was notified of its termination on the U.K. Border Agency program, which resulted in a net backlog adjustment of $556 million at IIS. In the second quarter of 2009, Kinetic Energy Interceptor (KEI), a developmental program with the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), was terminated for convenience, which resulted in a net backlog adjustment of approximately $2.4 billion at MS. The program was cancelled by the MDA due to a change in missile defense priorities. Total net sales were $24.9 billion, $25.2 billion and $24.9 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating income was $2.9 billion, $2.6 billion and $3.0 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating margin was 11.5%, 10.4% and 12.2% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included in operating income was a FAS/CAS Adjustment, described below in Critical Accounting Estimates, of $337 million of expense, $187 million of expense and $80 million of income in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $2.2 billion, $1.9 billion and $2.7 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A discussion of our results of operations and financial condition follows below in Consolidated Results of Operations; Segment Results; Financial Condition and Liquidity; and Capital Resources.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATESOur consolidated financial statements are based on the application of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe the estimates set forth below may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application than our other accounting estimates and represent the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe our judgments related to these accounting estimates are appropriate. However, if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from the amounts recorded. Revenue RecognitionWe determine the appropriate method by which we recognize revenue by analyzing the type, terms and conditions of each contract or arrangement entered into with our customers. The significant estimates we make in recognizing revenue for the types of revenue generating activities in which we are involved are described below. We classify contract revenues as product or service according to the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts unless the contract can clearly be split between product and service. We define service revenue as revenue from activities that are not associated with the design, development or production of tangible assets, the delivery of software code or a specific capability. Our services sales are primarily related to our TS operating segment. Percentage of Completion AccountingWe account for our long term contracts associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, such as certain cost plus service contracts, using the percentage of completion accounting method. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the long term contract. The selection of the method by which to measure such progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Our analysis of these contracts also contemplates whether contracts should be combined or segmented. The combination of two or more contracts requires significant judgment in determining whether the intent of entering into the contracts was effectively to enter into a single project, which should be combined to reflect an overall profit rate. Additionally, judgment is involved in determining whether a single contract or group of contracts may be segmented based on how the arrangement was negotiated and the performance criteria. The decision to combine a group of contracts or segment a contract could change the amount of revenue and gross profit recorded in a given period had consideration not been given to these factors. We combine closely related contracts when all the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. Similarly, we may segment a project, which may consist of a single contract or a group of contracts, with varying rates of profitability, only if all the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. We generally use the cost to cost measure of progress for all our long term contracts unless we believe another method more clearly measures progress towards completion of the contract. Under the cost to cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion 31Table of Contentsof the contract. Contract costs include material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. Revenues, including estimated earned fees or profits, are recorded as costs are incurred. Due to the nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion (the process for which we describe below in more detail) is complex and subject to many variables. Incentive and award fees are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer or upon achievement of certain program milestones or cost targets. Incentive and award fees, as well as penalties or other damages related to contract performance, are considered in estimating profit rates. Estimates of award fees are based on actual awards and anticipated performance, which may include the performance of subcontractor or partners depending upon the individual contract requirements. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. Such incentives and penalties are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Our claims on contracts are recorded only if it is probable the claim will result in additional contract revenue and the amounts can be reliably estimated. Raytheon has a Company wide standard and disciplined quarterly Estimate at Completion (EAC) process in which management reviews the progress and performance of our contracts. As part of this process, management reviews include, but are not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. The risks and opportunities include managements judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the schedule (for example, the number and type of milestone events), technical requirements (for example, a newly developed product versus a mature product), and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the contract (to estimate increases in wages and prices for materials and related support cost allocations), performance by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer, and overhead cost rates, among other variables. These estimates also include the estimated cost of satisfying our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset obligations required under certain contracts. Based on this analysis, any adjustments to net sales, costs of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. These adjustments may result from positive program performance and an increase in operating profit during the performance of individual contracts if we determine we will be successful in mitigating risks surrounding the technical, schedule, and cost aspects of those contracts or realizing related opportunities. Likewise, these adjustments may result in a decrease in operating profit if we determine we will not be successful in mitigating these risks or realizing related opportunities. Changes in estimates of net sales, costs of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods based on a contracts percent complete. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period the loss is determined.Our operating income included net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates of approximately $548 million, $158 million and $442 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These adjustments increased our earnings from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders by approximately $348 million ($0.98 per diluted share), $75 million ($0.20 per diluted share), and $287 million ($0.73 per diluted share) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.Other Revenue MethodsTo a much lesser extent, we enter into other types of contracts such as service, commercial, or software and licensing arrangements. Revenue under service and commercial contracts generally is recognized upon delivery or as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, our price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Costs on fixed price service contracts are expensed as incurred, unless they otherwise qualify for deferral. We recognize revenue on contracts to sell software when evidence of an arrangement exists, the software has been delivered and accepted by the customer, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. For software arrangements that include multiple elements, including perpetual software licenses and undelivered items (e.g., maintenance and or services; subscriptions/term licenses), we allocate and defer revenue for the undelivered items based on vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value of the undelivered elements, and recognize revenue on the perpetual license using the residual method. We base VSOE of each element on the price for which the undelivered element is sold separately. We determine fair value of the undelivered elements based on historical evidence of our stand alone sales of these elements to third parties or from the stated renewal rate for the undelivered elements. When VSOE does not exist for undelivered items, we recognize the entire arrangement fee ratably over the applicable performance period. Revenue from non software license fees is recognized over the expected life of the continued involvement with the customer. Royalty revenue is recognized when earned. Revenue generated from fixed price service contracts not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment is recognized as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, our price is fixed or determinable, and we have determined collectability is reasonably assured. Costs on these fixed price service contracts are expensed as incurred, unless they otherwise qualify for deferral. There were no costs 32Table of Contentsdeferred on fixed price service contracts at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. We apply the separation guidance under GAAP for contracts with multiple deliverables. We analyze revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables to determine if the deliverables should be divided into more than one unit of accounting. For contracts with more than one unit of accounting, we allocate the consideration we receive among the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices, which we determine based on prices of the deliverables as sold on a stand alone basis, or if not sold on a stand alone basis, the prices we would charge if sold on a stand alone basis, and we recognize revenue for each deliverable based on the revenue recognition policies described above. Other ConsiderationsThe majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost based pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). The FAR provide guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs are unallowable. In addition, we may enter into agreements with the U.S. Government that address the allowability and allocation of costs to contracts for specific matters. Certain costs incurred in the performance of our U.S. Government contracts are required to be recorded under GAAP but are not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs are deferred and primarily include a portion of our environmental expenses, asset retirement obligations, deferred state income tax, workers compensation and certain other accruals. These costs are allocated to contracts when they are paid or otherwise agreed. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires us to make assumptions about the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. If the level of backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected. Pension and other postretirement benefit costs are allocated to our contracts as allowed costs based upon the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). The CAS requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit costs differ from the Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) requirements under GAAP. Given the inability to match with reasonable certainty individual expense and income items between the CAS and FAS requirements to determine specific recoverability, we have not estimated the incremental FAS income or expense to be recoverable under our expected future contract activity, and therefore did not defer any FAS expense for pension and other postretirement benefit plans. This resulted in $337 million of expense, $187 million of expense and $80 million of income in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, reflected in our results of operations for the difference between CAS and FAS requirements for our pension and other postretirement plans in those years. Pension CostsWe have pension plans covering the majority of our employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. We must calculate our pension costs under both CAS and FAS requirements under GAAP. The calculations under CAS and FAS require judgment. CAS prescribes the allocation to and recovery of pension costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services and the methodology to determine such costs. GAAP outlines the methodology used to determine pension expense or income for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for pension costs and its calculation methodology differ from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use long term assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of pension cost. In addition, the cash funding requirements for our pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). ERISA funding requirements use a third and different method to determine funding requirements, which is primarily based on the years expected service cost and amortization of other previously unfunded liabilities. Effective January 1, 2011, we are subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), which amended ERISA. Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven year period as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of each year. Due to the foregoing differences in requirements and calculation methodologies, our FAS pension expense or income is not indicative of the funding requirements or amount of government recovery. Additionally, the recognition of pension costs for government contractors under the CAS rules is required to be harmonized with the PPA. On December 27, 2011, the CAS Pension Harmonization Rule (CAS Harmonization) was published in the Federal Register. The new rule will impact pension costs on contracts beginning in 2013 and is effective for forward pricing purposes for contracts negotiated on or after February 27, 2012. The new rule is intended to improve the alignment of the pension cost recovered through contract pricing under CAS and the pension funding requirements under the PPA. The rule shortens the CAS amortization period for gains and losses from 15 to 10 years and will result in the use of a discount rate based on highquality corporate bonds to measure liabilities in determining the CAS pension expense. While the change in amortization period is applicable in 2013, there is a transition period for the impact of the change in liability measurement method of 0% in 2013, 25% in 2014, 50% in 2015, 75% in 2016 and 100% in 2017. CAS Harmonization is currently expected to increase 33Table of Contentspension costs under CAS, primarily in 2014 and beyond due to the liability measurement transition period included in the rule. The projected increase in our future pension costs under CAS increased our estimated cost to complete existing contracts resulting in a reduction in revenue and profit in 2011, principally on our fixed price contracts in backlog. However, since the pension cost increases occur primarily in 2014 and beyond, the impact on our current contracts was deminimus. Furthermore, since CAS Harmonization is a mandatory change in cost accounting for government contractors, we may be entitled to an equitable adjustment for some portion of the increase in costs on contracts. Because CAS Harmonization increases our future CAS recovery, it is also expected to decrease our FAS/CAS expense in 2013 and beyond. We record CAS expense in the results of our business segments. Due to the differences between FAS and CAS amounts, we also present the difference between FAS and CAS expense, referred to as our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, which is a component of our total FAS/CAS Adjustment disclosed as a separate line item in our segment results. This effectively increases or decreases the amount of total pension expense in our results of operations so such amount is equal to the FAS expense amount under GAAP. Due to the foregoing differences in requirements and calculation methodologies, our FAS pension expense or income is not indicative of the funding requirements or amount of government recovery.The assumptions in the calculations of our pension FAS expense and CAS expense, which involve significant judgment, are described below. FAS ExpenseOur long term return on plan assets (ROA) and discount rate assumptions are the key variables in determining pension expense or income and the funded status of our pension plans under GAAP. The long term ROA represents the average rate of earnings expected over the long term on the assets invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. We employ a building block approach in determining the long term ROA assumption. Historical markets are studied and long term relationships between equities and fixed income are assessed. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before long term capital market assumptions are determined. The long term ROA assumption is also established giving consideration to investment diversification, rebalancing and active management of the investment portfolio. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed periodically to assess reasonableness and appropriateness. The investment policy asset allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans, as set by the Companys Investment Committee, for the year ended December 31, 2011 were as follows: Asset Category U.S. equities 25% 40%International equities 10% 30%Fixed income securities 25% 40%Cash and cash equivalents 3% 15%Other (including private equity, real estate and absolute return funds) 0% 20% In validating the 2011 long term ROA assumption, we reviewed our pension plan asset performance since 1986. Our average actual annual rate of return since 1986 has exceeded our estimated 8.75% assumed return. Based upon these analyses and our internal investing targets, we determined our long term ROA assumption for our domestic pension plans in 2011 was 8.75%, consistent with our 2010 assumption. Our domestic pension plans actual rates of return were approximately (1)%, 11% and 17% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The difference between the actual rate of return and our long term ROA assumption is included in deferred losses. If we significantly change our long term investment allocation or strategy, then our long term ROA assumption could change. The long term ROA assumptions for foreign Pension Benefits plans are based on the asset allocations and the economic environment prevailing in the locations where the Pension Benefits plans reside. Foreign pension assets do not make up a significant portion of the total assets for all of our Pension Benefits plans. The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate assumption is determined by using a theoretical bond portfolio model consisting of bonds AA rated or better by Moodys for which the timing and amount of cash flows approximate the estimated benefit payments of our pension plans. The discount rate assumption for our domestic pension plans at December 31, 2011 is 5.00%, compared to the December 31, 2010 discount rate of 5.75% as a result of the bond environment at December 31, 2011. 34Table of ContentsAn increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the long term ROA and the discount rate assumptions would have had the following approximate impacts on 2011 pension results: (In millions) Change in assumption used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the year ended December 31, 2011 Discount rate$60Long term ROA40Change in assumption used to determine benefit obligations for the year ended December 31, 2011 Discount rate$540CAS ExpenseIn addition to providing the methodology for calculating pension costs, CAS also prescribes the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for pension costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of cost recognition is different. The key drivers of CAS pension expense include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans. Under the existing CAS rules, which continue to apply through 2012, the discount rate used to measure liabilities is required to be consistent with the long term ROA assumption, which changes infrequently given its long term nature. In addition to certain other changes, CAS Harmonization will require contractors to compare the liability under the current CAS methodology and assumptions to a liability using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds and use the greater of the two liability calculations in developing CAS expense. In addition, unlike FAS, we can only allocate pension costs for a plan under CAS until such plan is fully funded as determined under CAS requirements. When the estimated future CAS pension costs increase, the estimated CAS cost to be allocated to our contracts in the future increases. Other FAS and CAS ConsiderationsOn an annual basis, at December 31, we update our estimate of future FAS and CAS pension expense based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. Other variables that can impact the pension plans funded status and FAS and CAS expense include demographic experience such as the expected rates of salary increase, retirement age, turnover and mortality. In addition, certain pension plans provide a lump sum form of benefit that varies based upon externally determined interest rates. Assumptions for these variables are set at the beginning of the year, and are based on actual and projected plan experience. On a periodic basis, generally planned annually in the third quarter, we update our actuarial estimate of the unfunded projected benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS with final census data from the end of the prior year. The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows: (In millions) 2011 2010 2009FAS expense $(1,073) $(896) $(646)CAS expense 733 666 673FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment $(340) $(230) $27 In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly.The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $110 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was driven by a $177 million increase in our FAS expense. The $177 million increase in our FAS expense was driven primarily by the continued recognition of the 2008 losses in the market related value of assets, which had an impact of approximately $200 million. Our CAS expense increased $67 million as a result of actual versus expected asset and liability experience.The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $257 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily driven by a $250 million increase in our FAS expense. The $250 million increase in our FAS expense was driven primarily by the continued recognition of losses in the market related value of assets in 2008, which had an impact of approximately $260 million. Our CAS expense decreased $7 million as a result of actual versus expected asset and liability experience. 35Table of ContentsFor 2012 compared to 2011, we currently expect our FAS expense will increase less than our CAS expense, which will decrease the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. We expect the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to be approximately $283 million of expense driven by the lower discount rate environment and the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, described above, of the net unrecognized liability, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns, partially offset by the expected return on our contributions. This expected decrease in FAS expense in excess of CAS expense is subject to our annual update, generally planned in the third quarter, of our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS for final 2011 census data. After 2012, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is more difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2011 and taking into account CAS Harmonization which increases CAS expense in 2013 and beyond, we would expect our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment expense to decline and ultimately result in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment income. The pension and other postretirement plans investments are stated at fair value. Investments in equity securities (common and preferred) are valued at the last reported sales price when an active market exists. Investments in fixed income securities are generally valued using methods based upon market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities which are generally recognized by institutional traders. Investments in private equity funds, hedge funds and private real estate funds are estimated at fair market value which primarily utilizes net asset values reported by the investment manager or fund administrator. The pension investment team reviews independently appraised values, audited financial statements and additional pricing information to evaluate the net asset values. For the very limited group of securities and other assets for which market quotations are not readily available or for which the above valuation procedures are deemed not to reflect fair value, additional information is obtained from the investment manager and evaluated internally to determine whether any adjustments are required to reflect fair value. In addition, we had $10.8 billion and $7.9 billion of deferred losses (pre tax) in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, composed primarily of differences between actual and expected asset returns, changes in discount rates, changes in plan provisions and differences between actual and assumed demographic experience. The $2.9 billion increase in 2011 was driven primarily by the decrease in the discount rate from 5.75% at December 31, 2010 to 5.00% at December 31, 2011, as well as actual asset returns which were lower than our expected return and amortization of previous deferred losses in 2010 pension expense. To the extent we continue to experience such differences between these items, our funded status and related accrued retiree benefit obligation will change. Changes to our accrued retiree benefit obligation are initially reflected as a reduction to other comprehensive income. The deferred losses are amortized and included in future pension expense over the average employee service period of approximately 10 years at December 31, 2011. Impairment of GoodwillWe evaluate goodwill for impairment annually on the first day of the fourth quarter and in any interim period in which circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, the loss of significant business, significant decreases in federal government appropriations or funding for our contracts, or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. No events occurred during the periods presented that indicated the existence of an impairment with respect to our goodwill. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model based on our most recent long range plan, and compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. We discount the cash flow forecasts using the weighted average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. The weighted average cost of capital is comprised of the estimated required rate of return on equity, based on publicly available data for peer companies, plus an equity risk premium related to specific company risk factors, and the after tax rate of return on debt, weighted at the relative values of the estimated debt and equity for the industry. Preparation of forecasts for use in the long range plan and the selection of the discount rate involve significant judgments that we base primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements and general market conditions. Significant changes in these forecasts or the discount rate selected could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. The combined estimated fair value of all of our reporting units from our DCF model often results in a premium over our market capitalization, commonly referred to as a control premium. We believe our control premium is reasonable based upon historic data of premiums paid on actual transactions within our industry. When available and as appropriate, we also use comparative market multiples to corroborate our DCF model results. There was no indication of goodwill impairment as a result of our 2011 impairment analysis. The fair values of each of our reporting units exceeded their respective net book values, including goodwill. Based upon our 2011 impairment analysis, the reporting unit that was closest to impairment had a fair value in excess of net book value, including goodwill, of more than 10%. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the future, it could materially affect our results of operations.36Table of ContentsCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Selected consolidated results were as follows: % of Total Net Sales(In millions, except percentages and per share data)2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009Net sales Products$20,786 $21,386 $21,761 83.6 % 84.9 % 87.5 %Services4,071 3,797 3,120 16.4 % 15.1 % 12.5 %Total net sales24,857 25,183 24,881 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 %Operating expenses Cost of sales Products16,275 17,022 17,071 65.5 % 67.6 % 68.6 %Services3,422 3,281 2,676 13.8 % 13.0 % 10.8 %Total cost of sales19,697 20,303 19,747 79.2 % 80.6 % 79.4 %Administrative and selling expenses1,678 1,648 1,527 6.8 % 6.5 % 6.1 %Research and development expenses625 625 565 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.3 %Total operating expenses22,000 22,576 21,839 88.5 % 89.6 % 87.8 %Operating income2,857 2,607 3,042 11.5 % 10.4 % 12.2 %Non operating (income) expense Interest expense172 126 123 0.7 % 0.5 % 0.5 %Interest income(17) (16) (14) (0.1)% (0.1)% (0.1)%Other (income) expense12 65 3 % 0.3 % %Non operating (income) expense, net167 175 112 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.5 %Federal and foreign income taxes793 589 953 3.2 % 2.3 % 3.8 %Income from continuing operations1,897 1,843 1,977 7.6 % 7.3 % 7.9 %Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax(1) 36 (1) % 0.1 % %Net income1,896 1,879 1,976 7.6 % 7.5 % 7.9 %Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries30 39 41 0.1 % 0.2 % 0.2 %Net income attributable to Raytheon Company$1,866 $1,840 $1,935 7.5 % 7.3 % 7.8 %Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders$5.28 $4.79 $4.89 Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders 0.10 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders5.28 4.88 4.89 Total Net SalesThe composition of external net sales by product and services for each segment in 2011 was approximately the following:External Net Sales by Products and Services (% of segment total net external sales) IDSIISMSNCSSASTSProducts95%80%100%90%90%15%Services5%20%%10%10%85%Total Net Sales 2011 vs. 2010The decrease in total net sales of $326 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to lower external net sales of $492 million at IDS, $380 million at NCS and $143 million at TS, partially offset by higher external net sales of $501 million at SAS and $259 million at IIS. The decrease in external net sales at IDS was primarily due to lower net sales from the scheduled completion of certain design and production phases on a U.S. Navy combat systems program and the deferment of certain work due to the U.S. Navys extension of the program schedule and lower net sales, as planned, on an 37Table of Contentsinternational Patriot program driven by the completion of scheduled design and certain production efforts. The decrease in external net sales at NCS was primarily due to lower net sales on U.S. Army sensor programs due to a planned decline in production, lower net sales on a combat vehicle sensor program, due to a program restructuring and related termination for convenience, and lower net sales on a U.S. Army radar support program, principally due to the completion of significant upgrade efforts, partially offset by higher net sales on numerous programs, including acoustic sensor system sales and combat vehicle sensor program sales for domestic and international customers. The decrease in external net sales at TS was primarily due to lower net sales on a Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) program which completed significant efforts at the end of 2010 and lower net sales on training programs, principally domestic training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities due to a decrease in customer determined activity levels, partially offset by higher net sales on various depot services operations programs, driven primarily by new contract awards. The increase in external net sales at SAS was primarily due to higher net sales related to RAST, which we acquired in the first quarter of 2011, higher volume on intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems programs due to increased bookings over the last few years driven by customer demand for these capabilities, and higher volume, as production work increased, as planned, on an international airborne tactical radar program awarded in the first half of 2010. The increase in external net sales at IIS was primarily due to the difference in net sales from the U.K. Border Agency (UKBA) program on which Raytheon Systems Limited (RSL) was notified of its termination in the second quarter of 2010 (UKBA Program), as described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 65. Net sales from the UKBA Program in 2011 were higher than 2010 by $240 million, primarily driven by the adjustment recorded in the second quarter of 2010 from a change in our estimated revenue and costs (UKBA Program Adjustment), which negatively impacted sales by $316 million. Also included in the increase in external net sales at IIS was higher net sales on a GPS command, control, and mission capabilities program awarded in the first quarter of 2010, primarily as a result of scheduled design and build efforts.Products and Services Net Sales 2011 vs. 2010The decrease in product net sales of $600 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to lower external product net sales of $427 million at NCS, $391 million at IDS and $129 million at MS, partially offset by higher external product net sales of $328 million at SAS. The decrease in external product net sales at IDS and NCS and the increase in external product net sales at SAS were primarily due to the activity in the programs described above. The decrease in external product net sales at MS was primarily due to lower net sales on the Standard Missile 2 (SM 2), Evolved Seasparrow Missile (ESSM) and Standard Missile 3 (SM 3) programs, principally from lower volume driven by scheduled lower production build rates. The decrease in external product net sales at MS was partially offset by higher net sales on the Small Diameter Bomb II (SDB II) and Paveway programs, principally from higher volume due to scheduled increases in design and production efforts. The increase in service net sales of $274 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to higher external service net sales of $202 million at IIS and $173 million at SAS, partially offset by lower external service net sales of $101 million at IDS. The increase in external service net sales at IIS was primarily due to higher service net sales on classified programs. The increase in external service net sales at SAS was primarily due to increased volume on intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems programs and higher service net sales related to RAST. The decrease in external service net sales at IDS was spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver.Total Net Sales 2010 vs. 2009The increase in total net sales of $302 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher external net sales of $282 million at TS, $273 million at SAS and $134 million at MS, partially offset by lower external net sales of $442 million at IIS. The increase in external net sales at TS was primarily due to higher net sales from growth on TS training programs, principally domestic and foreign training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities due to an increase in customer determined activity levels, and higher net sales from programs with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), driven primarily by system integration efforts on a program awarded in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in external net sales at SAS was primarily due to higher volume, as planned, as work increased on certain classified business awarded principally in the first half of 2009, higher net sales on a multi spectral targeting system program driven by increased planned production efforts to meet the program delivery schedule and higher net sales from higher volume, as planned, as production work increased on an international airborne tactical radar program awarded in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in external net sales at SAS was partially offset by lower net sales from lower volume, as planned, as an advanced targeting program moved toward completion. The increase in external net sales at MS was primarily due to higher net sales on SM 3, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled development efforts, the Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missile (AMRAAM) program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled higher production build rates, higher net sales on the tube launched, optically tracked, wireless guided (TOW) missile program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled higher production build rates, and higher net sales on the Paveway program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled production efforts on an international award. The increase in external net sales at MS was partially offset by lower net sales on a non line of sight missile program, principally from lower volume as the program received a stop work order in the second quarter of 2010, and lower net sales on the KEI program, which was terminated for convenience in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease in external net sales at IIS was primarily due to $385 million of lower net sales on the UKBA Program, as described above and in Commitments and Contingencies on page 65, driven principally by the $316 38Table of Contentsmillion adjustment recorded in the second quarter of 2010 from a change in our estimated revenue and costs. Products and Services Net Sales 2010 vs. 2009The decrease in product net sales of $375 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to lower external product net sales of $576 million at IIS primarily due to lower net sales on the UKBA Program, described above, partially offset by higher external product net sales of $179 million at SAS and $137 million at MS, both principally due to the activity in the programs described above. The increase in service net sales of $677 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher external service net sales of $312 million at TS, principally due to higher service net sales from growth on TS training programs described above, $144 million at NCS, principally due to higher service net sales related to command and control systems programs, and $136 million at IIS, principally due to higher service net sales on classified programs. Sales to Major CustomersSales to the DoD were 82%, 85% and 84% of total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to the U.S. Government were 86% of total net sales in 2011, and 88% of total net sales in 2010 and 2009. Included in both DoD and U.S. Government sales were foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $3.0 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.8 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As described above in Industry Considerations, U.S. defense spending levels are difficult to predict due to numerous factors, including U.S. Government budget appropriation decisions and geo political events and macroeconomic conditions. Total international sales, including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, were $6.2 billion or 25% of total net sales, $5.8 billion or 23% of total net sales and $5.3 billion or 21% of total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.Total Cost of SalesCost of sales, for both products and services, consists of material, labor, and subcontract costs, as well as related allocated costs. For each of our contracts, we manage the nature and amount of direct costs at the contract level, and manage indirect costs through cost pools as required by government accounting regulations. The estimate of the actual amount of direct costs and indirect costs form the basis for estimating our total costs at completion of the contract. Total Cost of Sales 2011 vs. 2010The decrease in total cost of sales of $606 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased external costs of $479 million at IDS, driven primarily by the activity on the U.S. Navy combat systems program and international Patriot program described above in Total Net Sales, $340 million at NCS, driven primarily by the activity on the U.S. Army sensor programs, combat vehicle sensor program and a U.S. Army radar support program described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the activity on numerous other programs, including acoustic sensor system sales and combat vehicle sensor program sales for domestic and international customers described above in Total Net Sales, and $146 million at TS driven primarily by the activity on the DTRA program and training programs described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the activity on depot services operation programs described above in Total Net Sales. The decreases in external costs were partially offset by increased external costs of $395 million at SAS driven primarily by the activity on RAST programs, the intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems programs, and the international airborne tactical radar program described above in Total Net Sales, and $150 million of higher expense in 2011 compared to 2010 related to the FAS/CAS Adjustment described below in Segment Results. Included in cost of sales in the 2011 was $80 million related to the drawdown by the UKBA on letters of credit provided by RSL (UKBA LOC Adjustment), as described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 65. Included in cost of sales in 2010 was $79 million related to the UKBA Program Adjustment described above in Total Net Sales. Products and Services Cost of Sales 2011 vs. 2010The decrease in product cost of sales of $747 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to lower external product cost of sales of $384 million at IDS and $349 million at NCS, driven principally by the activity on the programs described above, $188 million at IIS, driven primarily by activity on the UKBA Program described above in Total Net Sales and lower external product net sales on various classified programs, and $152 million at MS, driven principally by the activity on the programs described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease in product cost of sales was partially offset by higher external product cost of sales of $266 million at SAS, driven primarily by the activity in the programs described above. The increase in service cost of sales of $141 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to higher external service cost of sales of $129 million at SAS, driven principally by the activity on intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems programs and RAST described above in Total Net Sales, and $118 million at IIS, driven principally by the activity on classified programs described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in service cost of sales was partially offset by lower external service cost of sales of $95 million at IDS, which was spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver.Total Cost of Sales 2010 vs. 2009The increase in total cost of sales of $556 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to increased external costs of $219 million at SAS, driven primarily by the activity on certain classified business and the multi spectral targeting system program described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the activity on the advanced targeting program described above in Total Net Sales, $194 million at TS, driven primarily by the activity on TS training 39Table of Contentsprograms and the programs with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) described above in Total Net Sales, and higher expense of $267 million related to the FAS/CAS Adjustment described below in Segment Results. Products and Services Cost of Sales 2010 vs. 2009Product cost of sales in 2010 remained relatively consistent compared to 2009. The increase of $605 million in service cost of sales was primarily due to higher external service costs of sales of $229 million at TS, principally from the activity in training programs described above, $152 million at IIS, principally from the activity on classified programs described above in Total Net Sales, and $120 million at NCS, principally from the activity on command and control systems programs described above in Total Net Sales.Administrative and Selling ExpensesThe increase in administrative and selling expenses of $30 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to $62 million of acquisition related expenses and $35 million of increased marketing and selling costs, the largest increase of which was for opportunities on electronic warfare, airborne radar programs, NASA programs and certain classified programs, partially offset by a decrease of $43 million in state income tax. Administrative and selling expenses remained relatively consistent as a percentage of sales in 2010 compared to 2009. The provision for state income taxes can generally be recovered through the pricing of products and services to the U.S. Government. Net state income taxes allocated to our contracts were $16 million, $59 million and $25 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.Research and Development ExpensesResearch and development expenses remained relatively consistent as a percent of total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Total Operating ExpensesThe decrease in total operating expenses of $576 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the decrease in cost of sales of $606 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Cost of Sales, partially offset by the increase in administrative and selling expenses of $30 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Administrative and Selling Expenses. The increase in total operating expenses of $737 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the increase in cost of sales of $556 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Cost of Sales.Operating IncomeThe increase in operating income of $250 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the decrease in operating expenses of $576 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Operating Expenses. The decrease in operating income of $435 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the increase in operating expenses of $737 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Operating Expenses, partially offset by the increase in total net sales of $302 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Total Net Sales.Non Operating (Income) Expense, NetThe decrease in non operating (income) expense, net of $8 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the $73 million pretax charge associated with the make whole provision on the early repurchase of long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2010, partially offset by $46 million of higher interest expense, principally due to the issuance of $2.0 billion of fixed rate long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2010, and an $18 million change in the fair value of investments held in rabbi trusts associated with certain of our non qualified deferred compensation plans due to a net loss of $1 million in 2011 compared to a net gain of $17 million in 2010. The increase in non operating (income) expense, net of $63 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $73 million pretax charge associated with the make whole provision on the early repurchase of long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to the $22 million pretax charge associated with the make whole provision on the early repurchase of long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2009, and an $11 million change in the fair value of investments held in rabbi trusts associated with certain of our non qualified deferred compensation plans due to a net gain of $17 million in 2010 compared to a net gain of $28 million in 2009.40Table of ContentsFederal and Foreign Income TaxesOur effective tax rate, which is used to determine federal and foreign income tax expense, differs from the U.S. statutory rate due to the following: 2011 2010 2009Statutory tax rate35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 %Research and development tax credit(1.0)% (1.1)% (0.9)%Tax settlements and refund claims(2.6)% (8.0)% (0.9)%Domestic manufacturing deduction benefit(1.8)% (1.7)% (0.9)%Foreign income tax rate differential0.2 % 0.8 % 0.1 %Other items, net(0.3)% (0.8)% 0.1 %Effective tax rate29.5 % 24.2 % 32.5 %Our effective tax rate reflects the 35% U.S. statutory rate adjusted for various permanent differences between book and tax reporting. As of December 31, 2011, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had completed their examination of our tax returns through 2008. During 2011, we received final approval from the IRS and the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation of our Minimum Tax Refund claim for the 20062008 IRS examination cycle (2011 Tax Settlement). During 2010, we received final approval from the IRS and the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation for the 19982005 IRS examination cycle (2010 Tax Settlement). The increase in our effective tax rate of 5.3% in 2011 was primarily due to the difference between the 2010 and 2011 Tax Settlement amounts, which changed the rate by approximately 5.4%. Our effective tax rate in 2010 was 8.3% lower than 2009 primarily due to the 2010 Tax Settlement, which decreased our tax expense from continuing operations by $170 million in 2010, partially offset by the change in mix of jurisdictional income, as a result of the UKBA Program termination, reflected in the table above. Our effective tax rate in 2011 was lower than the statutory federal tax rate primarily due to the 2011 Tax Settlement, which decreased the rate by approximately 2.6%, the domestic manufacturing deduction, which decreased the rate by approximately 1.8%, and the U.S. research and development tax credit, which decreased the rate by approximately 1.0%. Our effective tax rate in 2010 was lower than the statutory federal tax rate primarily due to the 2010 Tax Settlement, which decreased the rate by approximately 8.0% and the domestic manufacturing deduction, which decreased the rate by approximately 1.7%.Our effective tax rate in 2009 was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate due to the U.S. research and development tax credit, which decreased the rate by approximately 0.9%, the domestic manufacturing deduction, which decreased the rate by approximately 0.9%, and the tax benefits related to certain refund claims, including $26 million of benefits primarily related to certain U.S. and foreign research tax incentives which decreased the rate by approximately 0.9%. The increase in federal and foreign income taxes of $204 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the difference between the 2010 and 2011 Tax Settlement amounts described above and higher income from continuing operations before taxes. The decrease in federal and foreign income taxes of $364 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the 2010 Tax Settlement described above, and lower income from continuing operations before taxes.Income from Continuing OperationsIncome from continuing operations was $1,897 million, $1,843 million and $1,977 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in income from continuing operations of $54 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the $250 million increase in operating income described above and the $8 million decrease in non operating expenses, net, the primary drivers of which are described above in Non Operating (Income) Expense, Net, partially offset by the $204 million increase in federal and foreign income taxes, the primary drivers of which are described above in Federal and Foreign Income Taxes. The decrease in income from continuing operations of $134 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the $435 million decrease in operating income described above and the $63 million increase in non operating expenses, net, the primary drivers of which are described above in Non Operating (Income) Expenses, Net, partially offset by the $364 million decrease in federal and foreign income taxes, the primary drivers of which are described above in Federal and Foreign Income Taxes. Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of TaxThe decrease in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $37 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily 41Table of Contentsdue to the 2010 Tax Settlement, described above, which included an $89 million decrease in tax expense from discontinued operations, primarily related to our previous disposition of Raytheon Engineers and Constructors (RE&C), partially offset by a $39 million, net of the federal tax benefit, excise tax assessment in 2010 related to our previous disposition of Flight Options LLC (Flight Options), described below in Discontinued Operations. The increase in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $37 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the 2010 Tax Settlement, described above, which included an $89 million decrease in tax expense from discontinued operations, primarily related to our previous disposition of RE&C. The increase was partially offset by a $39 million, net of the federal tax benefit, excise tax assessment in 2010 related to our previous disposition of Flight Options LLC (Flight Options), described below in Discontinued Operations. Net IncomeNet income was $1,896 million, $1,879 million and $1,976 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in net income of $17 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the increase in income from continuing operations of $54 million described above, partially offset by the decrease in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $37 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. The decrease in net income of $97 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the decrease in income from continuing operations of $134 million described above, partially offset by the increase in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $37 million, the primary drivers of which are described above in Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax.Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common StockholdersChanges in diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders were driven by the following items:(In millions, except per share amounts)2011 2010 2009Income from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company$1,867 $1,804 $1,936Diluted weighted average shares outstanding353.6 377.0 395.7Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company$5.28 $4.79 $4.89The changes in diluted weighted average shares were driven by the common stock share activity below.(Shares in millions)2011 2010 2009Beginning balance359.4 377.9 400.1Warrants exercised3.3 6.7 Stock plan activity3.3 3.8 3.6Treasury stock repurchases(27.1) (29.0) (25.8)Ending balance338.9 359.4 377.9 Warrants to purchase shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $37.50 per share, were included in our calculations of diluted EPS at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. These warrants expired in June 2011. Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common StockholdersDiluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was a loss of less than $0.01 in 2011, earnings of $0.10 in 2010, and a loss of less $0.01 in 2009. The decrease in diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.10 in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the activity described above in Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. The increase in diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.10 in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the activity described above in Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. Diluted Earnings per Share Attributable to Raytheon Company Common StockholdersDiluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders was $5.28 in 2011, $4.88 in 2010 and $4.89 in 2009. The increase in diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.40 in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the decrease in diluted shares, partially offset by the decrease in Diluted Earnings 42Table of Contents(Loss) per Share from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders described above. The decrease in diluted earnings per share attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders of $0.01 in 2010 compared to 2009 was due to the decrease in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders, partially offset by the increase in Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Raytheon Company Common Stockholders described above.Adjusted EPSAdjusted EPS is diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders excluding the earnings per share impact of the FAS/CAS Adjustment and, from time to time, certain other items. In addition to the FAS/CAS Adjustment, our 2011 Adjusted EPS also excludes the earnings per share impact of the 2011 Tax Settlement, and the UKBA LOC Adjustment tax effected at the 2011 U.K. statutory tax rate of approximately 25%, as described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 65. In addition to the FAS/CAS Adjustment, our 2010 Adjusted EPS also excludes the earnings per share impact of the 2010 Tax Settlement, and the UKBA Program Adjustment tax effected at the 2010 U.K. statutory rate of approximately 28%, and the make whole provision on the early repurchase of debt, all previously described, and the impact of the acceleration of deferred gains related to the terminated interest rate swaps on the retired debt. In addition to the FAS/CAS Adjustment, our 2009 Adjusted EPS also excludes the earnings per share impact of the make whole provision on the early repurchase of debt and the impact of the acceleration of deferred gains related to the terminated interest rate swaps on the retired debt. We are providing Adjusted EPS because management uses it for the purpose of evaluating and forecasting the Companys financial performance and believes that it provides additional insights into the Companys underlying business performance. We believe it allows investors to benefit from being able to assess our operating performance in the context of how our principal customer, the U.S. Government, allows us to recover pension costs and to better compare our operating performance to others in the industry on that same basis. Adjusted EPS is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for financial performance in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EPS may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner and the amounts presented may not recalculate directly due to rounding. Unless otherwise previously noted, the items in Adjusted EPS are tax effected at the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. Adjusted EPS was as follows: 2011 2010 2009Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders$5.28 $4.79 $4.89Earnings per share impact of the FAS/CAS Adjustment0.62 0.32 (0.13)Earnings per share impact of the UKBA Program Adjustment 0.75 Earnings per share impact of UKBA LOC Adjustment0.17 Earnings per share impact of the Tax Settlements(0.17) (0.45) Earnings per share impact of the early retirement of debt charges 0.13 0.04Earnings per share impact of the acceleration of deferred gains related to terminated interest rate swaps on retired debt (0.03) (0.01)Adjusted EPS$5.90 $5.51 $4.79SEGMENT RESULTSWe report our results in the following segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS), Space and Airborne Systems (SAS), and Technical Services (TS). The following provides some context for viewing our segment performance through the eyes of management. Given the nature of our business, bookings, net sales, and operating income (including operating margin percentage), which we disclose and discuss at the segment level, are most relevant to an understanding of managements view of our segment performance, and often these measures have significant interrelated effects as described below. In addition, we disclose and discuss backlog, which represents future sales that we expect to recognize over the contract period, which is generally the next several years. We also disclose cost of sales and the components of costs of sales within our segment disclosures. BookingsWe disclose the amount of bookings for each segment and notable contract awards. Bookings generally represent the dollar value of new contracts awarded to us during the reporting period and include firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated. We believe bookings are an important measure of future performance and are an indicator of potential future changes in net sales, since we cannot record revenues under a new contract without first having a booking in the current or preceding period (i.e., a contract award). Total Net SalesWe generally express changes in net sales in terms of volume. Volume generally refers to increases or 43Table of Contentsdecreases in revenues related to varying amounts of total operating expenses, which are comprised of cost of sales, administrative and selling expenses, and research and development expenses, incurred on individual contracts (i.e., from performance against contractual commitments on our bookings related to engineering, production or service activity). Therefore, we discuss volume changes attributable principally to individual programs unless there is a discrete event (e.g., a major contract termination, natural disaster or major labor strike), or some other unusual item that has a material effect on changes in a segments volume for a reported period. Due to the nature of our contracts, the amount of costs incurred and related revenues will naturally fluctuate over the lives of the contracts. As a result, in any reporting period, the changes in volume on numerous contracts are likely to be due to normal fluctuations in our engineering, production or service activities. Operating ExpensesWe generally disclose operating expenses for each segment in terms of the following: 1) cost of sales labor; 2) cost of sales material and subcontractors; and 3) other costs of sales and other operating expenses. Included in cost of sales labor is the incurred direct labor associated with the performance of contracts in the current period and any applicable overhead and fringe costs. Included in cost of sales material and subcontractors is the incurred direct materials, subcontractor costs (which include effort performed by other Raytheon segments), and applicable overhead allocations in the current period. Included in other cost of sales and other operating expenses is other direct costs not captured in labor or material and subcontractor costs, such as precontract costs previously deferred, costs previously deferred into inventory on contracts using commercial or units of delivery accounting, applicable overhead allocations, general and administrative costs, research and development costs, (including bid and proposal costs) and adjustments for loss contracts.Operating Income (and the related operating margin percentage)We generally express changes in segment operating income in terms of volume, changes in net Estimate at Completion (EAC) adjustments or changes in contract mix and other program performance. The operating income impact of changes in volume excludes the impact of net EAC adjustments and the impact of changes in contract mix and other program performance and are driven by changes in costs on individual programs at an overall margin for the segment.Changes in net EAC adjustments typically relate to the current period impact of revisions to total estimated revenues and costs at completion. These changes reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. Raytheon has a Company wide standard and disciplined quarterly EAC process in which management reviews the progress and performance of our contracts. As part of this process, management reviews include, but are not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. The risks and opportunities include managements judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the schedule (for example, the number and type of milestone events), technical requirements (for example, a newly developed product versus a mature product), and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the contract (to estimate increases in wages and prices for materials and related support cost allocations), performance by our subcontractors, the availability and timing of funding from our customer, and overhead cost rates, among other variables. These estimates also include the estimated cost of satisfying our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset obligations required under certain contracts. Based on this analysis, any adjustments to net sales, costs of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. These adjustments may result from positive program performance and an increase in operating profit during the performance of individual contracts if we determine we will be successful in mitigating risks surrounding the technical, schedule, and cost aspects of those contracts or realizing related opportunities. Likewise, these adjustments may result in a decrease in operating profit if we determine we will not be successful in mitigating these risks or realizing related opportunities. Changes in estimates of net sales, costs of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recognized using a cumulative catch up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods based on a contracts percent complete. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. Given that we have over 15,000 individual contracts and the types and complexity of the assumptions and estimates we must make on an on going basis, as discussed above, we have both favorable and unfavorable EAC adjustments. We had the following aggregate EAC adjustments for the periods presented:EAC Adjustments (In millions)2011 2010 2009Gross favorable$1,041 $968 $875Gross unfavorable(493) (810) (433) Total net EAC adjustments$548 $158 $44244Table of ContentsThere was one significant individual EAC adjustment for the UKBA LOC Adjustment of $80 million in 2011 and there were two significant individual EAC adjustments, the UKBA Program Adjustment for $395 million and an NCS EAC adjustment for $28 million in 2010 as described more fully on page 53.The $390 million increase in net EAC adjustments in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the impact of the UKBA Program Adjustment and UKBA LOC Adjustment described above.The $284 million decrease in net EAC adjustments in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the impact of the UKBA Program Adjustment described above. Changes in contract mix and other program performance refer to changes in operating margin due to a change in the relative volume of contracts with higher or lower fee rates such that the overall average margin rate for the segment changes and other drivers of program performance, including margin rate increases or decreases due to EAC adjustments in prior periods and the effect of non revenue generating costs. A higher or lower expected fee rate at the initial award of a contract typically correlates to the contracts risk profile, which is often specifically driven by the type of customer and related procurement regulations, the type of contract (for example, fixed price vs. cost plus), the maturity of the product or service, and the scope of work.Because each segment has thousands of contracts in any reporting period, changes in operating income and margin are likely to be due to normal changes in volume, net EAC adjustments, and contract mix and other performance on many contracts with no single change, or series of related changes, materially driving a segments change in operating income or operating margin percentage.BacklogWe disclose period ending backlog for each segment. Backlog represents the dollar value of contracts awarded for which work has not been performed. Backlog generally increases with bookings and generally converts into sales as we incur costs under the related contractual commitments. Therefore, we discuss changes in backlog, including any significant cancellations, for each of our segments, as we believe such discussion provides an understanding of the awarded but not executed portions of our contracts. Segment financial results were as follows: Total Net Sales (In millions)2011 2010 2009Integrated Defense Systems$4,958 $5,470 $5,525Intelligence and Information Systems3,015 2,757 3,204Missile Systems5,590 5,732 5,561Network Centric Systems4,497 4,918 4,822Space and Airborne Systems5,255 4,830 4,582Technical Services3,353 3,472 3,161Corporate and Eliminations(1,811) (1,996) (1,974)Total$24,857 $25,183 $24,881Operating Income (In millions)2011 2010 2009Integrated Defense Systems$836 $870 $847Intelligence and Information Systems159 (157) 252Missile Systems693 650 599Network Centric Systems667 692 663Space and Airborne Systems717 676 635Technical Services312 297 212FAS/CAS Adjustment(337) (187) 80Corporate and Eliminations(190) (234) (246)Total$2,857 $2,607 $3,04245Table of ContentsBookings (In millions)2011 2010 2009Integrated Defense Systems$6,392 $3,269 $5,969Intelligence and Information Systems3,217 3,709 2,529Missile Systems5,948 6,485 5,548Network Centric Systems3,632 4,034 3,933Space and Airborne Systems4,592 4,321 4,446Technical Services2,774 2,631 2,633Total$26,555 $24,449 $25,058Included in bookings were international bookings of $7,692 million, $4,371 million and $7,634 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which included foreign military bookings through the U.S. Government. International bookings amounted to 29%, 18% and 30% of total bookings in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We record bookings for not to exceed contract awards based on reasonable estimates of expected contract definitization, which will generally not be less than 75% of the award. We subsequently adjust bookings to reflect the actual amounts definitized, or, when prior to definitization, when facts and circumstances indicate our previous estimates are no longer reasonable. The timing of awards that may cover multiple fiscal years influences the size of bookings in each year. Bookings exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g., indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) type contracts), and are reduced for contract cancellations and terminations of bookings recognized in the current year. We reflect contract cancellations and terminations from prior year bookings, as well as the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, directly as an adjustment to backlog in the period in which the cancellation or termination occurs and the impact is determinable. Funded Backlog Total BacklogBacklog at December 31 (In millions)2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009Integrated Defense Systems$7,100 $6,433 $5,595 $9,766 $8,473 $10,665Intelligence and Information Systems829 725 1,588 4,366 4,319 4,360Missile Systems6,205 6,385 6,454 8,570 8,212 7,657Network Centric Systems3,267 3,740 4,389 4,160 4,912 5,501Space and Airborne Systems3,104 3,266 3,402 5,864 5,981 5,921Technical Services1,957 2,083 2,051 2,586 2,654 2,773Total$22,462 $22,632 $23,479 $35,312 $34,551 $36,877 Total backlog includes both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated and or contractually obligated by the customer). Revenue is generally not recognized on backlog until funded. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g., IDIQ). Both funded and unfunded backlog are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. In 2010, IIS recorded a net backlog adjustment of $556 million as a result of the UKBA Program. 46Table of ContentsIntegrated Defense Systems % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Total Net Sales$4,958 $5,470 $5,525 (9.4)% (1.0)%Operating Expenses Cost of sales labor1,813 1,910 1,887 (5.1)% 1.2 %Cost of sales materials and subcontractors1,613 2,006 2,127 (19.6)% (5.7)%Other cost of sales and other operating expenses696 684 664 1.8 % 3.0 %Total Operating Expenses4,122 4,600 4,678 (10.4)% (1.7)%Operating Income$836 $870 $847 (3.9)% 2.7 %Operating Margin16.9% 15.9% 15.3% Change in Operating Income Year Ended 2011 Versus Year Ended 2010 Year Ended 2010 Versus Year Ended 2009 (In millions) Change Change Volume $(73) $(11) Net change in EAC adjustments 34 18 Mix and other performance 5 16 Total change in operating income $(34) $23 % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Bookings$6,392 $3,269 $5,969 95.5% (45.2)%Total Backlog9,766 8,473 10,665 15.3% (20.6)%IDS is a leading provider of integrated air and missile defense, radar solutions, and naval combat and ship electronic systems. Through world class mission systems integration and technology expertise, IDS delivers combat proven performance against the complete spectrum of airborne and ballistic missile threats and is a world leader in large scale radar development, technology and production. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force, and Missile Defense Agency (MDA) and numerous international customers.Total Net SalesThe decrease in net sales of $512 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to $316 million of lower net sales from the scheduled completion of certain design and production phases on a U.S. Navy combat systems program and the deferment of certain work due to the U.S. Navys extension of the program schedule, and $175 million of lower net sales, as planned, on an international Patriot program driven principally by lower volume due to completion of scheduled design and certain production efforts.The decrease in net sales of $55 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $243 million of lower net sales on various U.S. Navy programs due to scheduled completion of design and production efforts, including $175 million from the scheduled completion of certain design phases on a U.S. Navy combat systems program, and $211 million of lower net sales on two joint battlefield sensor programs, driven principally by lower volume due to the completion of scheduled program production efforts and a scheduled decrease in design and development effort. The decrease in net sales was partially offset by $383 million of higher net sales on Patriot programs, primarily due to $288 million of higher net sales driven by scheduled design and production effort on an international Patriot program awarded in the fourth quarter of 2008. Total Operating ExpensesThe decrease in operating expenses of $478 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the decreased volume on a U.S. Navy combat systems program and an international Patriot program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease in materials and subcontractor costs of $393 million was driven primarily by the 47Table of Contentsdecreased volume on these programs and the types of costs incurred in the respective periods based on the program requirements and program schedules. The decrease in labor costs of $97 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to lower net sales on numerous missile defense programs, driven principally by lower volume due to the completion of scheduled program design, development and production efforts, and decreased volume on a U.S. Navy combat systems program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales.The decrease in operating expenses of $78 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the decreased volume on various U.S. Navy programs, including a U.S. Navy combat systems program, and two joint battlefield sensor programs for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by activity on Patriot programs, including an international Patriot program, for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease in materials and subcontractor costs of $121 million was driven primarily by the change in volume on these programs and the types of costs incurred in the respective periods based on the requirements and schedules for these programs. Operating Income and MarginThe decrease in operating income of $34 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased volume of $73 million, principally driven by the programs described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by a net change in EAC adjustments of $34 million, driven primarily by the amount of EAC adjustments on a U.S. Navy combat systems program. The increase in operating margin in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments described above.The increase in operating income of $23 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a net change in EAC adjustments of $18 million, which was spread over numerous programs, and a change in contract mix and other performance, which had a $16 million impact on operating income, principally driven by the programs described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by a decrease in volume, which had an impact of $11 million. The increase in operating margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments and the change in contract mix and other performance described above. Backlog and BookingsThe increase in backlog of $1,293 million at December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 was primarily due to higher bookings in 2011 described below. The decrease in backlog of $2,192 million at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to lower bookings in 2010 described below. Bookings increased $3,123 million in 2011 compared to 2010. IDS booked $3,147 million for the Patriot Air and Missile Defense System, including $1,698 million for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, $560 million for Taiwan, $340 million for other international customers, and $257 million to provide engineering services support for U.S. and international customers. IDS booked $1,027 million for U.S. Army/U.S. Navy Transportable Radar Surveillance (AN/TPY 2) radars, spares and training for the UAE, MDA and U.S. Army. IDS also booked $345 million on the Zumwalt class destroyer program for the U.S. Navy, $268 million for the production of ALFS systems and spares for the U.S. Navy and the Australian Navy, $193 million to provide Common Contractor Logistics Support (CCLS) for the MDA, and $107 million for development on the competitively awarded Space Fence program for the U.S. Air Force. Bookings decreased $2,700 million in 2010 compared to 2009. In 2010, IDS booked $400 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for an international customer, $271 million on the Zumwalt class destroyer program for the U.S. Navy, $228 million on the Aegis weapon system for the U.S. Navy, $222 million to provide engineering services support for a Patriot air and missile defense program for U.S. and international customers, $190 million for AN/TPY 2 radar for the MDA, $148 million to provide CCLS for the MDA, $131 million to provide Patriot Guidance Enhanced Missile Tactical (GEM T) missiles for Kuwait, and $112 million on the Air & Missile Defense Radar (AMDR) program for the U.S. Navy. In 2009, IDS booked $3.2 billion to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for several domestic and international customers, including the U.S. Army, Taiwan and UAE. IDS also booked $650 million on the Zumwalt class destroyer program, $157 million to provide Finland with Surface Launched Medium Range Air to Air Missile (SL AMRAAM) systems and $150 million for Joint Land Attack Cruise Missile Defense Elevated Netted Sensor Systems (JLENS) for the U.S. Army.48Table of ContentsIntelligence and Information Systems % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Total Net Sales$3,015 $2,757 $3,204 9.4 % (14.0)%Operating Expenses Cost of sales labor1,214 1,232 1,228 (1.5)% 0.3 %Cost of sales materials and subcontractors1,138 1,169 1,322 (2.7)% (11.6)%Other cost of sales and other operating expenses504 513 402 (1.8)% 27.6 %Total Operating Expenses2,856 2,914 2,952 (2.0)% (1.3)%Operating Income$159 $(157) $252 201.3 % (162.3)%Operating Margin5.3% (5.7)% 7.9% Change in Operating Income Year Ended 2011 Versus Year Ended 2010 Year Ended 2010 Versus Year Ended 2009 (In millions) Change Change Volume $(12) $(6) Net change in EAC adjustments 297 (379) Mix and other performance 31 (24) Total change in operating income $316 $(409) % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Bookings$3,217 $3,709 $2,529 (13.3)% 46.7 %Total Backlog4,366 4,319 4,360 1.1 % (0.9)% IIS is a leader in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), advanced cyber solutions, and U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) space, weather and environmental solutions. Approximately half of its business is for classified customers. Key customers include the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD agencies, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Total Net SalesThe increase in net sales of $258 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the difference in net sales from the UKBA Program. Net sales from the UKBA Program in 2010 were lower than 2011 by $240 million, primarily due to the UKBA Program Adjustment, as described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 65, which negatively impacted 2010 net sales by $316 million. Also included in the increase in net sales was $85 million of higher net sales on a GPS command, control, and mission capabilities program awarded in the first quarter of 2010, primarily as a result of scheduled design and build efforts. The remaining change in net sales was primarily spread across numerous domestic programs.The decrease in net sales of $447 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $385 million of lower net sales on the UKBA Program driven principally by the UKBA Program Adjustment, which had a $316 million impact on net sales, $68 million of lower net sales on a distributed ground systems program for the U.S. Air Force principally from lower volume as a result of the planned program schedule, and $65 million of lower net sales on certain classified programs. The decrease in net sales was partially offset by $104 million of higher net sales, as a result of scheduled design and build efforts on a GPS command, control, and mission capabilities program. Total Operating ExpensesThe decrease in operating expenses of $58 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was driven primarily 49Table of Contentsby a reduction in operating expenses related to the UKBA Program. Included in other cost of sales and other operating expenses in 2011 was $80 million related to the UKBA LOC Adjustment, as described in Commitments and Contingencies on page 65. Included in other cost of sales and other operating expenses in 2010 was $79 million related to the UKBA Program Adjustment. The decrease in operating expenses of $38 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to lower volume on the distributed ground systems program for the U.S. Air Force and certain classified programs for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by higher volume on GPS command, control, and mission capabilities program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease of $153 million in materials and subcontractor costs in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven primarily by the net lower volume on these programs and $91 million related to lower volume on the UKBA Program. The increase of $111 million in other cost of sales and other operating expenses in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the UKBA Program Adjustment, which had a $79 million impact on operating expenses. Operating Income and MarginThe increase in operating income of $316 million and the related increase in operating margin in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to a net change in EAC adjustments of $297 million, principally driven by the UKBA Program Adjustment in 2010, which had an impact of $395 million, partially offset by the UKBA LOC Adjustment in 2011, which had an impact of $80 million. Operating income in 2011 included $21 million of legal and other period expenses in connection with the UKBA Program dispute and arbitration compared to $10 million of legal and other period costs in 2010. Operating income in 2011 included $9 million relating to an insurance recovery. IIS operating income was also reduced by approximately $14 million in 2011 and $17 million in 2010 by certain cyber security related acquisition costs and investments. The decrease in operating income of $409 million in 2010 compared to 2009 and the related decrease in operating margin was primarily due to a net change in EAC adjustments of $379 million, principally driven by $395 million related to the UKBA Program Adjustment recorded in the second quarter of 2010, partially offset by $16 million of favorable net change in EAC adjustments spread across numerous programs, and a change in contract mix and other performance of $24 million, principally driven by the UKBA Program. Operating income was also reduced by approximately $17 million in 2010 and 2009 by certain cybersecurity related acquisition costs and investments. Backlog and BookingsBacklog remained relatively consistent and was $4,366 million, $4,319 million and $4,360 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Bookings decreased $492 million in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, IIS booked $520 million on the JPSS program for NASA, $183 million on a contract to provide ISR support to the U.S. Air Force and $134 million for development on the Global Positioning System Advanced Control Segment (GPS OCX) program for the U.S. Air Force. IIS also booked $1,554 million on a number of classified contracts.Bookings increased $1,180 million in 2010 compared to 2009. In 2010, IIS booked a $901 million award on a contract to develop the next generation GPS OCX for the U.S. Air Force, a $167 million booking on a major U.S. Air Force program, $80 million on the Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) contract for NASA and $1,723 million on a number of classified contracts, including $371 million on a major classified program, compared to $1,364 million, including$148 million and $123 million on two major classified programs in 2009.In addition to the bookings related to a number of classified contracts described above, in 2009, IIS booked $158 million on a contract to provide ISR support to the U.S. Air Force.50Table of ContentsMissile Systems % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Total Net Sales$5,590 $5,732 $5,561 (2.5)% 3.1 %Operating Expenses Cost of sales labor1,662 1,725 1,757 (3.7)% (1.8)%Cost of sales materials and subcontractors2,579 2,682 2,575 (3.8)% 4.2 %Other cost of sales and other operating expenses656 675 630 (2.8)% 7.1 %Total Operating Expenses4,897 5,082 4,962 (3.6)% 2.4 %Operating Income$693 $650 $599 6.6 % 8.5 %Operating Margin12.4% 11.3% 10.8% Change in Operating Income Year Ended 2011 Versus Year Ended 2010 Year Ended 2010 Versus Year Ended 2009 (In millions) Change Change Volume $(26) $14 Net change in EAC adjustments 54 (19) Mix and other performance 15 56 Total change in operating income $43 $51 % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Bookings$5,948 $6,485 $5,548 (8.3)% 16.9%Total Backlog8,570 8,212 7,657 4.4 % 7.2% MS is a premier developer and producer of missile systems for the armed forces of the United States and other allied nations. Leveraging its capabilities in advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high resolution sensors, targeting, and netted systems, MS develops and supports a broad range of cutting edge weapon systems, including missiles, smart munitions, close in weapon systems, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles and directed energy effectors. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force and Marine Corps, the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) and the armed forces of more than 40 allied nations. Total Net SalesThe decrease in net sales of $142 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to lower net sales of $210 million on the Standard Missile 2 (SM 2) program, $90 million on the Evolved Seasparrow Missile (ESSM) program, and $70 million on the Standard Missile 3 (SM 3) program, principally from lower volume driven by scheduled lower production build rates. The decrease in net sales was partially offset by higher net sales of $92 million on the Small Diameter Bomb II (SDB II) program and $86 million on the Paveway program, principally from higher volume due to scheduled increases in design and production efforts.The increase in net sales of $171 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $108 million of higher net sales on the SM 3 program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled development efforts, $100 million of higher net sales on the Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missiles (AMRAAM) program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled higher production build rates, $92 million of higher net sales on the tube launched, optically tracked, wireless guided (TOW) missile program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled higher production build rates and $84 million of higher net sales on the Paveway program, principally from higher volume driven by scheduled production efforts on an international award. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $96 million of lower net sales on a non line of sight missile program, principally from lower volume, as the program received a stop work order in the second quarter of 2010 and $82 million of lower net sales on the KEI program, which was terminated for convenience in the second quarter of 2009 as described above. 51Table of ContentsTotal Operating ExpensesThe decrease in operating expenses of $185 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the activity on the SM 2, ESSM and SM 3 programs for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the activity in the SDB II and Paveway programs for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in operating expenses of $120 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the activity on the SM 3, AMRAAM, TOW missile and Paveway programs for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the activity on the non line of sight missile program and the KEI program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in other cost of sales and other operating expenses of $45 million was primarily due to increased independent research and development costs.Operating Income and MarginThe increase in operating income of $43 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to a net change in EAC adjustments of $54 million, principally driven by the amount of EAC adjustments on our air warfare systems programs, partially offset by lower volume of $26 million, driven principally by the programs described above in Total Net Sales. Included in EAC adjustments in 2011 was a $21 million favorable contract resolution. Included in contract mix and other performance in 2011 was a $15 million negative adjustment related to a contract settlement. The increase in operating margin in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments described above.The increase in operating income of $51 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a change in contract mix and other performance of $56 million, primarily in our air warfare systems product line due to the mix of contracts completing and new contract awards. The increase in operating margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the change in contract mix and other performance described above. Backlog and BookingsBacklog remained relatively consistent and was $8,570 million, $8,212 million and $7,657 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Bookings decreased $537 million in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, MS booked $1,402 million for the development of SM 3 for the MDA, $696 million for the production of AMRAAM for the U.S. Air Force and international customers, $393 million for production of ESSM for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $374 million for Phalanx weapon systems for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $311 million for the production of Excalibur for the U.S. Army, U.S. Marines, and an international customer, $270 million for the production of Paveway for the U.S. Air Force and international customers, $237 million for the production of SM 2 for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $225 million for a major classified program, $210 million for production of Standard Missile 6 (SM 6) for the U.S. Navy, $191 million for the production of the Joint Stand off Weapon (JSOW) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $152 million for the production of TOW missiles for the U.S. Army, and $113 million for production of Miniature Air Launch Decoy (MALD) for the U.S. Air Force.Bookings increased $937 million in 2010 compared to 2009. In 2010, MS booked $743 million for SM 3 for the MDA and an international customer, $698 million for the production of AMRAAM for the U.S. Air Force and international customers, $675 million on a classified program, $668 million for the production of Paveway for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other international customers, $501 million for the production of Tomahawk missiles for the U.S. Navy and an international customer, $451 million for engineering and manufacturing development of SDB II for the joint U.S. Air Force and U.S Navy program, $425 million for the production of SM 2 for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $274 million for the production of Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $271 million for the Phalanx Weapons System for the U.S. Navy, Army and international customers, $262 million for development work on the Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle program for the MDA, $209 million for the production of AIM 9X Sidewinder short range air to air missiles for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $198 million for the Javelin program for the U.S. Army and international customers, $168 million on the MALD for the U.S. Air Force, Army, and Navy, $147 million for ESSM for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $122 million for the production of TOW missiles for U.S. Army and international customers, and $114 million for the production of the JSOW for the U.S. Navy and international customers. In 2009, MS booked $645 million for AMRAAM systems for international customers and the U.S. Air Force, $514 million for the TOW missile program for international customers and the U.S. Army, $508 million for ESSM for international customers and the U.S. Navy and $402 million for Phalanx Weapon Systems. MS also booked $384 million on SM 2 for international customers and the U.S. Navy, $318 million for SM 3 for the MDA, and $294 million for Tactical Tomahawk cruise missiles for the U.S. Navy.52Table of ContentsNetwork Centric Systems % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Total Net Sales$4,497 $4,918 $4,822 (8.6)% 2.0 %Operating Expenses Cost of sales labor1,482 1,531 1,580 (3.2)% (3.1)%Cost of sales materials and subcontractors1,699 2,055 1,937 (17.3)% 6.1 %Other cost of sales and other operating expenses649 640 642 1.4 % (0.3)%Total Operating Expenses3,830 4,226 4,159 (9.4)% 1.6 %Operating Income$667 $692 $663 (3.6)% 4.4 %Operating Margin14.8% 14.1% 13.7% Change in Operating Income Year Ended 2011 Versus Year Ended 2010 Year Ended 2010 Versus Year Ended 2009 (In millions) Change Change Volume $(59) $13 Net change in EAC adjustments (22) 50 Mix and other performance 56 (34) Total change in operating income $(25) $29 % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Bookings$3,632 $4,034 $3,933 (10.0)% 2.6 %Total Backlog4,160 4,912 5,501 (15.3)% (10.7)% NCS is a leading provider of net centric enabled mission solutions for federal, state and local government and civil customers. NCS leverages its capabilities in networking, sensors, command and control, and communications to develop and produce solutions for customers in key markets such as U.S. Army modernization, international and domestic homeland security, civil communications, and transportation solutions. NCS customers include the Department of Defense (DoD) and other U.S. Government customers, as well as numerous international customers. Total Net SalesThe decrease in net sales of $421 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to $283 million of lower net sales on U.S. Army sensor programs due to a planned decline in production, $124 million of lower net sales on a combat vehicle sensor program, principally from lower volume due to a program restructuring and related termination for convenience, and $98 million of lower net sales on a U.S. Army radar support program, principally due to the completion of significant upgrade efforts, partially offset by higher net sales on numerous programs, including a combined $106 million on acoustic sensor system sales and combat vehicle sensor program sales for domestic and international customers. The increase in net sales of $96 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $223 million of higher net sales related to programs associated with Raytheon BBN Technologies (Raytheon BBN), which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2009, primarily due to increased DoD research activities and force protection awards, and $127 million of higher net sales, as planned due to a scheduled increase in design and production efforts on a classified international program awarded in the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $144 million of lower net sales on a U.S. Army sensor program due to a planned decline in production and $81 million of lower net sales on a combat vehicle sensor program, principally from lower volume, due to a program restructuring. Total Operating ExpensesThe decrease in operating expenses of $396 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was driven primarily by the activity on U.S. Army sensor programs, a combat vehicle sensor program and a U.S. Army radar support 53Table of Contentsprogram for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the activity on numerous programs, including acoustic sensor systems and a combat vehicle sensor program for domestic and international customers as described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease in materials and subcontractor costs of $356 million was driven primarily by the net decreased volume on the programs described above due to a planned decline in production. The increase in operating expenses of $67 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven primarily by programs associated with Raytheon BBN and a classified international program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales, partially offset by the activity on a U.S. Army sensor program and a combat vehicle sensor program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in materials and subcontractor cost of $118 million was driven primarily by the net increased volume on the programs described above, as well as $105 million on two additional production programs driven by the timing of required material costs. Operating Income and MarginThe decrease in operating income of $25 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to decreased volume, which had an impact of $59 million, principally driven by the programs described above in Total Net Sales, and a net change in EAC adjustments of $22 million, which was spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver, partially offset by a change in contract mix and other performance of $56 million, principally driven by higher domestic and international acoustic sensor systems sales. Included in operating income in 2010 was a negative EAC adjustment of $28 million relating to an infrastructure protection program as a result of a change in our estimated revenue and costs due to the termination of a subcontractor and the Companys subsequent direct assumption of that subcontractors scope of work. The increase in operating margin in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the change in contract mix and other performance and the net change in EAC adjustments described above.The increase in operating income of $29 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a net change in EAC adjustments spread across numerous programs, which had a $50 million impact on operating income, and increased volume, which had a $13 million impact on operating income, partially offset by a change in contract mix and other performance, which had a $34 million impact on operating income, driven principally by lower production volume on a U.S. Army sensor program. The increase in operating margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments and change in contract mix and other performance described above.Backlog and BookingsThe decrease in backlog of $752 million at December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 was primarily due to external sales in excess of bookings in 2011, principally within our Combat and Sensing Systems (CSS) and C4I product lines, primarily on U.S. Army programs. The decrease in backlog of $589 million at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to external sales in excess of bookings in 2010, principally within our CSS and C4I product lines, primarily on U.S. Army programs. Bookings decreased by $402 million in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, NCS booked $211 million for the production of Sentinel radars, spares and services for the U.S. Army and international customers, $146 million for the Long Range Advanced Scout Surveillance Systems (LRAS3) program for the U.S. Army, $71 million for the Thermal Weapon Sight (TWS) program for the U.S. Army and $64 million for Enhanced Position Location Reporting System (EPLRS) and MicroLight radios from the Australian Defence Materiel Organisation (DMO)Bookings in 2010 remained relatively consistent with bookings in 2009. In 2010, NCS booked $254 million on the Standard Terminal Automation Replacement System (STARS) program for the FAA and the DoD, $250 million for the LRAS3 program for the U.S. Army, $146 million on a command and control program for an international customer, $111 million for Horizontal Technology Integration (HTI) forward looking infrared kits for the U.S. Army, $104 million on the Navy Multiband Terminal (NMT) program for the U.S. Navy and $96 million for Improved Thermal Sight Systems (ITSS) for an international customer. In 2009, NCS booked $446 million on an international classified program, $163 million for Improved Target Acquisition Systems (ITAS), $146 million for HTI forward looking infrared kits, $127 million for a toll system replacement program, $117 million for Commanders Independent Viewers (CIV) and $107 million for the Secure Mobile Anti Jam Reliable Tactical Terminal (SMART T) program.54Table of ContentsSpace and Airborne Systems % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Total Net Sales$5,255 $4,830 $4,582 8.8% 5.4%Operating Expenses Cost of sales labor2,077 1,968 1,938 5.5% 1.5%Cost of sales materials and subcontractors1,820 1,632 1,475 11.5% 10.6%Other cost of sales and other operating expenses641 554 534 15.7% 3.7%Total Operating Expenses4,538 4,154 3,947 9.2% 5.2%Operating Income$717 $676 $635 6.1% 6.5%Operating Margin13.6% 14.0% 13.9% Change in Operating Income Year Ended 2011 Versus Year Ended 2010 Year Ended 2010 Versus Year Ended 2009 (In millions) Change Change Volume $43 $28 Net change in EAC adjustments 16 10 Mix and other performance (18) 3 Total change in operating income $41 $41 % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Bookings$4,592 $4,321 $4,446 6.3 % (2.8)%Total Backlog5,864 5,981 5,921 (2.0)% 1.0 % SAS is a leader in the design and development of integrated systems and solutions for advanced missions, including traditional and non traditional intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), precision engagement, unmanned aerial operations and space. Leveraging advanced concepts, state of the art technologies and mission systems knowledge, SAS provides electro optical/infrared sensors, airborne radars for surveillance and fire control applications, lasers, precision guidance systems, processors, electronic warfare systems and space qualified systems for civil and military applications. Key customers include the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army, as well as classified and international customers. Total Net SalesThe increase in net sales of $425 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to $200 million of higher net sales related to RAST, which we acquired in the first quarter of 2011, $187 million of higher volume on ISR systems programs due to increased bookings over the last few years driven by customer demand for these capabilities, and $102 million from higher volume, as production work increased, as planned, on an international airborne tactical radar program awarded in the first half of 2010.The increase in net sales of $248 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $235 million of higher net sales from higher volume, as planned, as work increased on certain classified business awarded principally in the first half of 2009, $87 million of higher net sales on a multi spectral targeting system program driven by increased planned production efforts to meet the program delivery schedule and $75 million of higher net sales from higher volume, as planned, as production work increased on an international airborne tactical radar program awarded in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in net sales was partially offset by $111 million of lower net sales from lower volume, as planned, as an advanced targeting program moved toward completion. Total Operating ExpensesThe increase in operating expenses of $384 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the activity described above. The increase in materials and subcontractor costs of $188 million was driven primarily by the 55Table of Contentstiming of program requirements, principally on the ISR systems production programs and on the international airborne tactical radar program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The increases in labor of $109 million and in other cost of sales and other operating expenses of $87 million compared to 2010 were primarily related to RAST.The increase in operating expenses of $207 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to certain classified business, the multi spectral targeting system program and the international airborne tactical radar program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales, offset by the activity on an advanced targeting program for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in materials and subcontractor costs of $157 million was driven primarily by the timing of program requirements, principally on classified business awarded in the first half of 2009. Operating Income and MarginThe increase in operating income of $41 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to higher volume of $43 million, principally driven by the activity on the programs described above in Total Net Sales and net change in EAC adjustments of $16 million, driven primarily by the amount of EAC adjustments on a international airborne tactical radar program and on an advanced targeting program, partially offset by a change in contract mix and other performance of $18 million. Included in contract mix and other performance was $41 million of acquisition related costs for RAST, partially offset by the 2011 impact of the mix of contracts completing and new contract awards. Operating margin in 2011 remained relatively consistent with 2010.The increase in operating income of $41 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher volume, which had a $28 million impact on operating income and the net change in EAC adjustments of $10 million driven primarily by labor and material production efficiencies spread across numerous programs with no individual or common significant driver. Included in EAC adjustments in 2009 was a $19 million favorable settlement of affirmative claims and the resolution of a contract termination. Operating margin in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. Backlog and BookingsBacklog remained relatively consistent and was $5,864 million, $5,981 million and $5,921 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Bookings increased by $271 million in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, SAS booked $782 million on an international Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) program for F 15s to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, $291 million for the production of AESA radars for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy and the Air National Guard, and $78 million on radar contracts for an international customer. SAS also booked $954 million on a number of classified contracts.Bookings in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. In 2010, SAS booked $1,106 million on a number of classified contracts, including $332 million on a major classified space program. In 2010, SAS also booked $618 million for the production of AESA radars for the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, Air National Guard and international customers and $90 million for the production of Advanced Countermeasures Electronic System (ACES) for Egypt. In 2009, SAS booked $422 million to supply APG 63 fire control radars and support equipment for the Japan Air Self Defense Force, $295 million for the B 2 RMP and $147 million on the Integrated Sensor Is Structure (ISIS) radar program for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). SAS also booked $1,330 million on a number of classified contracts.Technical Services % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Total Net Sales$3,353 $3,472 $3,161 (3.4)% 9.8 %Operating Expenses Cost of sales labor1,100 998 955 10.2 % 4.5 %Cost of sales materials and subcontractors1,664 1,903 1,714 (12.6)% 11.0 %Other cost of sales and other operating expenses277 274 280 1.1 % (2.1)%Total Operating Expenses3,041 3,175 2,949 (4.2)% 7.7 %Operating Income$312 $297 $212 5.1 % 40.1 %Operating Margin9.3% 8.6% 6.7% 56Table of ContentsChange in Operating Income Year Ended 2011 Versus Year Ended 2010 Year Ended 2010 Versus Year Ended 2009 (In millions) Change Change Volume $(9) $18 Net change in EAC adjustments 11 36 Mix and other performance 13 31 Total change in operating income $15 $85 % Change(In millions, except percentages)2011 2010 2009 2011 comparedto 2010 2010 comparedto 2009Bookings$2,774 $2,631 $2,633 5.4 % (0.1)%Total Backlog2,586 2,654 2,773 (2.6)% (4.3)%TS provides a full spectrum of technical, scientific and professional services to defense, federal, international and commercial customers worldwide. It specializes in training, logistics, engineering services and solutions, product and operational support services for the mission support, homeland security, space, civil aviation, counter proliferation and counterterrorism markets. Key customers include all branches of the U.S. Armed Forces, as well as the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Department of State (DOS), Department of Energy (DOE), Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), international governments and commercial entities. Total Net SalesThe decrease in net sales of $119 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to $76 million of lower net sales on a DTRA program which completed significant efforts at the end of 2010 and $60 million of lower net sales on training programs, principally domestic training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities due to a decrease in customer determined activity levels, partially offset by $45 million of higher net sales on various depot services operations programs, driven primarily by new contract awards.The increase in net sales of $311 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $232 million of higher net sales from growth on training programs, principally domestic and foreign training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities due to an increase in customer determined activity levels, and $53 million of higher net sales from programs with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), driven primarily by system integration efforts on a program awarded in the first quarter of 2010. Total Operating ExpensesThe decrease in operating expenses of $134 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was driven primarily by the activity on the DTRA and training programs for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The decrease in materials and subcontractor costs of $239 million was driven primarily by the decreased volume on these programs and the types of costs incurred in the respective periods based on the program requirements and program schedules. The decrease in materials and subcontractor costs was partially offset by higher labor of $102 million driven primarily by training programs supporting the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities due to a change in customer determined activities. The increase in operating expenses of $226 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was driven primarily by training programs and programs with the TSA for the reasons described above in Total Net Sales. The increase in materials and subcontractor costs of $189 million was driven primarily by the increased volume on these programs as described above in Total Net Sales. Operating Income and MarginThe increase in operating income of $15 million 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to a change in contract mix and other performance of $13 million, primarily driven by cost efficiencies and higher award fees associated with various training programs, which had an impact of $8 million. Operating income also increased due to a net change in EAC adjustments of $11 million, primarily driven by cost efficiencies on a weapon production and modification program, which had a $7 million impact on operating income. The increases in operating income were partially offset by lower volume, which had a $9 million impact on operating income. The increase in operating margin in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the change in net change EAC adjustments and the contract mix and other performance described above.The increase in operating income of $85 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments, which had a $36 million impact on operating income, and a change in contract mix and other performance, which 57Table of Contentshad a $31 million impact on operating income. The net change in EAC adjustments was driven primarily by contract modifications that impacted the scope on a training program and an international mission support program, which had a $10 million positive impact on 2010 operating income, prior year EAC adjustments due to a change in estimate related to certain mission support program costs, which had a $6 million negative impact on 2009 operating income, and various other EAC adjustments, spread across numerous programs with no common driver. The increase in operating income from the change in contract mix and other performance was driven primarily by cost efficiencies associated with increased levels of program activities on various training programs, which had a $24 million positive impact on 2010 operating income, the majority of which was on programs nearing completion, and higher award fees on a fixed price service contract, which had a $3 million positive impact on 2010 operating income. The increase in operating margin in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the net change in EAC adjustments and the change in contract mix and other performance described above. Backlog and BookingsBacklog remained relatively consistent and was $2,586 million, $2,654 million and $2,773 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Bookings increased by $143 million in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, TS booked $994 million on domestic training programs and $347 million on foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS activities, $150 million to provide operational and logistics support to the National Science Foundation (NSF) Office of Polar Programs, $120 million to design, develop and deliver technical training to a commercial customer, and $100 million with Australia for base operations, maintenance and support services at the Harold E. Holt Naval Communications station.Bookings in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. In 2010, TS booked $952 million on domestic training programs and $328 million on foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS activities, $173 million to provide operational and logistics support to the NSF Office of Polar Programs and $88 million on the Security Equipment Integration Services (SEIS) contract for the TSA. In 2009, TS booked $1.0 billion on domestic training programs and $300 million on foreign training programs in support of the U.S. Armys Warfighter FOCUS activities, $160 million to upgrade Phalanx Weapon Systems for the Royal Canadian Navy and $100 million for DTRA.FAS/CAS AdjustmentThe FAS/CAS Adjustment represents the difference between our pension and postretirement benefit expense or income under FAS in accordance with GAAP and our pension and postretirement benefit expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension and postretirement benefit expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government.The combined FAS/CAS Adjustment at Corporate was as follows:(In millions)2011 2010 2009FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment$(340) $(230) $27FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment3 43 53FAS/CAS Adjustment$(337) $(187) $80The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows: (In millions)2011 2010 2009FAS expense$(1,073) $(896) $(646)CAS expense733 666 673FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment$(340) $(230) $27 As described above in Critical Accounting Estimates, a key driver of the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differ from our assumptions under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 10 years at December 31, 2011, and are currently amortized under CAS over a 15 year period. In addition to changing the liability measurement method, CAS Harmonization reduces this amortization period from 15 to 10 years beginning in 2013. In accordance with both FAS and CAS, a market related value of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market related value of assets is determined using actual asset 58Table of Contentsgains or losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly. The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $110 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was driven by a $177 million increase in our FAS expense. The $177 million increase in our FAS expense was driven primarily by the continued recognition of the 2008 losses in the market related value of assets, which had an impact of approximately $200 million. Our CAS expense increased $67 million as a result of actual versus expected asset and liability experience.The change in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $257 million in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily driven by a $250 million increase in our FAS expense. The $250 million increase in our FAS expense was driven primarily by the continued recognition of the 2008 losses in the market related value of assets, which had an impact of approximately $260 million. Our CAS expense decreased $7 million as a result of actual versus expected asset and liability experience.For 2012 compared to 2011, we currently expect our FAS expense will increase less than our CAS expense, which will decrease the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. We expect the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment to be approximately $283 million of expense driven by the lower discount rate environment and the difference in amortization periods under FAS and CAS, described above, of the net unrecognized liability, principally due to the negative 2008 asset returns, partially offset by the expected return on our contributions. This expected decrease in FAS expense in excess of CAS expense is subject to our annual update, generally planned in the third quarter, of our actuarial estimate of the unfunded benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS for final 2011 census data. After 2012, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is more difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2011 and taking into account CAS Harmonization which increases CAS expense in 2013 and beyond, we would expect our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment expense to decline and ultimately result in FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment income. The components of the FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment were as follows:(In millions)2011 2010 2009FAS (expense) income$(13) $11 $11CAS expense16 32 42FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment$3 $43 $53The change in the FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment of $40 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the expiration of historical amortization under FAS of previous benefit modifications. The FAS/CAS PRB Adjustment in 2010 remained relatively consistent when compared to 2009.Corporate and Eliminations Corporate and Eliminations includes corporate expenses and intersegment sales and profit eliminations. Corporate expenses represent unallocated costs and certain other corporate costs not considered part of managements evaluation of reportable segment operating performance, including the net costs associated with our residual commuter aircraft portfolio. The components of total net sales related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows: (In millions)2011 2010 2009Intersegment sales eliminations$(1,876) $(2,023) $(2,004)Corporate65 27 30Total$(1,811) $(1,996) $(1,974)The increase in Corporate net sales of $38 million in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to higher sales of residual 59Table of Contentscommuter aircraft. Total net sales related to corporate in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. The components of operating income related to Corporate and Eliminations were as follows:(In millions)2011 2010 2009Intersegment profit eliminations$(177) $(189) $(173)Corporate(13) (45) (73)Total$(190) $(234) $(246)Operating income in 2011 decreased $44 million when compared to 2010. Corporate operating income was positively impacted by $27 million in 2011, due to the results from our residual commuter aircraft portfolio. Total net sales and operating income related to corporate in 2010 remained relatively consistent with 2009. In the first quarter of 2012, we completed the final wind down of our residual turbo prop commuter aircraft portfolio (Raytheon Airline Aviation Services), including disposal or abandonment of the remaining individual assets, and all operations have ceased. As such, the results of operations will be reclassified to discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2012. The sale of the remaining operating assets in the first quarter of 2012 resulted in a gain of less than $1 million. The revenues, operating income and cash flows associated with such aircraft portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are presented in the table below. (In millions)2011 2010 2009Revenue$66 $33 $38Operating Income27 (6) (13)Cash Flow86 39 47Discontinued OperationsIn pursuing our business strategies we have divested certain non core businesses, investments and assets when appropriate. All residual activity relating to our previously disposed businesses appears in discontinued operations. We retained certain assets and liabilities of our previously disposed businesses. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had $19 million and $41 million, respectively, of assets primarily related to our retained interest in general aviation finance receivables previously sold by Raytheon Aircraft Company (Raytheon Aircraft). At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had $44 million and $113 million, respectively, of liabilities primarily related to non income tax obligations, certain environmental and product liabilities, various contract obligations and aircraft lease obligations. We also retain certain U.K. pension assets and obligations for a limited number of U.K. pension plan participants as part of the Raytheon Aircraft sale, which we include in our pension disclosures.In the divestiture of Flight Options LLC (Flight Options), Raytheon agreed to indemnify Flight Options in the event Flight Options was assessed and paid excise taxes. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Internal Revenue Service (IRS) appeals proceedings failed to resolve the federal excise tax dispute, and as a result, the IRS assessed Flight Options for excise taxes. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2010 we recorded a $39 million charge, net of federal tax benefit, in discontinued operations. In the first quarter of 2011, Flight Options paid the assessment. On behalf of Flight Options, we intend to vigorously contest the matter through litigation and, if successful, we would be entitled to recover substantially all of the amounts paid. We also have certain tax obligations relating to disposed businesses. As further described in Note 15: Income Taxes, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $281 million reduction in our unrecognized tax benefits, which included a decrease of $89 million in tax expense from discontinued operations, including interest, primarily related to our previous disposition of Raytheon Engineers and Constructors (RE&C).FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY OverviewWe pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development; prudently managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases, as outlined below. Our need for, cost of and access to funds are dependent on future operating results, as well as other external 60Table of Contentsconditions. We currently expect that cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and other available financing resources will be sufficient to meet anticipated operating, capital expenditure, investment, debt service and other financing requirements during the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future. In addition, the following table highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources at December 31, 2011 and 2010: (In millions)2011 2010Cash and cash equivalents$4,000 $3,638Working capital3,179 2,862Amount available under our credit facilities1,397 1,497 Operating Activities (In millions)2011 2010 2009Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations$2,156 $1,931 $2,745Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities2,107 1,942 2,725The net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in 2011 compared to 2010 remained relatively consistent. The decrease of $783 million in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to $750 million of higher discretionary pension contributions. Tax PaymentsIn 2011, we received federal tax refunds totaling $128 million, including the refund relating to the 2011 Tax Settlement, and made $553 million in federal and net foreign tax payments and $12 million in net state tax payments. In 2010, we received federal tax refunds totaling $96 million and made $433 million in federal and net foreign tax payments and $54 million in net state tax payments. In 2009, we received federal tax refunds totaling $350 million and made $558 million in federal and net foreign tax payments, net of $69 million of overpayment credits. In 2009, we received state tax refunds totaling $23 million and made $45 million in state tax payments. Federal and foreign tax payments for 2012 are expected to approximate $725 million. Pension Plan ContributionsWe make both required and discretionary contributions to our pension plans. Required contributions are primarily determined under the ERISA rules and are affected by the actual return on plan assets and plan funded status. We made the following required and discretionary contributions to our pension plans during the years ended December 31: (In millions)2011 2010 2009Required contributions$1,078 $1,152 $1,115Discretionary contributions750 750 Total$1,828 $1,902 $1,115 Required contributions in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were relatively consistent year to year. We expect to make required contributions to our pension plans of approximately $1.2 billion in 2012. We periodically evaluate whether to make additional discretionary contributions. On January 1, 2011, we became subject to the funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), which amended ERISA. Under the PPA, we are required to fully fund our pension plans over a rolling seven year period, as determined annually based upon the funded status at the beginning of each year. Additionally, the recognition of pension costs for government contractors under the CAS rules was impacted by CAS Harmonization. As discussed on page 33, CAS Harmonization is expected to increase our future CAS recovery, primarily in 2014 and beyond, which would positively impact our cash flows. Other postretirement benefit payments were $18 million, $32 million and $45 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We made interest payments of $167 million, $134 million and $147 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in interest payments in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to interest payments on the 1.625% notes, 3.125% notes, and 4.875% notes issued in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease in interest payments in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the repurchase, in the fourth quarter of 2009, of our 4.85% notes due 2011.61Table of Contents Investing Activities (In millions)2011 2010 2009Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities$(1,051) $(535) $(692)The change of $516 million in net cash provided by (used in) investing activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the acquisition of Applied Signal Technology, Inc., as described below. The change of $157 million in net cash provided by (used in) investing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the acquisition of BBN Technologies Corp. and related entities in the fourth quarter of 2009 in which we paid $334 million, net of cash acquired, offset by 2010 acquisitions of $152 million, net of cash acquired, described below. Additions to property plant and equipment and capitalized internal use softwareAdditions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software were as follows: (In millions)2011 2010 2009Additions to property, plant and equipment$340 $319 $280Additions to capitalized internal use software97 67 67 We expect our property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software expenditures to be approximately $360 million and $95 million, respectively, in 2012, consistent with the anticipated needs of our business and for specific investments including program capital assets and facility improvements. AcquisitionsIn pursuing our business strategies, we acquire and make investments in certain businesses that meet strategic and financial criteria, and divest of certain non core businesses, investments and assets when appropriate.(In millions)2011 2010 2009Payments for purchases of acquired companies, net of cash acquired$645 $152 $334On January 31, 2011, we acquired Applied Signal Technology, Inc., subsequently renamed Raytheon Applied Signal Technology, Inc. (RAST) for $500 million in cash, net of $25 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and exclusive of retention and management incentive payments. RAST provides advanced intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) solutions to enhance global security. The acquisition is part of our strategy to extend and enhance our Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) offerings related to certain classified and Department of Defense markets. In connection with this acquisition, we recorded $387 million of goodwill, all of which was allocated to the Companys SAS segment, primarily related to expected synergies from combining operations and the value of RASTs assembled workforce, and $89 million in intangible assets, primarily related to contractual relationships, license agreements and trade names with a weighted average life of seven years. Additionally, in 2011, we acquired Henggeler Computer Consultants Inc., Pikewerks Corporation and substantially all of the assets of Ktech Corporation for an aggregate of $145 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The Henggeler Computer Consultant Inc. and Pikewerks Corporation acquisitions enhance our cybersecurity and information assurance capabilities at Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS). The Ktech Corporation acquisition is part of our strategy to extend and enhance our Missile Systems (MS) offerings. In connection with these acquisitions, we have preliminarily recorded $112 million of goodwill, primarily related to expected synergies from combining operations and the value of the existing workforce, and $26 million of intangible assets, primarily related to customer relationships, trade names and technology with an initial estimated weighted average life of seven years. We expect to complete the purchase price allocation process for the Henggeler Computer Consultant Inc. and Pikewerks Corporation acquisitions in the first quarter of 2012 when we receive final valuation results and complete our review.In 2010, we acquired Trusted Computer Solutions Inc., Technology Associates Inc. and substantially all of the assets of an Australian company, Compucat Research Pty. Ltd, for an aggregate of $152 million in cash, net of cash acquired. These acquisitions enhance our cybersecurity and information assurance capabilities. In connection with these acquisitions, we recorded $125 million of goodwill, primarily related to expected synergies from combining operations and the value of the existing workforce, and $28 million of intangible assets, primarily related to technology, trade names and customer relationships with a weighted average life of five years. 62Table of ContentsIn 2009, we acquired BBN Technologies Corp. and related entities which enhances our advanced networking, speech and language technologies, information technologies, sensor systems and cybersecurity, for $334 million in cash, net of $22 million of cash acquired, exclusive of retention and management incentive payments. In connection with this acquisition, we recorded $254 million of goodwill, primarily related to expected synergies from combining operations and the value of the workforce, and $70 million in intangible assets, primarily related to technology, contractual backlog and trade name with a weighted average life of eight years. Financing Activities(In millions)2011 2010 2009Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities$(694) $(411) $(1,650) We have used cash provided by operating activities, and proceeds from the issuance of new debt in 2011 and 2010 as our primary source for the repayment of debt, payment of dividends and the repurchase of our common stock. The change of $283 million in net cash provided by (used in) financing activities in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the lower net proceeds from debt issuances and debt repayments in 2011 compared to 2010, and the lower level of warrants exercised in 2011 compared to 2010. The change of $1,239 million in net cash provided by (used in) financing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the issuance of $2.0 billion fixed rate long term debt in the fourth quarter of 2010, as described below, partially offset by $250 million of higher repurchases of common stock under our share repurchase programs and $678 million related to the repurchase of long term debt described below. DebtIn the fourth quarter of 2011, we received proceeds of $992 million for the issuance of $1.0 billion fixed rate long term debt.In the fourth quarter of 2010, we received proceeds of $1,975 million for the issuance of $2.0 billion fixed rate long term debt and exercised our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to U.S. Treasuries, $678 million of our long term debt due in 2012 and 2013 at a loss of $73 million pretax, $47 million after tax, which is included in other (income) expense.In the fourth quarter of 2009, we received proceeds of $496 million from the issuance of $500 million fixed rate long term debt and exercised our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to U.S. Treasuries, $474 million of our long term debt maturing in 2011 at a loss of $22 million pretax, $14 million after tax, which is included in other (income) expense. Stock RepurchasesInformation on repurchases of our common stock under our share repurchase programs is as follows: (In millions)2011 2010 2009Amount of stock repurchased$1,250 $1,450 $1,200Shares of stock repurchased27.1 29.0 25.8 In March 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. In September 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $2.2 billion remaining under these repurchase programs. Share repurchases will take place from time to time at managements discretion depending on market conditions. In May 2010, our stockholders approved the Raytheon 2010 Stock Plan. Under the plan, we may grant restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, stock grants, stock options and stock appreciation rights. Cash DividendsOur Board of Directors authorized the following cash dividends: (In millions, except per share amounts)2011 2010 2009Cash dividends per share$1.72 $1.50 $1.24Total dividends paid588 536 473 In March 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a 15% increase to our annual dividend payout rate from $1.50 to $1.72 per share. In March 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a 21% increase in our annual dividend payout rate from $1.24 to $1.50 per share. Dividends are subject to quarterly approval by our Board of Directors. 63Table of ContentsCAPITAL RESOURCESTotal debt was $4.6 billion at December 31, 2011, $3.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009. Our outstanding debt bears contractual interest at fixed interest rates ranging from 1.4% to 7.2% and matures at various dates through 2041. Cash and Cash EquivalentsCash and cash equivalents were $4.0 billion and $3.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. We invest cash in U.S. Treasuries; commercial paper of financial institutions and corporations with a minimum long term debt rating of AA or Aa3 and minimum short term debt rating of A 1 and P 1; AAA/Aaa rated U.S. Treasury money market funds; and bank certificates of deposit and time deposits with a minimum long term debt rating of AA or Aa3. Cash balances held at our foreign subsidiaries were approximately $450 million and $630 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Earnings from our foreign subsidiaries are currently deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. We do not expect such reinvestment to affect our liquidity and capital resources, and we continuously evaluate our liquidity needs and ability to meet global cash requirements as a part of our overall capital deployment strategy. Factors which affect our global capital deployment strategy include anticipated cash flows, the ability to repatriate cash in a tax efficient manner, funding requirements for operations and investment activities, acquisitions and divestitures, and capital market conditions. Credit FacilitiesIn December 2011, we entered into a $1.4 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2016, replacing the previous $500 million and $1.0 billion credit facilities, both scheduled to mature in November 2012. Under the $1.4 billion credit facility we can borrow, issue letters of credit and backstop commercial paper. Borrowings under this facility bear interest at various rate options, including LIBOR plus a margin based on our credit ratings. Based on our credit ratings at December 31, 2011, borrowings would generally bear interest at LIBOR plus 90 basis points. The credit facility is comprised of commitments from approximately 25 separate highly rated lenders, each committing no more than 10% of the facility. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility or the previous credit facilities. However, we had $3 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2011 and 2010, which effectively reduced our borrowing capacity under this credit facility and our previous facilities by those same amounts. Under the $1.4 billion credit facility we must comply with certain covenants, including a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 60%. We were in compliance with the credit facility covenants during 2011. Our ratio of total debt to total capitalization, as those terms are defined in the credit facility was 35.6% at December 31, 2011. We are providing this ratio, which is a financial covenant under our credit facility, as this metric is used by our lenders to monitor the Companys leverage and is also a threshold that limits our ability to utilize this facility. We were also required to comply with certain covenants in connection with our previous credit facilities and were in compliance with such covenants in 2010.Certain of our foreign subsidiaries maintain revolving bank lines of credit to provide them with a limited amount of short term liquidity. Other uncommitted bank lines totaled approximately $2 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. There were no amounts outstanding under these lines of credit at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Compensating balance arrangements are not material. Credit RatingsThree major corporate debt rating organizations, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and Standard & Poors (S&P), assign ratings to our short term and long term debt. The following chart reflects the current ratings assigned by each of these agencies as of December 31, 2011 to our short and long term senior unsecured debt: Short Term Long Term Senior Rating AgencyDebt Rating Debt Rating Outlook Date of Last ActionFitchF2 A Stable September 2008MoodysP 2 A3 Stable October 2011S&PA 2 A Stable September 2008 Shelf RegistrationsWe have an effective shelf registration with the SEC, filed in October 2010, which covers the registration of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock and warrants.64Table of ContentsCONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONSThe following is a schedule of our contractual obligations outstanding at December 31, 2011: (In millions)Total Less than1 year(2012) 13 years(20132014) 45 years(20152016) After 5 years(2017 andthereafter)Debt(1)$4,658 $ $575 $400 $3,683Interest payments2,889 197 392 370 1,930Operating leases1,191 229 340 236 386Purchase obligations8,199 6,536 1,355 247 61Total$16,937 $6,962 $2,662 $1,253 $6,060(1)Debt includes scheduled principal payments only.Purchase obligations in the table above represent enforceable and legally binding agreements with suppliers to purchase goods or services. We enter into contracts with customers, primarily the U.S. Government, which entitles us to full recourse for costs incurred, including purchase obligations, in the event the contract is terminated by the customer for convenience. These purchase obligations are included above notwithstanding the amount for which we are entitled to full recourse from our customers. The table above does not include required pension and other postretirement contributions. We expect to make required pension and other postretirement contributions of $1.2 billion in 2012, exclusive of any U.S. Government recovery. Amounts beyond 2012 for required pension and other postretirement contributions depend upon actuarial assumptions, actual plan asset performance and other factors described under pension costs in Critical Accounting Estimates on page 31. However, based solely on our current assumptions, we expect our funding requirements to be approximately $1 billion in 2013 and 2014, exclusive of any U.S. Government recovery, and slowly decreasing thereafter.Interest payments include interest on debt that is redeemable at our option. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and the accrual for the related interest, net of the federal benefit, was $178 million and $211 million, respectively, and was included in accrued retiree benefits and other long term liabilities. These amounts were not included in the table above since we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when a cash settlement, if any, will occur with a tax authority as the timing of examinations and ultimate resolutions of those examinations is uncertain. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSAt December 31, 2011, we had no significant off balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases and guarantees to third parties on behalf of our affiliates as described below in Commitments and Contingencies. Such arrangements are not material to our overall liquidity or capital resources, market risk support or credit risk support as described below.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESEnvironmental MattersWe are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. Our estimate of the liability of total environmental remediation costs includes the use of a discount rate and takes into account that a portion of these costs is eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. We consider such recovery probable based on government contracting regulations and our long history of receiving reimbursement for such costs and accordingly have recorded the estimated future recovery of these costs from the U.S. Government within contracts in process. Our estimates regarding remediation costs to be incurred were as follows at December 31: (In millions, except percentages)2011 2010Total remediation costsundiscounted$227 $225Weighted average risk free rate5.6% 5.6%Total remediation costsdiscounted$152 $152Recoverable portion105 107 We also lease certain government owned properties and are generally not liable for remediation of preexisting environmental contamination at these sites; as a result, we generally do not reflect the provision for these costs in our consolidated financial statements. 65Table of Contents Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance coverage and the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of environmental matters; however, we do not expect any additional liability to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.Environmental remediation costs expected to be incurred are: (In millions) 2012$48201326201416201513201612Thereafter112 Financing Arrangements and OtherWe issue guarantees and banks and surety companies issue, on our behalf, letters of credit and surety bonds to meet various bid, performance, warranty, retention and advance payment obligations of us or our affiliates. These instruments expire on various dates through 2022. Additional guarantees of project performance for which there is no stated value also remain outstanding. The stated values outstanding consisted of the following at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010: (In millions)2011 2010Guarantees$256 $281Letters of Credit1,275 1,067Surety Bonds233 213 Included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $109 million and $240 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011, and $134 million and $256 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010, related to our Thales Raytheon Systems Co. Ltd. (TRS) joint venture. We provide these guarantees and letters of credit to TRS and other affiliates to assist these entities in obtaining financing on more favorable terms, making bids on contracts and performing their contractual obligations. While we expect these entities to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations, their failure to do so may result in a future obligation to us. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had an estimated liability of $6 million and $9 million, respectively, related to these guarantees and letters of credit. We periodically evaluate the risk of TRS and other affiliates failing to satisfy their loans, project performance and meet other contractual obligations described above. At December 31, 2011, we believe the risk that TRS and other affiliates will not be able to perform or meet their obligations is minimal for the foreseeable future based on their current financial condition. All obligations were current at December 31, 2011. In 1997, we provided a first loss guarantee of $133 million on $1.3 billion of U.S. Export Import Bank loans (maturing in 2015) to the Brazilian Government related to Network Centric Systems System for the Vigilance of the Amazon (SIVAM) program. Loan repayments by the Brazilian Government were current at December 31, 2011.We have entered into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, as a condition to obtaining orders for our products and services from certain customers in foreign countries. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate amount of our offset agreements had an outstanding notional value of approximately $5 billion. To the extent we have entered into purchase obligations that satisfy our offset agreements, those amounts are included in the Contractual Obligations table on page 65. These agreements are designed to return economic value to the foreign country by requiring the contractor to engage in activities supporting local defense or commercial industries, promoting a balance of trade, developing in country technology capabilities, or addressing other local development priorities. Offset agreements may be satisfied through activities that do not require a direct cash payment, including transferring technology, providing manufacturing, training and other consulting support to in country projects, and the purchase by third parties (e.g., our vendors) of supplies from in country vendors. These agreements may also be satisfied through our use of cash for activities such as subcontracting with local partners, purchasing supplies from in country vendors, providing financial support for in country projects, and making investments in local ventures. Such activities may also vary country by country depending upon requirements as dictated by their governments. We 66Table of Contentstypically do not commit to offset agreements until orders for our products or services are definitive. The amounts ultimately applied against our offset agreements are based on negotiations with the customers and typically require cash outlays that represent only a fraction of the notional value in the offset agreements. Offset programs usually extend over several or more years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. We have historically not been required to pay any such penalties.Government contractors are subject to many levels of audit and investigation. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Defense Contract Management Agency, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional Committees. The Department of Justice has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S. and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government regulations or any applicable U.S. Government regulations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations) may also be investigated or audited. We do not expect these audits and investigations to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate. We have completed a self initiated internal review of certain of our international operations, focusing on compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In the course of the review, we identified possible areas of concern involving certain practices related to operations in a foreign jurisdiction where we do business. We voluntarily disclosed and shared the results of our review with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice. Based on the information available to date, we do not believe that the results of this review will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. On July 22, 2010, Raytheon Systems Limited (RSL) was notified by the U.K. Border Agency (UKBA) that it had been terminated for cause on a program (UKBA Program). The termination notice included allegations that RSL had failed to perform on certain key milestones and other matters in addition to claiming entitlement to recovery of certain losses incurred and previous payments made to RSL. We believe that RSL performed well and delivered substantial capabilities to the UKBA under the program, which has been operating successfully and providing actionable information since live operations began in May 2009. As a result of the termination notice, we adjusted our estimated amount of revenue and costs under the program in the second quarter of 2010 (UKBA Program Adjustment). The impact of the UKBA Program Adjustment reduced IIS total net sales and operating income by $316 million and $395 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010. The UKBA Program Adjustment also reduced total company diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $0.75 in the year ended December 31, 2010. On July 29, 2010, RSL filed a dispute notice on the grounds that the termination by the UKBA was not valid. On August 18, 2010, the UKBA initiated arbitration proceedings on this issue. On March 22, 2011, the UKBA gave notice that it had presented a demand to draw on the approximately $80 million of letters of credit provided by RSL upon the signing of the contract with the UKBA in 2007. On March 23, 2011, the UKBA submitted a detailed claim in the arbitration of approximately 350 million (approximately $544 million based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2011) for damages and clawback of previous payments, plus interest and arbitration costs, excluding any credit for capability delivered or draw on the letters of credit. The UKBA also asserted that additional amounts may be detailed in the claim in the future if estimates of its damages change, and for continuing post termination losses and any re procurement costs, which have not been quantified. At RSLs request, on March 29, 2011, the Arbitration Tribunal issued an interim order restraining the UKBA from drawing down on the letters of credit pending a hearing on the issue. Following the hearing, the Tribunal lifted the restraint on the basis that, at this early stage of the proceedings, the Tribunal had not heard the evidence needed to decide the merits of whether the contractual conditions for a drawdown had been established. The Tribunal also concluded that any decision on the UKBAs right to call on the letters of credit is inextricably intertwined with the ultimate decision on the merits in the arbitration. The Tribunal also preserved RSLs right to claim damages should RSL later establish that the drawdown was not valid. As a result, on April 6, 2011, the UKBA drew the $80 million on the letters of credit.As a result of the Tribunals decision that the letters of credit are inextricably intertwined with the ultimate decision on the merits in the arbitration, we were no longer able to evaluate, independently from the overall claim, the probability of recovery of any amounts drawn on the letters of credit. We therefore recorded $80 million of costs related to the UKBA drawdown (UKBA LOC Adjustment), which is included in IIS operating expenses in the first quarter of 2011. In June 2011, RSL submitted in the arbitration its defenses to the UKBA claim as well as substantial counterclaims in the amount of approximately 500 million (approximately $777 million based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2011) against the UKBA for the collection of receivables and damages. On October 3, 2011, the UKBA filed its reply to RSLs counterclaims, and increased its claim amount by approximately 32 million, to include additional civil service and post termination costs, and approximately 33 million for interest, raising the total gross amount of the UKBA claim for damages and clawback of previous payments to approximately 415 million (approximately $645 million based on foreign exchange 67Table of Contentsrates as of December 31, 2011). On January 6, 2012, RSL filed its response to the UKBAs reply. RSL is pursuing vigorously the collection of all receivables for the program and damages in connection with the wrongful termination and is mounting a strong defense to the UKBAs alleged claims for losses and previous payments. RSL has also settled substantially all subcontractor claims, novated all key subcontracts to the UKBA and agreed with the UKBA that RSLs exit obligations to operate the previously delivered capability ended in April 2011. Effective April 15, 2011, the UKBA took over responsibility for operating the previously delivered capability.The receivables and other assets remaining under the program for technology and services delivered decreased by $32 million from approximately $70 million at December 31, 2010 to approximately $38 million at December 31, 2011 which was impacted by collections on certain outstanding receivables. We believe the remaining receivables and other assets are probable of recovery in litigation or arbitration. We currently do not believe it is probable that RSL is liable for losses, previous payments (which includes the $80 million related to the drawdown on the letters of credit), clawback or other claims asserted by the UKBA either in its March 2011 arbitration filing or its October 2011 reply. Due to the inherent uncertainties in litigation and arbitration and the complexity and technical nature of actual and potential claims and counterclaims, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate amount of any resolution of the termination could be less or greater than the amounts we have recorded. For the same reasons, at this time, we are unable to estimate a range of the possible loss or recovery, if any, beyond the claim and counterclaim amounts. If we fail to collect the receivable balances or are required to make payments against claims or other losses asserted by the UKBA in excess of the amounts we have recorded, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Arbitration hearings are scheduled to commence in late 2012 and we expect to have a decision in 2013. In addition, various other claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened against us. We do not expect any additional liability from these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. ACCOUNTING STANDARDSIn June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new accounting standard that eliminates the option to present other comprehensive income (OCI) in the statement of stockholders equity and instead requires net income, the components of OCI, and total comprehensive income to be presented in either one continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. The standard also requires that items reclassified from OCI to net income be presented on the face of the financial statements. However, in December 2011, the FASB finalized a proposal to defer the requirement to present reclassifications from OCI to net income on the face of the financial statements and require that reclassification adjustments be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, consistent with the existing disclosure requirements. The deferral does not change the requirement to present net income, components of OCI, and total comprehensive income in either one continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements. This guidance is effective for the periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and early application is permitted. We have elected to adopt the requirements early with retrospective application. As of the year ending December 31, 2011, we have presented total comprehensive income in two separate, but consecutive, statements. Refer to the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of comprehensive income for this revised presentation. The adoption of this standard only required a change in the presentation of OCI in our consolidated financial statements and did not have any impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.In May 2011, the FASB issued amended guidance that clarifies the application of existing fair value measurement and increases certain related disclosure requirements about measuring fair value. This guidance is effective for the periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and early application is prohibited. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.In September 2011, the FASB issued amended guidance on goodwill impairment testing that provides companies with the option to make an initial qualitative evaluation, based on the entitys events and circumstances, to determine the likelihood of goodwill impairment. This guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early application permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.Other new pronouncements issued but not effective until after December 31, 2011, are not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.68Table of ContentsITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable rate short term and fixed rate long term financing. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. The market risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest and exchange rates. For long term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. There were no interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates(In millions, except percentages) LongTerm Debt2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Fair ValueFixed rate debt$ $ $575 $400 $ $3,683 $4,658 $5,121Average interest rate 1.400% 1.625% 4.932% 4.21% As of December 31, 2010 Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates(In millions, except percentages) LongTerm Debt2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fair ValueFixed rate debt$ $ $ $ $400 $3,258 $3,658 $3,783Average interest rate 1.625% 4.962% 4.60% In addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $941 million and $1,258 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Unrealized gains of $12 million and $45 million were included in non current assets and unrealized losses of $22 million and $41 million were included in current liabilities at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. Realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. We believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy.69Table of Contents
 
