FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20021226172214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Resignations of registrant's directors	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Resignations of registrant's directors
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 23, 2002 IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED -------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) PENNSYLVANIA (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-13045 23-2588479 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02111 ----------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (617) 535-4766 ----------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
ITEM 6. RESIGNATIONS OF REGISTRANT'S DIRECTORS On December 23, 2002, J. Peter Pierce, a member of the Board of Directors of Iron Mountain Incorporated (the "Company") tendered his resignation as a director effective immediately. A copy of Mr. Pierce's letter of resignation is attached as Exhibit 17.1. By letter to Mr. Pierce dated December 20, 2002, the Company's directors had requested that Mr. Pierce resign as a director (the "Board's Letter"). A copy of the Board's Letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Mr. Pierce stated in his resignation letter that he was not resigning as a result of the Board's Letter. Instead, Mr. Pierce stated that his resignation was prompted by his disagreement as to certain procedures followed by the Company, and the Board, in respect of the Company's disputes with Mr. Pierce, which include pending litigation and arbitration proceedings against him related to Mr. Pierce's alleged involvement with and support of Sequedex LLC ("Sequedex"), which has been previously disclosed by the Company. Mr. Pierce contends that the actions taken against him were not authorized by the Board of Directors and that the Company did not adequately disclose its actions with regard to Mr. Pierce. Mr. Pierce also states that his resignation from the Board will enable him to pursue shareholders' rights with other interested shareholders to ensure that Iron Mountain is governed and managed properly. Finally, Mr. Pierce objected to the Company's involvement with Mr. Carr, a business associate of Mr. Pierce, and of the failure of the Company to disclose a lawsuit between Mr. Carr and Mr. Pierce. The Company does not agree with Mr. Pierce's position and certain of his factual statements. When the Company's management began receiving information in the autumn of 2000 that Sequedex had been established by certain former executives of Pierce Leahy Corp. (some of which had noncompetition agreements with the Company), and also that Mr. Pierce was directly involved with Sequedex, management directed the Company's outside counsel to conduct a confidential, discreet investigation of these matters under the direction of Mr. Reese and the members of the Company's Executive Committee other than Mr. Pierce. As a result of counsel's confidential investigation (which included certain information from Mr. Carr, referred to in Mr. Pierce's resignation letter) and discovery in lawsuits against certain former employees of the Company and Sequedex, the Company's management and members of its Board of Directors other than Mr. Pierce concluded that Mr. Pierce had breached noncompetition and nonsolicitation agreements with, as well as his fiduciary obligations to, the Company, both directly and indirectly, by reason of his involvement with and support of Sequedex. In order to preserve the confidential character of the investigation, as well as to prevent the potential destruction of evidence and the premature or inaccurate disclosures of these matters, the Company's management and the members of its Board of Directors met informally on several occasions. The Company believes that its procedures were appropriate, given the unusual circumstances in the situation. As a result of the information that came to the attention of the Company's management and Board, the Company, on March 28, 2002, initiated a civil action against Mr. Pierce and others in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Middlesex County, Chancery Division, and subsequently, on April 15, 2002, initiated an arbitration proceeding against Mr. Pierce, as previously dislcosed by the Company. The Company's efforts to resolve its disputes with Mr. Pierce, Sequedex and the other defendants were rejected. The Company disagrees with Mr. Pierce's characterization of its dealings with Mr. Carr, who first approached the Company's management in the autumn of 2001 with information that, among other things, Mr. Pierce, who had acquired a controlling interest in Mr. Carr's transportation, warehousing and logistics company earlier that year, was utilizing that company surreptitiously to provide employee support, transportation services and advertising for Sequedex. The information provided by Mr. Carr was consistent with other information that had come to management's attention as a result of the investigation and discovery described above. On April 9, 2002, after the Company was notified that Mr. Carr had commenced an independent lawsuit against Mr. Pierce, management concluded that it was in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to provide $50,000 in financial support to Mr. Carr's counsel in order to ensure that the facts relating to certain of Mr. Pierce's actions in derogation of his contractual and fiduciary obligations to the Company were fully developed. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Item 17.1 Letter, dated December 23, 2002, from J. Peter Pierce to C. Richard Reese and the Board of Directors. 99.1 Letter, dated December 20, 2002, from the Board of Directors to J. Peter Pierce.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED (Registrant) By: /s/ GARRY B. WATZKE ----------------------------------- Name: Garry B. Watzke Title: Vice President and Secretary Date: December 26, 2002

EXHIBIT 17.1 December 23, 2002 C. Richard Reese Chairman and CEO Iron Mountain Incorporated 745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, MA 02111 Dear Mr. Reese and Fellow Directors: Effective immediately I am tendering my resignation as a member of the Board of Directors of Iron Mountain. I do so not because of your letter of December 20, 2002, in which you asked me to resign, but for reasons that were disclosed to me during the past two weeks, particularly through the sworn testimony of Vin Ryan, yourself, John Kenny and Gary Watzke. At the conclusion of Vin Ryan's deposition on December 11, 2002, our counsel advised Larry Varn that lawsuits would be filed against Iron Mountain and certain members of its Board by Monday, December 16, 2002, the date of your deposition. Therefore you, through Mr. Varn, were clearly aware of our intent to file the lawsuits. In addition, the filings on that date had nothing to do with the fact that the company was selling senior subordinated notes. You were well aware that the notes were priced before the filing of the lawsuits and the publicity surrounding same. In publicizing the dispute between me and certain directors in the company, I was simply putting out there my side of the story. You had no qualms by publicly disclosing the lawsuit against me so I was simply following your procedures with respect to disclosing to the public the legal issues between us. My resignation from the Board will enable me to pursue shareholders' rights with other interested shareholders in seeing to it that Iron Mountain is governed and managed properly. Board meetings that are held in violation of the bylaws should not be countenanced. Actions taken by "rump" sessions of the Board without notice to all Board members should not be authorized. If there are issues that exist with any Board members, special committees should be formed and authorized to investigate. This did not happen at Iron Mountain at any time. No minutes were taken of the so-called surreptitious "Board meetings". The unauthorized nature of certain "Board actions" has been confirmed under oath by your general counsel Gary Watzke. It is also now clear that on March 27, 2002, the Executive Committee met and purported to authorize the lawsuit that was filed against me the next day in New Jersey state court, even though the Board had never given the Executive Committee this authority at a duly authorized meeting of which I received notice. Interestingly, even though the "Board," as of March 5th, had purported to authorize the lawsuit against me, no disclosure of that "fact" was made by you in your note to the shareholders in the 2001 Annual Report, dated March 20, 2002, nor was there any mention of my alleged secret investment in Sequedex in the description of me as a Board member, that was set forth therein. In addition, there was no disclosure in the legal proceeding section of the first quarter Form 10-Q concerning the litigation filed against me as a material proceeding adverse to Iron Mountain. I simply will not be a part of a Board that attempts to conduct business in such a surreptitious and improper manner. Your association with Thomas Carr, a shareholder of Logisteq, in which I lost substantial sums of money, was shocking to me. After being made aware that Mr. Carr was indicted, it was you Mr. Reese who authorized the payment of $50,000 to Carr and his attorneys to fund his lawsuit against me. This was a lawsuit in which you had no independent knowledge as to its merits and in the words of Vin Ryan, if it would help the action against me, then he for one was for it. We believe this lawsuit, funded by Iron
Mountain, also should have been disclosed in the Company's Form 10-Qs. Mr. Ryan also acknowledges under oath that he was not aware of any payment made to Mr. Carr or his attorneys until the day before his deposition, which was taken two weeks ago. In short, I will not be part of a Board that is chaired by you and condones these types of actions. These are exactly the evils that the Sarbanes Oxley Act was designed to address. It is clear from the sworn testimony that Iron Mountain's Board is not independent and is dominated and controlled by certain individuals. Pursuant to the Item 6 of Form 8-K, I demand that Iron Mountain make immediate disclosure of my disagreements with the Iron Mountain Board set forth in this letter and my resignation from the Board. Sincerely, /s/ J. Peter Pierce -------------------------------------- J. Peter Pierce JPP cc: All Members of Iron Mountain Board of Directors

EXHIBIT 99.1 December 20, 2002 J. Peter Pierce BY TELECOPIER: (610) 862-2120 Eight Tower Bridge, Suite 140 ------------------------------ 161 Washington Street AND OVERNIGHT DELIVERY Conshohocken, PA 19428 ---------------------- Dear Peter: We were very surprised to learn that you had directed your attorneys, Cozen O'Connor, to issue the press release that the firm released on December 17, 2002, describing the two lawsuits filed by you, and people and entities related to you, against Iron Mountain Incorporated (the "Company") and certain of its officers and directors. You certainly have the right to commence litigation. However, we believe that the two cases you have filed are utterly without merit and have no purpose other than to deflect attention from the facts which led to the filing by the Company of actions against you. Your further election to publicize the dispute at a time when you knew the Company was selling senior subordinated notes in a public offering strikes us as another flagrant failure on your part to act in the best interests of the Company and in accordance with your fiduciary duties. The Board of Directors (including yourself) unanimously approved the financing on November 27, and again expressed support for it at the December 5 Board meeting for the reasons discussed at the meetings. Iron Mountain, of course, promptly filed an 8-K on December 17 referring to the litigation, so no issue of disclosure to investors was involved. Your directing Cozen O'Connor to issue the press release on the 17th could have had no purpose other than to interfere with the financing or to otherwise damage the Company. Your causing the issuance of the press release leads us to conclude that no purpose can possibly be served by your continued presence on the Board; and in fact, your continued participation in directing the management of the Company may adversely affect it. Therefore, we request that you resign from the Board immediately. Very truly yours, /s/ C. Richard Reese - --------------------------- C. Richard Reese Chairman of the Board PLEASE SEE PAGE 2 FOR OTHER SIGNATORIES.
SIGNATORIES CONTINUED: /s/ CLARKE H. BAILEY - --------------------------- Clarke H. Bailey /s/ CONSTANTIN R. BODEN - --------------------------- Constantin R. Boden /s/ KENT DAUTEN - --------------------------- Kent Dauten /s/ EUGENE B. DOGGETT - --------------------------- Eugene B. Doggett /s/ B. THOMAS GOLISANO - --------------------------- B. Thomas Golisano /s/ JOHN F. KENNY, JR. - --------------------------- John F. Kenny, Jr. /s/ ARTHUR D. LITTLE - --------------------------- Arthur D. Little /s/ VINCENT J. RYAN - --------------------------- Vincent J. Ryan


