FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20030616080414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 of 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 16, 2003 IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED -------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) PENNSYLVANIA ------------ (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-13045 23-2588479 ------- ---------- (Commission (IRS Employer File Number) Identification No.) 745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02111 ----------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (617) 535-4766 ----------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS On June 16, 2003, we announced a proposed public offering of $150 million in aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016. We intend to use the net proceeds from the offering to redeem all or a portion of the outstanding 8-1/8% Senior Notes due 2008 of our subsidiary, Iron Mountain Canada Corporation, which we have guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis, and for general corporate purposes, including the possible repayment of other indebtedness and possible future acquisitions and investments. A copy of our press release regarding this event is being filed as an exhibit to this report. In connection with the proposed offering, we are also disclosing that Iron Mountain Europe Limited, our majority owned subsidiary that operates our records and information management business in Europe, is participating in a process for the sale of, and has made a proposal to acquire, the Information Management Services unit of Hays Plc ("Hays IMS"). We believe that Iron Mountain Europe is one of several bidders for Hays IMS, whose operations are principally in the United Kingdom and continental Europe. Hays IMS' revenues in the year ended 30 June 2002 were approximately 88.3 million pounds sterling. There can be no assurances that we will be the successful bidder for Hays IMS. If we are successful, Iron Mountain Incorporated may provide the financing to Iron Mountain Europe to enable it to acquire Hays IMS. We intend for Iron Mountain Europe to seek permanent financing to fund the acquisition or to repay all or a portion of any such financing from Iron Mountain Incorporated. Iron Mountain Europe is an unrestricted subsidiary under our existing indentures and we anticipate that it will be an unrestricted subsidiary under the indentures for our senior subordinated notes, including the notes offered hereby, for the foreseeable future. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits. EXHIBIT NO. ITEM - ----------- ---- 99.1 The Company's Press Release, dated June 16, 2003, regarding a proposed public offering of senior subordinated notes.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED (Registrant) By: /s/ Jean A. Bua Name: Jean A. Bua Title: Vice President and Corporate Controller Date: June 16, 2003

EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Contact: Stephen P. Golden Director of Investor Relations (617) 535-4799 Iron Mountain Incorporated Announces Proposed $150 Million Debt Offering Boston, MA--June 16, 2003--Iron Mountain Incorporated (NYSE: IRM), the leader in records and information management services, announced today a proposed public offering of $150 million in aggregate principal amount of Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to redeem all or a portion of the outstanding 8-1/8% Senior Notes due 2008 of its subsidiary, Iron Mountain Canada Corporation, which the Company has guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis, and for general corporate purposes, including the possible repayment of other indebtedness and possible future acquisitions and investments. The exact terms and timing of the offering will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus. This announcement shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of any offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sales of these securities in any state in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. About Iron Mountain Iron Mountain Incorporated is the world's trusted partner for outsourced records and information management services. Founded in 1951, the Company has grown to service more than 150,000 customer accounts throughout the United States, Canada, Europe and Latin America. Iron Mountain offers records management services for both physical and digital media, disaster recovery support services and consulting services - services that help businesses save money and manage risks associated with legal and regulatory compliance, protection of vital information, and business continuity challenges. For more information, visit www.ironmountain.com. ###


