FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20060720170012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 17, 2006
 
IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
 
DELAWARE
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
 
745 Atlantic Avenue
Boston, Massachusetts 02111
(Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)
 
(617) 535-4766
(Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e- 4(c))
o
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On July 17, 2006, Iron Mountain Incorporated (the "Company") completed its offering of $200,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 8-3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (the "Notes") pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in, an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of July 12, 2006, among the Company, the Guarantors named therein, Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc., as underwriters. The Notes were issued under a Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, by and among the Company, the Guarantors named therein and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (the "BONY Trust"), as trustee, as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2006 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), by and among the Company, the Guarantors named therein and the BONY Trust, as trustee. The Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
                
Date: July 20, 2006
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED
 
THE GUARANTORS NAMED HEREIN
 
AND
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Trustee
 
8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
 
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
Dated as of July 17, 2006
 
TO
 
SENIOR SUBORDINATED INDENTURE
 
Dated as of December 30, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of July 17, 2006 ("
Third Supplemental Indenture
"), is by and between IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
"), having its principal office at 745 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, the Guarantors signatory hereto, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "
Trustee
"), having its principal corporate trust office at 222 Berkeley Street, 2 Floor, Boston, MA 02116.
nd
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee, as successor trustee, are parties to that certain Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002 (the "
Indenture
"), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Securities to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Indenture;
WHEREAS, the issuance and sale of up to $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a series of the Company's Securities (the "
Notes
") have been authorized by resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on June 19, 2006;
WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue and sell $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Notes on the date hereof;
WHEREAS, the Company desires to enter into this Third Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.1(e) of the Indenture to supplement the Indenture to establish the form and terms of the Notes; and
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises stated herein and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto hereby enter into this Third Supplemental Indenture, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of Notes, as follows:
ARTICLE 1.
 
DEFINITIONS
(a)
       
All of the terms used in this Third Supplemental Indenture that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings specified in the Indenture, unless otherwise defined herein (in which case they shall have the meanings defined herein for the purposes of the Indenture as well as for the Third Supplemental Indenture) or unless the context otherwise requires, and for the purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture, the following terms have the meanings set forth in this Section:
"
Acquired Debt
" means, with respect to any specified Person:
 
 
 
 
 
"
Acquisition EBITDA
" means, as of any date of determination, with respect to an Acquisition EBITDA Entity, the sum of:
"
Acquisition EBITDA Entity
" means, as of any date of determination, a business or Person:
"
Additional Notes
" means such amount of the Company's 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (other than the Initial Notes) as the Company may issue from time to time under this Third Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof as part of the same series as the Initial Notes.
"
Adjusted EBITDA
" means, as of any date of determination and without duplication, the sum of:
 
2
 
 
Subsidiary or an Acquisition EBITDA Entity occurring in any period shall be excluded in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA.
"
Agent Members
" means members of, or participants in, the Depository.
"
Attributable Indebtedness
" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, as of the time of determination, the greater of:
"
Cash Equivalents
" means:
"
Change of Control
" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
3
 
 
or other property, other than any such transaction where (i) the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is not converted or exchanged at all (except to the extent necessary to reflect a change in the jurisdiction of incorporation) or is converted into or exchanged for (A) Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person or (B) cash, securities and other property (other than Capital Stock described in the foregoing clause (A)) of the surviving or transferee Person in an amount that could be paid as a Restricted Payment pursuant to Section 2.6(a) of the Third Supplemental Indenture (Section 4.8 of the Indenture) and (ii) immediately after such transaction, no "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than the Principal Stockholders (or any of them), is the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than a majority of the total outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee Person;
"
Consolidated Adjusted Net Income
" means, for any period, the net income (or net loss) of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to the extent included in calculating such net income or loss by excluding:
 
4
 
 
 
"
Consolidated Income Tax Expense
" means, for any period, the provision for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"
Consolidated Interest Expense
" means, for any period, without duplication, the sum of:
provided, however, that Consolidated Interest Expense will not include any gain or loss from extinguishment of debt, including write-off of debt issuance costs.
"
Consolidated Non-Cash Charges
" means, for any period, the aggregate depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (including without limitation any minority interest) reducing Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP (excluding any such non-cash charge to the extent that it requires an accrual of or reserve for cash charges for any future period).
"
Credit Agent
" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, or any successor or successors party thereto.
"
Credit Agreement
" means that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2004, as amended, among the Company, the lenders party thereto and the Credit Agent, as amended, restated, supplemented, modified, renewed, refunded, increased, extended, replaced or refinanced from time to time.
"
Definitive
Notes
" means Notes that are in the form of the Notes attached hereto as Exhibit A, that do not include the information called for by Section 2.15 of the Indenture.
"
EBITDA
" means for any period Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period increased by:
 
5
 
 
 
"
Equity Interests
" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
"
Equity Proceeds
" means:
"
Excluded Restricted Subsidiary
" means any Restricted Subsidiary organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States (as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act) and that has not delivered a Subsidiary Guarantee.
"
Existing Indebtedness
" means Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than under the Credit Agreement) in existence on the date of the Indenture, until such amounts are repaid.
"
Global Note
" means a permanent global Note that contains the paragraph referred to in Section 2.15.3 of the Indenture and the additional Schedule of Exchanges of Notes to the form of the Note attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that is deposited with and registered in the name of the Depository.
"
Initial Notes
" means the first $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 that are issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the Indenture.
"
Investments
" means, with respect to any Person, all investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of loans (including Guarantees), advances or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities and all other items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
"
Leverage Ratio
" means, at any date, the ratio of:
 
6
 
 
 
"
Lien
" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code, or equivalent statutes, of any jurisdiction).
"
Make-Whole Amount
" means, with respect to any Note, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of:
"
Make-Whole Average Life
" means, with respect to any date of redemption of Notes, the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) from such redemption date to July 15, 2011.
"
Make-Whole Price
" means, with respect to any Note, the greater of:
"
Market Price
" means:
The closing price for each day shall be:
 
7
 
 
transactions in such Equity Interests, or if such Equity Interests shall be listed on a stock exchange other than the New York Stock Exchange (including for this purpose the Nasdaq National Market), the last reported sale price regular way for such day, or in case no such reported sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices regular way for such day, in each case on the principal national securities exchange on which such Equity Interests are listed or admitted to trading (which shall be the national securities exchange on which the greatest number of such Equity Interests have been traded during such 20 consecutive trading days); or
"
Net Proceeds
" means the aggregate cash proceeds received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale, which amount is equal to the excess, if any, of:
 
8
 
 
(including, without limitation, withholding taxes on the remittance of such amount).
"
Notes
" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Third Supplemental Indenture. The Initial Notes and any Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Third Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture.
"
Permitted Investments
" means:
"
Permitted Liens
" means:
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
"
Principal Stockholders
" means each of Vincent J. Ryan, Schooner Capital LLC, C. Richard Reese, Kent P. Dauten, B. Thomas Golisano and their respective Affiliates.
"
Qualified Equity Offering
" means an offering of Capital Stock, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company for Dollars, whether registered or exempt from registration under the Securities Act.
"
Qualified Issuer
" means:
"
Qualifying Sale and Leaseback Transaction
" means any Sale and Leaseback Transaction between the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and any bank, insurance company or other lender or investor providing for the leasing to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary of any property (real or personal) which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such lender or investor or to any Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor and where the property in question has been constructed or acquired after the date of the Third Supplemental Indenture.
"
Refinancing Indebtedness
" means new Indebtedness incurred or given in exchange for, or the proceeds of which are used to repay, redeem, defease, extend, refinance, renew, replace or refund, other Indebtedness;
provided, however
, that:
 
11
 
 
so repaid, redeemed, defeased, extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced or refunded or shall mature after the maturity date of the Notes;
"
Restricted Subsidiary
" means:
which, in the case of (1) or (2), is not designated by the Board of Directors as an "Unrestricted Subsidiary."
"
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
" means any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which a Person sells or transfers any property or asset in connection with the leasing, or the resale against installment payments, of such property or asset to the seller or transferor.
"
Senior Bank Debt
" means all Obligations outstanding under or in connection with the Credit Agreement (including Guarantees of such Obligations by Subsidiaries of the Company).
 
12
 
 
 
"
Senior Debt
" means:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, Senior Debt shall not include:
"
Treasury Rate
" means, at any time of computation, the yield to maturity at such time (as compiled by and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519), which has become publicly available at least two business days prior to the date of the redemption notice or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data) of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity most nearly equal to the Make-Whole Average Life;
provided, however
, that if the Make-Whole Average Life is not equal to the constant maturity of the United States Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Rate shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the Make-Whole Average Life is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used.
"
Unrestricted Subsidiary
" means:
 
13
 
 
 
As of the date hereof, the following Subsidiaries of the Company have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries of Iron Mountain Global, Inc. (including Iron Mountain Europe Limited, Iron Mountain Cayman Ltd., Iron Mountain Mexico, S.A. de R.L. de C.V. and their respective Subsidiaries), Iron Mountain Assurance Corporation, Mountain West Palm Real Estate, Inc. and Upper Providence Venture I, L.P.
"
Voting Stock
" means any class or classes of Capital Stock pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of any Person (irrespective of whether or not, at the time, stock of any other class or classes has, or might have, voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
"
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
"
Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary
" means any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company all of the outstanding Capital Stock or other ownership interests of which (other than directors' qualifying shares) shall at the time be owned by the Company or by one or more Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company.
"
1996 Indenture Date
" means October 1, 1996.
"
1999 Indenture Date
" means April 26, 1999.
"
6 5/8% Notes
" means the Company's 6 5/8%
Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
"
7% Notes
" means the Company's 7%
GBP Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
"
7% Notes
" means the Company's 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
"
8% Notes
" means the Company's 8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 issued pursuant to the indenture dated April 26, 1999, by and among the Company, certain of its subsidiaries and the Trustee.
"
8 5/8% Notes
" means the Company's Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 issued pursuant to the indenture dated April 3, 2001, by and among the Company, certain of its subsidiaries and the Trustee.
 
 
14
 
 
 
The definitions of the following terms may be found in the Sections indicated as follows:
 
ARTICLE 2.
 
FORM AND TERMS OF THE NOTES
Section 2.1.
         
.
Form and Dating
  
(a)
General
. The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof.
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture (or in the case of any Guarantor that becomes such after the date hereof, a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 2.6(g) of this Third Supplemental Indenture (Section 4.14 of the Indenture)), expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture (as supplemented by this Third Supplemental Indenture), the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
(b)
     
Global Notes.
Notes shall be issued initially in the form of the Global Notes, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Depository at its New York office, and registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depository or its nominee as hereinafter provided.
Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Service Agent, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.4 hereof.
 
15
 
(c)
       
Book-Entry Provisions.
This Section 2.1(c) shall apply only to the Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of the Depository.
The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.1(c), authenticate and deliver the Global Notes that (i) shall be registered in the name of the Depository or the nominee of the Depository and (ii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depository or pursuant to the Depository's instructions or held by the Service Agent.
Agent Members shall have no rights either under the Third Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture with respect to any Global Notes held on their behalf by the Depository or by the Service Agent or under such Global Notes, and the Depository may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Notes for all purposes whatsoever.
(d)
      
Definitive Notes.
Notes issued in certificated form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without including the text referred to in Section 2.15.3 of the Indenture). Except as provided in Section 2.4, owners of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of certificated Securities.
The Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Company signed by an Officer, authenticate up to $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes and such amount of Additional Notes as the Company may issue from time to time.
The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") to act as Depository with respect to the Global Notes. The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent with respect to the Global Notes.
(a)
       
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes.
The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depository, in accordance with the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture and the procedures of the Depository therefor. Beneficial interests in the Global Notes may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Global Notes.
(b)
       
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes
. When Definitive Notes are presented by a Holder to the Registrar with a request:
 
16
 
 
of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing.
(c)
     
Restrictions on Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Third Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture (other than the provisions set forth in subsection (d) of this Section 2.4), the Global Notes may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository, by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or to another nominee of the Depository, or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository.
then the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, authenticate and deliver, Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Notes in exchange for such Global Notes.
(e)
     
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of the Global Notes
. At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by the Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
 
17
 
 
charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof).
With respect to the Notes issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, the following Sections supplement Article III of the Indenture:
Prior to July 15, 2011, the Notes shall be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the Make-Whole Price, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the applicable redemption date. On and after July 15, 2011, the Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption price (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning on July 15 of the years indicated below:
 
18
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to July 15, 2009 the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem the Notes at a redemption price of 108.75% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and Liquidated Damages if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings;
provided
that:
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
In the event that the Company shall commence an Asset Sale Offer pursuant to Section 4.17 hereof, it shall follow the procedures specified below:
The Asset Sale Offer shall remain open for 20 Business Days after the Commencement Date relating to such Asset Sale Offer, except to the extent required to be extended by applicable law (as so extended, the "Offer Period"). No later than one Business Day after the termination of the Offer Period (the "Purchase Date"), the Company shall purchase the principal amount (the "Offer Amount") of Notes required to be purchased in such Asset Sale Offer pursuant to Sections 3.2 and 4.17 hereof or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered in response to the Asset Sale Offer.
If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest payment record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any interest accrued to such Purchase Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer.
On the Commencement Date of any Asset Sale Offer, the Company shall send or cause to be sent, by first class mail, a notice to each of the Holders, with a copy to the Trustee. Such notice, which shall govern the terms of the Asset Sale Offer, shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable the Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer and shall state:
 
19
 
On or before 12:00 noon on each Purchase Date, the Company shall irrevocably deposit with the Trustee or Paying Agent in immediately available funds the aggregate purchase price with respect to a principal amount of Notes equal to the Offer Amount, together with accrued interest thereon, to be held for payment in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.9. On the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment, on a
pro rata
basis to the extent necessary, an aggregate principal amount equal to the Offer Amount of Notes and other notes (in accordance with the terms of Section 4.17 of the Indenture) tendered pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and such other notes or portions thereof tendered, (ii) deliver or cause the Paying Agent or depositary, as the case may be, to deliver to the Trustee Notes so accepted and (iii) deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.9. The Company, depositary or Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than three Business Days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price with respect to the Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Note, and the Trustee shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note, to such Holder, equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of such Holder's Notes surrendered. Any Note not accepted in the Asset Sale Offer shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof. The Company shall publicly announce in a newspaper of general circulation the results of the Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date.
 
The Asset Sale Offer shall be made by the Company in compliance with all applicable laws, including, without limitation, Regulation 14E of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, to the extent applicable, and all other applicable federal and state securities laws.
 
20
 
 
Each purchase pursuant to this Section 3.9 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.1 through 3.6 hereof to the extent applicable.
In the event the amount of Excess Proceeds to be applied to an Asset Sale Offer would result in the purchase of a principal amount of Notes which is not evenly divisible by $1,000, the Trustee shall promptly refund to the Company the portion of such Excess Proceeds that is not necessary to purchase the immediately lesser principal amount of Notes that is so divisible.
With respect to the Notes issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, Sections 2.6(a) through 2.6(l) are added to Article IV of the Indenture.
4.8.
Restricted Payments
.
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
unless, at the time of such Restricted Payment:
 
21
 
 
 
The foregoing provisions will not prohibit:
The Restricted Payments described in clauses (2), (3), (5) and (6) of the immediately preceding paragraph shall be Restricted Payments that shall be permitted to be taken in accordance with
 
22
 
 
such paragraph but shall reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section, and the Restricted Payments described in clauses (1) and (4) of the immediately preceding paragraph shall be Restricted Payments that shall be permitted to be taken in accordance with such paragraph and shall not reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section.
If an Investment results in the making of a Restricted Payment, the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments deemed to have been made as calculated under the foregoing provision shall be reduced by the amount of any net reduction in such Investment (resulting from the payment of interest or dividends, loan repayment, transfer of assets or otherwise) to the extent such net reduction is not included in the Company's EBITDA;
provided
,
however
, that the total amount by which the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments may be reduced may not exceed the lesser of (a) the cash proceeds received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with such net reduction and (b) the initial amount of such Investment. In addition, for the avoidance of doubt and to avoid double counting, if an Investment results in the making of a Restricted Payment, then the subsequent assignment, contribution, distribution or other transfer of such Investment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to any Excluded Restricted Subsidiary or Unrestricted Subsidiary shall not be considered a new Investment or Restricted Payment and shall not further reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section.
If the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments calculated under the foregoing provision includes an Investment in an Unrestricted Subsidiary or other Person that thereafter becomes a Restricted Subsidiary, such Investment will no longer be counted as a Restricted Payment for purposes of calculating the aggregate amount of Restricted Payments.
For the purpose of making any Restricted Payment calculations under the Indenture:
 
The Board of Directors may designate a Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary in compliance with the Section 4.15 of the Indenture. Upon such designation, all outstanding Investments by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (except to the extent repaid in cash) in the
23
 
 
 
Subsidiary so designated will be deemed to be Restricted Payments made at the time of such designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under the first paragraph of this covenant. Such designation will only be permitted if such Restricted Payment would be permitted at such time and if such Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
4.9.
Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Preferred Stock
.
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guaranty or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable with respect to (collectively, "incur") any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) and the Company shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; provided, however, that the Company may incur Indebtedness and may permit a Restricted Subsidiary to incur Indebtedness if at the time of such incurrence and after giving effect thereto the Leverage Ratio would be less than 6.5 to 1.0.
The foregoing limitations shall not apply to:
 
24
 
 
 
4.10.
Liens
. Neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) upon any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired, or any income, profits or proceeds therefrom, or assign or otherwise convey any right to receive income therefrom, unless (a) in the case of any Lien securing any Indebtedness that is subordinate to the Notes, the Notes are secured by a Lien on such property, assets or proceeds that is senior in priority to such Lien and (b) in the case of any other Lien, the Notes are equally and ratably secured with the obligation or liability secured by such Lien.
4.11.
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries
. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to:
However, the preceding restrictions will not apply to encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
 
25
 
 
 
4.12.
Transactions with Affiliates
. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into any contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate (each of the foregoing, an "Affiliate Transaction"), unless:
 
26
 
 
 
The following items shall not be deemed Affiliate Transactions and therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of the prior paragraph:
The provisions set forth in clause (b) above shall not apply to sales of inventory by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to any Affiliate in the ordinary course of business. The provisions of clause (b) (ii) above shall not apply to loans or advances to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from, or equity investments in the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary by, any Affiliate to the extent permitted by the provisions of Section 4.9 of the Indenture.
4.13.
Certain Senior Subordinated Debt
.
The Company shall not incur any Indebtedness that is subordinated or junior in right of payment to any Senior Debt of the Company and senior in any respect in right of payment to the Notes. The Company shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to incur any Indebtedness that is subordinated or junior in right of payment to its Senior Debt and senior in any respect in right of payment to its Subsidiary Guarantee.
4.14.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantees
.
If any entity (other than an Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) shall become a Restricted Subsidiary after the date of the Third Supplemental Indenture, then such Restricted Subsidiary shall execute a supplemental indenture in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto, pursuant to which it shall provide a Subsidiary Guarantee and deliver an Opinion of Counsel with respect thereto, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
No Restricted Subsidiary (including any Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) shall consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Restricted Subsidiary is the surviving Person), another Person (other than the Company) whether or not affiliated with such Restricted Subsidiary unless:
 
27
 
 
In the event of:
then such Restricted Subsidiary (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of such a merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Restricted Subsidiary or in the event of the designation of such Restricted Subsidiary as an Unrestricted Subsidiary) or the Person acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of such Restricted Subsidiary) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee, provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 4.17 of the Indenture.
4.15.
Designation of Unrestricted Subsidiaries
. The Board of Directors may designate any Subsidiary (including any Restricted Subsidiary or any newly acquired or newly formed Subsidiary) to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary so long as:
 
28
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not designate as an Unrestricted Subsidiary any Subsidiary which, on the 1999 Indenture Date, was a Significant Subsidiary, and may not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets of any such Significant Subsidiary to an Unrestricted Subsidiary, other than in the ordinary course of business, in each case other than Iron Mountain Global, Inc. and its Subsidiaries (including without limitation Iron Mountain Europe Limited and its Subsidiaries).
The Board of Directors may designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that such designation will be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation will only be permitted if:
4.16.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
. The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction unless:
4.17.
Asset Sales
. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to:
 
29
 
 
 
that in the case of either clause (1) or (2) above, whether in a single transaction or a series of related transactions:
 
provided
,
however
, that the amount of:
shall be deemed to be cash for purposes of this provision; and provided, further, that the 75% limitation referred to in the foregoing clause (ii) (y) shall not apply to any Asset Sale in which the cash portion of the consideration received therefrom is equal to or greater than what the after-tax proceeds would have been had such Asset Sale complied with the aforementioned 75% limitation.
A transfer of assets or issuance of Equity Interests by the Company to a Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary or by a Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or to another Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary will not be deemed to be an Asset Sale.
Within 360 days of any Asset Sale, the Company may, at its option, apply an amount equal to the Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale either:
 
30
 
 
 
Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company may temporarily reduce Senior Bank Debt or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by the Indenture. Any Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale that are not applied or invested as provided in the first sentence of this paragraph will be deemed to constitute "Excess Proceeds." When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $10.0 million, the Company shall make an offer to all Holders of the Notes, all holders of the 8% Notes, the 8 5/8% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 7% Notes and the 6 5/8% Notes and the holders of any future Indebtedness ranking
pari passu
with the Notes, which Indebtedness contains similar provisions requiring the Company to repurchase such Indebtedness (an "Asset Sale Offer"), to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds, at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Notes and other
pari passu
Indebtedness (including the 8% Notes, the 8 5/8% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 7% Notes and the 6 5/8% Notes) tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company may use any remaining Excess Proceeds for general corporate purposes. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee shall select the Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Upon completion of such offer to purchase, the amount of Excess Proceeds shall be reset at zero.
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with each repurchase of Notes pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.17, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Asset Sale provisions of the Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
An Asset Sale Offer shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.9 hereof. No later than the date which is five Business Days after the date on which the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $10.0 million, the Company shall notify the Trustee of such Asset Sale Offer and provide the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate setting forth the calculations used in determining the amount of Net Proceeds to be applied to the purchase of Notes. The Company shall commence or cause to be commenced the Asset Sale Offer on a date no later than 15 Business Days after such notice (the "Commencement Date").
(a)
           
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer") at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment").
 
31
 
 
 
Within 30 calendar days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, stating:
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to the repurchase of the Notes in connection with a Change of Control. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 4.18, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of the Indenture or the Third Supplemental Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
 
(b)
           
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
32
 
 
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes so accepted the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; provided that each such new Note shall be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Prior to complying with the provisions of this Section 4.18, but in any event within 90 calendar days following a Change of Control, the Company shall either repay all outstanding Senior Debt or obtain the requisite consents, if any, under all agreements governing outstanding Senior Debt to permit the repurchase of Notes required by this Section 4.18. The Company shall publicly announce in The Wall Street Journal, or if no longer published, a national newspaper of general circulation, the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.18 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
If on any date following the date of this Third Supplemental Indenture:
(or, if any such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company as a replacement agency); and
then, beginning on that day and continuing at all times thereafter regardless of any subsequent changes in the rating of the Notes, Sections 3.9, 4.8, 4.9, 4.11, 4.12, 4.15 and 4.17, clause (3) of Section 4.14, clause (2) of Section 4.16 and clause (d) of Section 5.1 of the Indenture shall no longer be applicable to the Notes.
 
33
 
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, Article XII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Notes shall constitute a Series to be guaranteed by the Guarantors pursuant to Article XII of the Indenture.
With respect to the Notes issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, Article VIII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Company shall have the option to effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance pursuant to Article VIII of the Indenture. In connection with any Covenant Defeasance, the Company shall be released from its obligations under the covenants specified in Sections 4.2 and 5.1 of the Indenture and Section 2.6 of this Third Supplemental Indenture.
With respect to the Notes issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, Article XIII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Notes shall be subject to subordination pursuant to Article XIII of the Indenture.
With respect to the Notes issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, Section 4.2 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
Whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the Commission, so long as any Notes are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Holders of Notes:
In addition, whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the Commission, the Company will file a copy of all such information and reports with the Commission for public availability (unless the Commission will not accept such a filing) and make such information available to investors who request it in writing.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at any time the Notes are guaranteed by any direct or indirect parent company of the Company, the indenture will permit the Company to satisfy its obligations under this covenant with respect to financial information relating to the Company by furnishing financial information relating to such direct or indirect parent company;
provided
,
however
, that the same is accompanied by consolidating information that explains in reasonable detail the differences between the information relating to such direct or indirect parent company and any of its Subsidiaries other than the Company and its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the information relating to the Company, the Guarantors and the other Subsidiaries of the Company on a standalone basis, on the other hand.
 
34
 
 
Section 6.1 of the Indenture is amended with regard to this Third Supplemental Indenture and the Notes issued hereunder by deleting the $10.0 million threshold in Sections 6.1(e)(ii) and 6.1(f) and substituting in lieu thereof the threshold of $50.0 million.
ARTICLE 3.
 
MISCELLANEOUS
The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
All covenants and agreements in this Third Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
In case any provision in this Third Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
This Third Supplemental Indenture and the Notes created hereby shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to any conflicts of law provisions (other than Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law) that might cause this Third Supplemental Indenture and the Notes to be governed by or construed or enforced in accordance with the laws of any other jurisdiction.
The Indenture, as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, remains in full force and effect as of the date hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any provision of the Indenture shall conflict with any provision of this Third Supplemental Indenture, the terms of this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed controlling and the conflicting provision of the Indenture shall be null and void to the extent of such conflict.
 
[The rest of this page has been intentionally left blank.]
35
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and attested, all as of the date and year first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
FORM
OF
NOTES
 
 
[Face of Note]
8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED
promises to pay to CEDE & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $200 Million Dollars on July 15, 2018.
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15
Record Dates: January 1 and July 1
Dated: July 17, 2006
IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED
 
 
(SEAL)
This is one of the Notes
referred to in the within-
mentioned Indenture:
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018
This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository, by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such a successor Depository.
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Notes in definitive form, this Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository. Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) ("DTC"), to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
1.
            
INTEREST
. Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 8 % per annum from July 17, 2006 until July 15, 2018. The Company shall pay interest, semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance;
provided
that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date;
provided
,
further
, that the first Interest Payment Date shall be January 15, 2007. The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest to the extent allowed in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal from time to time on demand at a rate equal to the per annum rate on the Notes then in effect; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest to the extent allowed in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
2.
            
METHOD
OF
PAYMENT
. The Company will pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company, however, may pay principal, premium, if any, and interest by check payable in such money. It may mail an interest check to a Holder's registered address.
3.
            
PAYING
AGENT,
REGISTRAR
AND
SERVICE
AGENT
. Initially, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as paying agent, registrar and service agent. The Notes may be presented for registration of transfer and exchange at the offices of the
 
A-2
 
 
 
registrar. The Company may change any paying agent, service agent or registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
4.
            
INDENTURE
. The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of December 30, 2002 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by a Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 17, 2006 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Notes issued under the Indenture are subordinated unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $200,000,000 in aggregate principal amount.
5.
            
OPTIONAL
REDEMPTION
. Prior to July 15, 2011, the Notes shall be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the Make-Whole Price, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the applicable redemption date. On and after July 15, 2011, the Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption price (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on July 1 of the years indicated below:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to July 15, 2009 the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem the Notes at a redemption price of 108.75% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and Liquidated Damages if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings; provided that (i) at least $130.0 million in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (including any Additional Notes) issued under the Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption (excluding Notes held by the Company and the Company's Subsidiaries) and (ii) the redemption must occur within six months of the date of the closing of any such Qualified Equity Offering.
6.
            
NOTICE
OF
REDEMPTION
. Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 10 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed at such Holder's address of record. The Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000, unless all the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. In the event of a redemption of less than all of the Notes, the Notes will be chosen for redemption by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture. On and after the redemption date, interest ceases to accrue on the Notes or portions of them called for redemption.
If this Note is redeemed subsequent to a Record Date with respect to any Interest Payment Date specified above and on or prior to such Interest Payment Date, then any accrued interest will be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on such Record Date.
 
A-3
 
 
 
 
7.
            
MANDATORY
REDEMPTION
. Except as set forth in paragraph 8 below, the Company shall not be required to repurchase or to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes. There are no sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
8.
            
REPURCHASE
AT
OPTION
OF
HOLDER
. This Note is subject to purchase at the option of the Holder upon the circumstances set forth in Sections 3.9, 4.17 and 4.18 of the Indenture.
9.
            
SUBORDINATION
. The payment of the principal of, interest on or any other amounts due on the Notes is subordinated in right of payment to all existing and future Senior Debt of the Company, as described in the Indenture. Each Holder, by accepting a Note, agrees to such subordination and authorizes and directs the Trustee on its behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination so provided and appoints the Trustee as its attorney-in-fact for such purpose.
10.
          
DENOMINATIONS,
TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE
. The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
11.
          
PERSONS
DEEMED
OWNERS
. The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
12.
          
AMENDMENT,
SUPPLEMENT
AND
WAIVER
. Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes (including, in each case, Additional Notes, if any). Without the consent of any Holder of the Notes, the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to, in addition to other events more fully described in the Indenture, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to Holders of the Notes in the case of a merger or consolidation, make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder, or comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA.
13.
          
DEFAULTS
AND
REMEDIES
. An Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs upon the occurrence of any of the following events: the default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of the Indenture); the default in payment when due of the principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of the Indenture); the failure by the Company to comply with Section 4.18 of the Indenture; the failure by the Company or any Guarantor for 60 days after written notice from the Trustee or Holders of not less than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) outstanding to comply with any of its other agreements in the Indenture, Notes or the Subsidiary Guarantees; the default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for
 
A-4
 
 
 
money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee exists on the date of the Indenture or is created thereafter, if: (i) such default results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity or shall constitute a default in the payment of such Indebtedness at final maturity of such Indebtedness; and (ii) the principal amount of any such Indebtedness that has been accelerated or not paid at maturity, when added to the aggregate principal amount of all other such Indebtedness that has been accelerated or not paid at maturity, exceeds $10.0 million; the failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $10.0 million, which judgments remain unpaid, undischarged or unstayed for a period of 60 days; certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary; or except as permitted by the Indenture or the Subsidiary Guarantees, any Subsidiary Guarantee issued by a Restricted Subsidiary shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect, or any Restricted Subsidiary or any Person acting on behalf of any Restricted Subsidiary shall deny or disaffirm in writing its obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee.
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately; provided, however, that if any Obligation with respect to Senior Bank Debt is outstanding pursuant to the Credit Agreement upon a declaration of acceleration of the Notes, the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will not be payable until the earlier of: (1) the day which is five business days after written notice of acceleration is received by the Company and the Credit Agent; or (2) the date of acceleration of the Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary, the principal of, and premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest on all outstanding Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. In the event of a declaration of acceleration of the Notes because an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of the acceleration of any Indebtedness described in Section 6.1(e) of the Indenture, the declaration of acceleration of the Notes shall be automatically annulled if the holders of any Indebtedness described in such section have rescinded the declaration of acceleration in respect of such Indebtedness within 30 days from the date of such declaration and if: (1) the annulment of the acceleration of the Notes would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a competent jurisdiction; and (2) all existing Events of Default, except non-payment of principal or interest on the Notes that became due solely because of the acceleration of the Notes, have been cured or waived.
Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required, upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take thereto.
14.
          
SUBSIDIARY
GUARANTEES.
Payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest (including interest on overdue principal, if any, and interest, if lawful) on the Notes is guaranteed on an unsecured, senior subordinated basis by the Guarantors pursuant to Article XII of the Indenture.
15.
          
TRUSTEE
DEALINGS
WITH
COMPANY
. The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
 
A-5
 
 
 
 
16.
          
NO
RECOURSE
AGAINST
OTHERS
. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, as such, of the Company or any Guarantor shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guarantor under the Notes, the Subsidiary Guarantees or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note and the related Subsidiary Guarantees waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
17.
          
AUTHENTICATION
. This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
18.
          
ABBREVIATIONS
. Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
19.
          
CUSIP
NUMBERS
. Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Iron Mountain Incorporated
745 Atlantic Avenue
Boston, Massachusetts 02111
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
 
A-6
 
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT FORM
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
and irrevocably appoint
                                                                                                                                      
to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
 
Date: __________
 
Your Signature:
                                                                                                                                                   
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
 
A-7
 
 
 
 
OPTION OF HOLDER TO ELECT PURCHASE
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.17 or 4.18 of the Indenture, check the box below:
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.17 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $__________
 
 
 
A-8
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF NOTES
*
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for other Notes have been made:
 
_________________________
* This schedule should be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 
A-9
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
FORM
OF
SUPPLEMENTAL
INDENTURE
TO
BE
DELIVERED
BY
FUTURE
GUARANTORS
SUPPLEMENTAL
INDENTURE
(this "
Supplemental Indenture
"), dated as of ________________, 20__, among _______________ (the "
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
"), a subsidiary of Iron Mountain Incorporated (or its successor), a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
"), the Company, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "
Trustee
").
W I T N E S S E T H
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2006 (the indenture, as so supplemented, the "
Indenture
") providing for the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of up to $200,000,000 of 8 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (the "
Notes
");
WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "
Note Guarantee
"); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
1.
            
CAPITALIZED
TERMS
. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
2.
            
AGREEMENT
TO
GUARANTEE
. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees that its obligations to the Holder and the Trustee pursuant to this Subsidiary Guarantee shall be as expressly set forth in Article XII of the Indenture and in such other provisions of the Indenture as are applicable to the Guarantors (including, without limitation, Article XIII of the Indenture), and reference is made to the Indenture for the precise terms of this Supplemental Indenture. The terms of Article XII of the Indenture and such other provisions of the Indenture (including, without limitation, Article XIII of the Indenture) as are applicable to the Guarantors are incorporated herein by reference.
3.
            
EXECUTION
AND
DELIVERY
OF
SUBSIDIARY
GUARANTEES
.
(a)
           
If an Officer whose signature is on this Supplemental Indenture no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Subsidiary Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
(b)
           
The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof under the Indenture, shall constitute due delivery of the Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in this Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary.
 
 
 
 
4.
            
NO
RECOURSE
AGAINST
OTHERS
. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guarantor (including the Guaranteeing Subsidiary) under the Notes, any Subsidiary Guarantee, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
5.
            
NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN. THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
6.
            
COUNTERPARTS
. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
7.
            
EFFECT
OF
HEADINGS
. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
8.
            
THE
TRUSTEE
. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
Dated: _______________, 20___
[
GUARANTEEING
SUBSIDIARY
]
 
Name:
Title:
[
COMPANY
]
Name:
Title:
 
[
TRUSTEE
],
as Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


