FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20070323163402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e- 4(c))
o
 
On March 15, 2007, Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company (IM Nova Scotia), a wholly owned subsidiary of Iron Mountain Incorporated (the Company), issued, through private placement, C$175,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 7-1/2% CAD Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 (the Notes). The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The Company intends to use the net proceeds of this transaction to repay a portion of amounts outstanding under the Companys existing term loan facility. The Notes were issued under a Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, by and among the Company, the guarantors named therein and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (the BONY Trust), as trustee, as supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2007 (the Supplemental Indenture), by and among IM Nova Scotia, the Company and the other guarantors named therein and the BONY Trust, as trustee. The Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Notes were offered and sold only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and to persons outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act, including in Canada to accredited investors pursuant to National Instrument 45-106 - Prospectus and Registration Exemptions. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or applicable securities laws, and until so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The Notes are also exempt from the prospectus requirements of applicable Canadian securities laws and may not be resold in Canada except pursuant to a further exemption therefrom.
 
In connection with the sale of the Notes, IM Nova Scotia, the Company and the other guarantors entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of March 15, 2007, with the initial purchasers (the Registration Rights Agreement). Under the Registration Rights Agreement, IM Nova Scotia, the Company and the other guarantors agreed to (1) cause a registration statement relating to notes to be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) within 90 days after the date on which IM Nova Scotia, the Company and the other guarantors issued the Notes, (2) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the Commission on or prior to 180 days after the date on which IM Nova Scotia, the Company and the other guarantors issued the Notes, and (3) as soon as practicable following the effectiveness of such registration statement, commence an exchange offer through which the Company will exchange the Notes for freely tradable notes. IM Nova Scotia, the Company and the other guarantors are obligated to pay additional interest on the Notes if it does not satisfy certain of its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement within the time periods specified therein. The Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains only a summary of certain provisions of the Supplemental Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement. The summaries do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to those documents.  The Registration Rights Agreement contains representations, warranties and other provisions that were made or agreed to, among other things, to provide the parties thereto with specified rights and obligations and to allocate risk among them. Accordingly, the Registration Rights Agreement should not be relied upon as constituting a description of the state of affairs of any of the parties thereto or their affiliates at the time it was entered into or otherwise.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offering would be unlawful.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 23, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A
 
FORM OF NOTE
Exhibit B
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER
Exhibit C
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF EXCHANGE
Exhibit D
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE FROM ACQUIRING INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR
Exhibit E
 
FORM OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE TO BE DELIVERED BY FUTURE
 
GUARANTORS
THIS SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of March 15, 2007 (
Sixth Supplemental Indenture
), is by and between IRON MOUNTAIN NOVA SCOTIA FUNDING COMPANY, a Nova Scotia unlimited liability company (the 
Issuer
), having its principal office at 745 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, the Guarantors signatory hereto, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the 
Trustee
), having its principal corporate trust office at 222 Berkeley Street, 2
nd
Floor, Boston, MA 02116.
 
 
WHEREAS, Iron Mountain Incorporated (the 
Company
) and the Trustee, as successor trustee, are parties to that certain Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002 (the 
Indenture
), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Securities to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to issue and sell C$175,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a series of the Issuers Securities (the 
Notes
) on the date hereof;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer desires to enter into this Sixth Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.1(d) of the Indenture to supplement the Indenture to establish the form and terms of the Notes; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises stated herein and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto hereby enter into this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of Notes, as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.1.
 
Definitions
 
(a)
 
All of the terms used in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings specified in the Indenture, unless otherwise defined herein (in which case they shall have the meanings defined herein for the purposes of the Indenture as well as for the Sixth Supplemental Indenture) or unless the context otherwise requires, and for the purposes of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the following terms have the meanings set forth in this Section:
 
144A Global Note
means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depository or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
 
Acquired Debt
 means, with respect to any specified Person:
 
 
 
Acquisition EBITDA
 means, as of any date of determination, with respect to an Acquisition EBITDA Entity, the sum of:
 
 
 
Acquisition EBITDA Entity
 means, as of any date of determination, a business or Person:
 
 
 
Additional Amounts
 means any additional amounts which are required hereby or by any Security, under circumstances specified herein or therein, to be paid by the Issuer in respect of certain taxes imposed on Holders specified therein and which are owing to such Holders.
 
 
Additional Interest
 means all additional interest or liquidated damages then owing pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
 
Additional Notes
 means such amount of the Issuers 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 (other than the Initial Notes) as the Issuer may issue from time to time under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof as part of the same series as the Initial Notes.
 
Adjusted EBITDA
 means, as of any date of determination and without duplication, the sum of:
 
 
 
2
most recent four full fiscal quarters for which the financial results of such Acquisition EBITDA Entity are included in the EBITDA of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries under clause (1) above, and (ii) the denominator of which is 12. The effects of unusual items, including merger-related expenses permitted to be shown as a separate line item on a statement of operations in accordance with GAAP, or non-recurring items in respect of the Company, a Restricted Subsidiary or an Acquisition EBITDA Entity occurring in any period shall be excluded in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA.
 
Agent Members
 means members of, or Participants in, the Depository.
 
Applicable Procedures
 means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depository that apply to such transfer or exchange.
 
Attributable Indebtedness
 in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, as of the time of determination, the greater of:
 
 
 
Board of Directors
 means the Board of Directors of the Company or the Issuer, as appropriate, or any duly authorized committee thereof.
 
Broker-Dealer
 has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
CAD Make-Whole Amount
 means, with respect to any note, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of:
 
 
(2)
 
the outstanding principal amount of such note.
 
CAD Make-Whole Average Life
 means, with respect to any date of redemption of notes, the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) from such redemption date to March 15, 2012.
 
CAD Make-Whole Price
 means, with respect to any note, the greater of:
 
 
(2)
 
the redemption price of such note on March 15, 2012.
 
3
CAD Yield
 means, at any time of computation, the yield to maturity at such time, compounded, semi-annually, which a non-callable Government of Canada bond would carry if issued, in Canadian dollars in Canada, at 100% of its principal amount at such time with a term to maturity approximately equal to CAD Make-Whole Average Life. The CAD Yield will be the average (rounded to four decimal places) of the yields determined by two major Canadian investment dealers selected by the Issuer.
 
Canadian Dollars
, 
CAD
 and 
C$
 mean lawful money of Canada.
 
Canadian Government Obligations
 means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the Canadian government or any agency thereof for the payment of which guarantee or obligations the full faith and credit of Canada is pledged.
 
Cash Equivalents
 means:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change of Control
 means the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
 
 
4
extent necessary to reflect a change in the jurisdiction of incorporation) or is converted into or exchanged for (A) Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person or (B) cash, securities and other property (other than Capital Stock described in the foregoing clause (A)) of the surviving or transferee Person in an amount that could be paid as a Restricted Payment pursuant to Section 2.6(a) of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture (Section 4.8 of the Indenture) and (ii) immediately after such transaction, no person or group (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than the Principal Stockholders (or any of them), is the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than a majority of the total outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee Person;
 
 
 
Company Guarantee
 means a Guarantee of the Company pursuant to Article XII of the Indenture.
 
Consolidated Adjusted Net Income
 means, for any period, the net income (or net loss) of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to the extent included in calculating such net income or loss by excluding:
 
 
 
 
 
5
Consolidated Income Tax Expense
 means, for any period, the provision for U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
 
Consolidated Interest Expense
 means, for any period, without duplication, the sum of:
 
 
(i)
 
amortization of debt discount;
 
(ii)
 
the net cost of interest rate contracts (including amortization of discounts);
 
(iii)
 
the interest portion of any deferred payment obligation;
 
(iv)
 
amortization of debt issuance costs; and
 
(v)
 
the interest component of Capital Lease Obligations of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries; plus
 
 
provided
,
however
, that Consolidated Interest Expense will not include any gain or loss from extinguishment of debt, including write-off of debt issuance costs.
 
Consolidated Non-Cash Charges
 means, for any period, the aggregate depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (including without limitation any minority interest) reducing Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP (excluding any such non-cash charge to the extent that it requires an accrual of or reserve for cash charges for any future period).
 
Credit Agent
 means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, or any successor or successors party thereto.
 
Credit Agreement
 means that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2004, as amended, among the Company, the lenders party thereto and the Credit Agent, as amended, restated, supplemented, modified, renewed, refunded, increased, extended, replaced or refinanced from time to time.
 
6
Definitive
 
Notes
 means Notes that are in the form of the Notes attached hereto as Exhibit A, that do not include the information called for by Section 2.15 of the Indenture.
 
Depository
 means, with respect to the Securities of any Series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, the Person designated as Depository for such Series by the Issuer; and if at any time there is more than one such Person, 
Depository
 as used with respect to the Securities of any Series shall mean the Depository with respect to the Securities of such Series.
 
EBITDA
 means for any period Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period increased by:
 
 
 
 
Equity Interests
 means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
 
Equity Proceeds
 means:
 
 
 
Exchange Notes
 means the Notes issued in the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2.04(f) hereof.
 
Exchange Offer
 has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
Excluded Restricted Subsidiary
 means any Restricted Subsidiary organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States (as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act) and that has not delivered a Subsidiary Guarantee.
 
Existing Indebtedness
 means Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than under the Credit Agreement) in existence on the date of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, until such amounts are repaid.
 
Global Note Legend
 means the legend set forth in Section 2.4(g)(2) hereof, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
 
7
Global Notes
 means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto and that bears the Global Note Legend, issued in accordance with Section 2.1, 2.4(b)(3), 2.4(b)(4), 2.4(d)(2) or 2.4(f) hereof.
 
Guarantors
 means the Company and each Subsidiary that is a signatory to the Indenture as a guarantor and each Subsidiary of the Company that in accordance with the terms of any Securities or a Series issued under the Indenture pursuant to any supplemental indenture relating to such Securities becomes a party to the Indenture as a guarantor.
 
IAI Global Note
 means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold to Institutional Accredited Investors.
 
Indirect Participant
 means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
 
Initial Notes
 means the first C$175,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7
%
Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 that are issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the Indenture.
 
Institutional Accredited Investor
 means an institution that is an accredited investor, as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act, who is not also a QIB.
 
Investments
 means, with respect to any Person, all investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of loans (including Guarantees), advances or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities and all other items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Issuer Order
 means a written order signed in the name of the Issuer by two Officers.
 
Leverage Ratio
 means, at any date, the ratio of:
 
 
 
(i)
  
   
the incurrence, repayment or retirement of any Indebtedness by the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries since the last day of the most recent full fiscal quarter of the Company;
 
(ii) 
   
  
if the Leverage Ratio is being determined in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, such Indebtedness; and
 
8
(iii)
   
the Indebtedness to be incurred in connection with the acquisition of any Acquisition EBITDA Entity.
 
Lien
means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code, or equivalent statutes, of any jurisdiction).
 
Market Price
 means:
 
 
 
The closing price for each day shall be:
 
 
 
Net Proceeds
 means the aggregate cash proceeds received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale, which amount is equal to the excess, if any, of:
 
9
 
 
(i) 
   
the amount of any Indebtedness which is secured by such asset and which is required to be repaid in connection with the disposition thereof; plus
 
(ii)
   
the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, in connection with such disposition or in connection with the transfer of such amount from such Restricted Subsidiary to the Company; plus
 
(iii) 
   
   
provisions for taxes, including income taxes, attributable to the disposition of such asset or attributable to required prepayments or repayments of Indebtedness with the proceeds thereof; plus
 
(iv)
   
if the Company does not first receive a transfer of such amount from the relevant Restricted Subsidiary with respect to the disposition of an asset by such Restricted Subsidiary and such Restricted Subsidiary intends to make such transfer as soon as practicable, the out-of-pocket expenses and taxes that the Company reasonably estimates will be incurred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary in connection with such transfer at the time such transfer is expected to be received by the Company (including, without limitation, withholding taxes on the remittance of such amount).
 
Note Guarantees
 means, collectively, the Subsidiary Guarantee and the Company Guarantee, and 
Note Guarantee
 means any one of them.
 
Notes
 has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Sixth Supplemental Indenture. The Initial Notes and any Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture.
 
Obligations
 means any principal, interest (including post-petition interest, whether or not allowed as a claim in any proceeding), penalties, fees, costs, expenses, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under or in connection with any Indebtedness.
 
Participant
 means, with respect to the Depository, a Person who has an account with the Depository and, with respect to CDS, shall include the Depository Trust Company.
 
Permitted Investments
 means:
 
 
10
 
 
(i)
   
such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) of the Company; or
 
(ii)
   
such Person is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) of the Company;
 
 
 
 
Permitted Liens
 means:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
Principal Stockholders
 means each of Vincent J. Ryan, Schooner Capital LLC, C. Richard Reese, Kent P. Dauten and their respective Affiliates.
 
Private Placement Legend
 means the legend set forth in Section 2.4(g)(1) hereof to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
 
QIB
 means a qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A.
 
Qualified Equity Offering
 means an offering of Capital Stock, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company for Dollars, whether registered or exempt from registration under the Securities Act.
 
Qualified Issuer
 means:
 
 
 
(i)
   
which has capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000; and
 
(ii)
   
the outstanding short-term debt securities of which are rated at least A-2 by Standard & Poors Rating Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or at least P-2 by Moodys Investors Service, or carry an equivalent rating by a nationally recognized rating agency if both of the two named rating agencies cease publishing ratings of investments.
 
Qualifying Sale and Leaseback Transaction
 means any Sale and Leaseback Transaction between the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and any bank, insurance company or other lender or investor providing for the leasing to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary of any property (real or personal) which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such lender or investor or to any Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor and where the property in question has been constructed or acquired after the date of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture.
 
Refinancing Indebtedness
 means new Indebtedness incurred or given in exchange for, or the proceeds of which are used to repay, redeem, defease, extend, refinance, renew, replace or refund, other Indebtedness;
provided, however
, that:
 
 
 
 
13
such new Indebtedness shall have a final scheduled maturity not earlier than the final scheduled maturity of the Indebtedness so repaid, redeemed, defeased, extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced or refunded and shall not permit redemption at the option of the holder earlier than the earliest date of redemption at the option of the holder of the Indebtedness so repaid, redeemed, defeased, extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced or refunded;
 
 
 
Registration Rights Agreement
 means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2007, among the Issuer and the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and with respect to any Additional Notes, one or more registration rights agreements among the Issuer, the Guarantors and the other parties thereto, as such agreements may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Issuer to the purchasers of Additional Notes to register such Additional Notes under the Securities Act.
 
Regulation S
 means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
 
Regulation S Global Note
 means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
 
Representative
 means, for the purposes of Article XIII, the Credit Agent or other agent, trustee or representative of any Senior Debt of the Issuer or a Guarantor, as the case may be.
 
Restricted Definitive Note
 means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
 
Restricted Global Note
 means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
 
Restricted Period
 means the 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S.
 
14
Restricted Subsidiary
 means:
 
 
 
which, in the case of (1) or (2), is not designated by the Board of Directors as an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
 
Rule 144
 means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
Rule 144A
 means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
Rule 903
 means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
Rule 904
 means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act.
 
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
 means any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which a Person sells or transfers any property or asset in connection with the leasing, or the resale against installment payments, of such property or asset to the seller or transferor.
 
Securities
 means the debentures, notes or other instruments of Indebtedness of the Issuer or the Company of any Series authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
 
Senior Bank Debt
 means all Obligations outstanding under or in connection with the Credit Agreement (including Guarantees of such Obligations by Subsidiaries of the Company).
 
Senior Debt
 means:
 
 
 
(i)
 
on a parity with or subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; or
 
(ii)
 
subordinated to Senior Debt on terms substantially similar to those of the Notes.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, Senior Debt shall not include:
 
15
 
 
 
 
Series
 or 
Series of Securities
 means each series of debentures, notes or other instruments of Indebtedness of the Issuer or the Company created pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 of the Indenture.
 
Shelf Registration Statement
 means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
Tax
 means any tax, duty, levy, impost, assessment, withholding or other governmental charge (including penalties and interest related thereto). 
Taxes
 and 
Taxation
 shall be construed to have corresponding meanings.
 
Unrestricted Definitive Note
 means a Definitive Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
Unrestricted Global Note
 means a Global Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
Unrestricted Subsidiary
 means:
 
 
 
As of the date hereof, the following Subsidiaries of the Company have been designated as Unrestricted Subsidiaries:
Subsidiaries of Iron Mountain Global, Inc. (including Iron Mountain Europe Limited, Iron Mountain Mexico, S.A. de R.L. de C.V. and their respective Subsidiaries but excluding, in any event, Iron Mountain Cayman Ltd., Iron Mountain (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited, Iron Mountain (Netherlands) B.V. and Iron Mountain Switzerland GmbH), Iron Mountain Assurance Corporation, Mountain West Palm Real Estate, Inc. and Upper Providence Venture I, L.P
.
 
Voting Stock
 means any class or classes of Capital Stock pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of any Person (irrespective of whether or not, at the time, stock of
 
16
any other class or classes has, or might have, voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
 
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
 means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
 
 
 
Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary
 means any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company all of the outstanding Capital Stock or other ownership interests of which (other than directors qualifying shares) shall at the time be owned by the Company or by one or more Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company.
 
1996 Indenture Date
 means October 1, 1996.
 
1999 Indenture Date
 means April 26, 1999.
 
6% Notes
 means the Companys 6%
 
Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
 
6 5/8% Notes
 means the Companys 6%
 
Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
 
7% Notes
 means the Companys 7%
 
GBP Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
 
7% Notes
 means the Companys 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
 
8% Notes
 means the Companys 8%
 
Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
 
8% Notes
 means the Companys 8
% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
 
8 5/8% Notes
 means the Companys Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 issued pursuant to the indenture dated April 3, 2001, by and among the Company, certain of its subsidiaries and the Trustee.
 
 
The definitions of the following terms may be found in the Sections indicated as follows:
 
17
 
 
 
 
Section 2.1.
 
Form and Dating.
 
(a)
 
General
. The Notes and the Trustees certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon). Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein, and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be in denominations of C$1,000 and integral multiples thereof.
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture, and the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture (or in the case of any Guarantor that becomes such after the date hereof, a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 2.6(g) of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture (Section 4.14 of the Indenture)), expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture (as supplemented by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture), the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
 
(b)
 
Global Note.
Notes shall be represented in the form of fully registered Global Notes, without interest coupons, held by or on behalf of the Depository as custodian of the Global Notes
 
18
(for its participants) and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, and registrations of ownership and transfers of the Notes will be made only through the depository services of CDS. The aggregate principal amount of the Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depository or its nominee as hereinafter provided.
 
Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein, and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of any Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Service Agent, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.4 hereof.
 
(c)
 
Book EntryProvisions.
This Section 2.1(c) shall apply only to the Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of the Depository.
 
The Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.1(c), authenticate and deliver the Global Notes that (i) shall be registered in the name of the Depository or the nominee of the Depository and (ii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depository or pursuant to the Depositorys instructions or held by the Service Agent.
 
Agent Members shall have no rights either under the Sixth Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture with respect to the Global Notes held on their behalf by the Depository or its nominee or by the Service Agent or under the Global Notes, and the Depository may be treated by the Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee as the absolute owner of the Global Notes for all purposes whatsoever.
 
Ownership of beneficial interests in each Global Note will be limited to Participants and Indirect Participants.
 
(d)
 
Definitive Notes.
Notes issued in certificated form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without including the text referred to in Section 2.4(g)(2) of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture). Except as provided in Section 2.4, owners of beneficial interests in the Global Note shall not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Definitive Notes.
 
Section 2.2.
 
Execution and Authentication.
 
The Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Issuer signed by an Officer (an 
Authentication Order
), authenticate up to C$175,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes and such amount of Additional Notes as the Company may issue from time to time.
 
Section 2.3.
 
Depository, Paying Agent and Sub-Paying Agent for Notes.
 
The Issuer initially appoints CDS to act as Depository with respect to the Global Notes. The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent with respect to the Global Notes. The Issuer initially appoints BNY Trust Company of Canada to act as Canadian sub-paying agent for the Notes.
 
 
19
Section 2.4.
 
Transfer and Exchange of Notes
.
 
(a)
 
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes.
The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depository, in accordance with the Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture and Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Global Notes may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Global Notes.
 
(b)
 
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
. The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through records maintained by the Depository or its nominee for such Global Note (with respect to interests of participants) and on the records of Participants (with respect to interests of Persons other than Participants), in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes will be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
 
(1)
 
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
. Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend;
provided, however
, that, prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.4(b)(1).
 
(2)
 
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes.
In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.4(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either:
 
(A)
 
both:
 
(i)
 
a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depository in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depository to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii)
 
instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
 
(B)
 
both:
 
(i)
 
a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depository in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depository to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
20
(ii)
 
instructions given by the Depository to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above.
 
Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.4(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.4(b)(2) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.4(i) hereof.
 
(3)
 
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note.
A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.4(b)(2) above and the Registrar receives the following:
 
(A)
 
if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
 
(C)
 
if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
 
(4)
 
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
. A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.4(b)(2) above and:
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
21
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
 
(ii)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above.
 
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
 
(c)
 
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes
.
 
(1)
 
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
 
(A)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(C)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
22
(D)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(E)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
 
(F)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
 
(G)
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
 
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.4(i) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.4(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depository and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.4(c)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
 
(2)
 
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
23
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
 
(ii)
 
if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(3)
 
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.4(b)(2) hereof, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.4(i) hereof, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.4(c)(3) will be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest requests through instructions to the Registrar from or through the Depository and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee will deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.4(c)(3) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
(d)
 
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
.
 
(1)
 
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes.
If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
 
(A)
 
if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
24
(C)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(D)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(E)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
 
(F)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
 
(G)
 
if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
 
the Trustee will cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note, and in all other cases, the IAI Global Note.
 
(2)
 
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
 
25
(ii)
 
if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.4(d)(2), the Trustee will cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
 
(3)
 
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
 
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2)(B), (2)(D) or (3) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
(e)
 
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
.
Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holders compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.4(e), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder must present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder must provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.4(e).
 
(1)
 
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following:
 
(A)
 
if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B)
 
if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
 
26
(C)
 
if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
 
(2)
 
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
 
(A)
 
such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B)
 
any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C)
 
any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D)
 
the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i)
 
if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
 
(ii)
 
if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(3)
 
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
 
(f)
 
Exchange Offer
.
Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate:
 
(1)
 
one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes accepted for
 
27
exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; and
 
(2)
 
Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company.
 
Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Notes so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Notes in the appropriate principal amount.
 
(g)
 
Legends
.
The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
 
(1)
 
Private Placement Legend.
 
(A)
 
Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
 
THE SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) EVIDENCED HEREBY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT), AND THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ISSUER THAT (A) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (1)(a) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A FOREIGN PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (c) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF APPLICABLE) OR (d) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE ISSUER IF THE ISSUER SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE ISSUER OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF
 
28
THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN CLAUSE (A) ABOVE. NO REPRESENTATION CAN BE MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF THE EXEMPTION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 FOR RESALE OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY.
 
(B)
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(4), (c)(2), (c)(3), (d)(2), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (f) of this Section 2.4 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
(2)
 
Global Note Legend
. Each Global Note will bear a legend in substantially the following form:
 
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.4 OF THE INDENTURE, (2) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.4(h) OF THE INDENTURE, (3) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE INDENTURE AND (4) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF IRON MOUNTAIN NOVA SCOTIA FUNDING COMPANY (THE ISSUER).
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY THE DEPOSITORY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF
CDS CLEARING AND DEPOSITORY SERVICES INC.
(CDS), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN RESPECT THEREOF IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CDS & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF CDS (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CDS & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF CDS), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CDS & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED PURSUANT TO A MASTER LETTER OF REPRESENTATIONS OF THE ISSUER TO CDS, AS SUCH LETTER MAY BE REPLACED OR AMENDED FROM TIME TO TIME.
 
(h)
 
Authentication of Definitive Notes in Absence of Depository
. If at any time:
 
(i) 
   
 
the Issuer determines that the Depository is no longer willing or able to properly discharge its responsibilities as Depository and the Issuer in unable to locate a qualified successor,
 
29
(ii)
  
   
the Issuer at its option elects to terminate the book-entry system through the Depository, or
 
(iii) 
   
 
it is required by law,
 
then the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, authenticate and deliver, Definitive Notes to each person the Depository identifies as a beneficial owner of the related Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Notes in exchange for such Global Notes.
 
(i)
 
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
. At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or beneficial interests in other Global Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in the Global Notes is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by the Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on the Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
 
(j)
 
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
.
 
(i)
  
   
To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof or at the Registrars request;
provided, however
, that Definitive Notes shall only be issued when one or more of the conditions of Section 2.4(h)(i)-(iii) have been satisfied.
 
(ii)
  
   
No service charge shall be made to a Holder of a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuer may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof).
 
(iii)
  
   
All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Issuer, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under the Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
(iv)
 
 The Issuer shall not be required to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date.
   
 
30
(v)
  
   
Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent, the Issuer and any Guarantor may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for all purposes, including receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes, and neither the Trustee, any Agent, the Issuer nor any Guarantor shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
(vi)
  
   
The Trustee shall authenticate Definitive Notes and the Global Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.2
hereof and Section 2.3 of the Indenture.
 
(vii)
 
   
All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.4 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
 
(viii)
 The registered Holder of a Definitive Note shall be permitted to transfer the Definitive Note upon payment of any taxes incidental thereto by executing the form of transfer provided on the reverse side of the Definitive Note.
   
 
Section 2.5.
 
Redemption
.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the following Sections supplement Article III of the Indenture:
 
 3.7.
 
Optional Redemption
.
 
Prior to March 15, 2012, the Notes shall be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Issuer, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the CAD Make-Whole Price, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, to but excluding the applicable redemption date. On and after March 15, 2012, the Notes shall be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Issuer, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the redemption price (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, to but excluding the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning on March 15 of the years indicated below:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to March 15, 2010 the Issuer may on any one or more occasions redeem the Notes at a redemption price of 107.500% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and Additional Interest and
Additional Tax Amounts, if any
, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings;
provided
that:
 
31
 
 
 
The Issuer may redeem the Notes, in whole but not in part, at its discretion at any time upon giving not less than 10 nor more than 60 days prior notice to the Holders (which notice shall be irrevocable and given in accordance with the procedures described in Section 10.2 of the Indenture), at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date fixed by the Company for redemption, (the Tax Redemption Date), and all Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts (if any) then due and which will become due on the Tax Redemption Date as a result of the redemption or otherwise (and in the case of Definitive Notes, subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts (if any) in respect thereof), if on the next date on which any amount would be payable in respect of the Notes, the Issuer has or would be required to pay Additional Tax Amounts, and the Issuer cannot avoid any such payment obligation taking reasonable measures available, as a result of:
 
(1)
 
any change in, or amendment to, the laws or treaties (or any regulations, or rulings promulgated thereunder) of the relevant Tax Authority affecting Taxation which becomes effective on or after March 15, 2007 (or, if the relevant Tax Authority has changed since March 15, 2007, the date on which the then current Tax Authority became the applicable Tax Authority under the Indenture); or
 
(2)
 
any change in, or amendment to, the existing official position or the introduction of an official position regarding the application, administration or interpretation of such laws, treaties, regulations or rulings (including a holding, judgment or order by a court of competent jurisdiction or a change in published practice), and becomes effective on or after March 15, 2007 (or, if the relevant Tax Authority has changed since March 15, 2007, the date on which the then current Tax Authority became the applicable Tax Authority under the Indenture).
 
The Issuer shall not give any such notice of redemption earlier than 90 days prior to the earliest date on which the Issuer would be obligated to make such payment or withholding if a payment in respect of the Notes were then due. Prior to the publication or, where relevant, mailing of any notice of redemption of the Notes pursuant to the foregoing, the Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee (a) an Officers Certificate to the effect that the Issuer cannot avoid such obligation to pay Additional Tax Amounts by taking reasonable measures available to it and (b) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Issuer will be obligated to pay Additional Tax Amounts as a result of an event described above.
 
 3.9.
 
Mandatory Redemption
.
 
The Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
 
32
 3.10
 
Asset Sale Offers
.
 
In the event that the Company shall commence an Asset Sale Offer pursuant to Section 4.17 hereof, it shall follow the procedures specified below:
 
The Asset Sale Offer shall remain open for 20 Business Days after the Commencement Date relating to such Asset Sale Offer, except to the extent required to be extended by applicable law (as so extended, the Offer Period). No later than one Business Day after the termination of the Offer Period (the Purchase Date), the Company shall purchase the principal amount (the Offer Amount) of Notes required to be purchased in such Asset Sale Offer pursuant to Sections 3.2 and 4.17 hereof or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered in response to the Asset Sale Offer.
 
If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest payment record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any interest accrued to such Purchase Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no Additional Interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer.
 
On the Commencement Date of any Asset Sale Offer, the Company shall send or cause to be sent, by first class mail, a notice to each of the Holders, with a copy to the Trustee. Such notice, which shall govern the terms of the Asset Sale Offer, shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable the Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer and shall state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33
Company so that only Notes in denominations of C$1,000, or integral multiples thereof, shall be purchased); and
 
 
On or before 12:00 noon on each Purchase Date, the Company shall irrevocably deposit with the Trustee or Paying Agent in immediately available funds the aggregate purchase price with respect to a principal amount of Notes equal to the Offer Amount, together with accrued interest thereon, to be held for payment in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.10. On the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment, on a
pro rata
basis to the extent necessary, an aggregate principal amount equal to the Offer Amount of Notes and other notes (in accordance with the terms of Section 4.17 of the Indenture) tendered pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and such other notes or portions thereof tendered, (ii) deliver or cause the Paying Agent or Depository, as the case may be, to deliver to the Trustee Notes so accepted and (iii) deliver to the Trustee an Officers Certificate stating that such Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.10. The Company, Depository or Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than three Business Days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price with respect to the Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Note, and the Trustee shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note, to such Holder, equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of such Holders Notes surrendered. Any Note not accepted in the Asset Sale Offer shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof. The Company shall publicly announce in a newspaper of general circulation the results of the Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date.
 
The Asset Sale Offer shall be made by the Company in compliance with all applicable laws, including, without limitation, Regulation 14E of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, to the extent applicable, and all other applicable federal and state securities laws.
 
Each purchase pursuant to this Section 3.10 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.1 through 3.6 hereof to the extent applicable.
 
In the event the amount of Excess Proceeds to be applied to an Asset Sale Offer would result in the purchase of a principal amount of Notes which is not evenly divisible by C$1,000, the Trustee shall promptly refund to the Company the portion of such Excess Proceeds that is not necessary to purchase the immediately lesser principal amount of Notes that is so divisible.
 
Section 2.6.
 
Additional Covenants
.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Sections 2.6(a) through 2.6(n) are added to Article IV of the Indenture.
 
(a)
 
Restricted Payments
.
 
4.8.
Restricted Payments
.
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
 
 
34
Company or such Restricted Subsidiary or dividends or distributions payable to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary);
 
 
 
 
unless, at the time of such Restricted Payment:
 
(i)
  
   
no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would occur as a consequence thereof; and
 
(ii)
  
   
the Company would, at the time of such Restricted Payment and after giving pro forma effect thereto, have been permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.9 of the Indenture; and
 
(iii)
  
   
such Restricted Payment, together with the aggregate of all other Restricted Payments made by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries after the 1996 Indenture Date is less than (x) the cumulative EBITDA of the Company, minus 1.75 times the cumulative Consolidated Interest Expense of the Company, in each case for the period (taken as one accounting period) from June 30, 1996, to the end of the Companys most recently ended fiscal quarter for which internal financial statements are available at the time of such Restricted Payment, plus (y) the aggregate net Equity Proceeds received by the Company from the issuance or sale since the 1996 Indenture Date of Equity Interests of the Company or of debt securities of the Company that have been converted into such Equity Interests (other than Equity Interests or convertible debt securities sold to a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company and other than Disqualified Stock or debt securities that have been converted into Disqualified Stock), plus (z) $2.0 million.
 
The foregoing provisions will not prohibit:
 
 
 
35
Subsidiary of the Company) of other Equity Interests of the Company (other than any Disqualified Stock);
 
 
 
 
 
The Restricted Payments described in clauses (2), (3), (5) and (6) of the immediately preceding paragraph shall be Restricted Payments that shall be permitted to be taken in accordance with such paragraph but shall reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section, and the Restricted Payments described in clauses (1) and (4) of the immediately preceding paragraph shall be Restricted Payments that shall be permitted to be taken in accordance with such paragraph and shall not reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section.
 
If an Investment results in the making of a Restricted Payment, the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments deemed to have been made as calculated under the foregoing provision shall be reduced by the amount of any net reduction in such Investment (resulting from the payment of interest or dividends, loan repayment, transfer of assets or otherwise) to the extent such net reduction is not included in the Companys EBITDA;
provided
,
however
, that the total amount by which the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments may be reduced may not exceed the lesser of (a) the cash proceeds received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with such net reduction and (b) the initial amount of such Investment. In addition, for the avoidance of doubt and to avoid double counting, if an Investment results in the making of a Restricted Payment, then the subsequent assignment, contribution, distribution or other transfer of such Investment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to any Excluded Restricted Subsidiary or Unrestricted Subsidiary shall not be considered a new Investment or Restricted Payment and shall not further reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section.
 
36
If the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments calculated under the foregoing provision includes an Investment in an Unrestricted Subsidiary or other Person that thereafter becomes a Restricted Subsidiary, such Investment will no longer be counted as a Restricted Payment for purposes of calculating the aggregate amount of Restricted Payments.
 
For the purpose of making any Restricted Payment calculations under the Indenture:
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors may designate a Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary in compliance with Section 4.15 of the Indenture. Upon such designation, all outstanding Investments by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (except to the extent repaid in cash) in the Subsidiary so designated will be deemed to be Restricted Payments made at the time of such designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under the first paragraph of this covenant. Such designation will only be permitted if such Restricted Payment would be permitted at such time and if such Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
 
(b)
 
Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Preferred Stock
.
 
4.9.
Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Preferred Stock
.
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guaranty or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable with respect to (collectively, incur) any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) and the Company shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; provided, however, that the Company may incur Indebtedness and may permit a Restricted Subsidiary to incur Indebtedness if at the time of such incurrence and after giving effect thereto the Leverage Ratio would be less than 6.5 to 1.0.
 
The foregoing limitations shall not apply to:
 
 
37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)
 
Liens
.
 
4.10.
Liens
. Neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) upon any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired, or any income, profits or proceeds therefrom, or assign or otherwise convey any right to receive income therefrom, unless (a) in the case of any Lien securing any Indebtedness that is subordinate to the Notes, the Notes are secured by a Lien on such property, assets or proceeds that is senior in priority to such Lien and (b) in the case of any other Lien, the Notes are equally and ratably secured with the obligation or liability secured by such Lien.
 
(d)
 
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries
.
 
4.11.
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries
. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create
 
38
or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to:
 
 
 
 
However, the preceding restrictions will not apply to encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39
 
(e)
 
Transactions with Affiliates
.
 
4.12.
Transactions with Affiliates
. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into any contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate (each of the foregoing, an Affiliate Transaction), unless:
 
 
 
(i)
  
   
with respect to any Affiliate Transaction involving aggregate payments in excess of $5.0 million, a resolution of the Board of Directors set forth in an Officers Certificate certifying that such Affiliate Transaction complies with clause (a) above and such Affiliate Transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the Board of Directors; and
 
(ii)
  
   
with respect to any Affiliate Transaction involving aggregate payments in excess of $10.0 million, an opinion as to the fairness to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary from a financial point of view issued by an investment banking, appraisal or accounting firm of national standing.
 
The following items shall not be deemed Affiliate Transactions and therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of the prior paragraph:
 
 
 
 
40
 
The provisions set forth in clause (b) above shall not apply to sales of inventory by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to any Affiliate in the ordinary course of business. The provisions of clause (b) (ii) above shall not apply to loans or advances to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from, or equity investments in the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary by, any Affiliate to the extent permitted by the provisions of Section 4.9 of the Indenture.
 
(f)
 
Certain Senior Subordinated Debt
.
 
4.13.
Certain Senior Subordinated Debt
.
The Company shall not incur any Indebtedness that is subordinated or junior in right of payment to any Senior Debt of the Company and senior in any respect in right of payment to the Company Guarantee of the Notes. The Company shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to incur any Indebtedness that is subordinated or junior in right of payment to its Senior Debt and senior in any respect in right of payment to its Subsidiary Guarantee.
 
(g)
 
Additional Subsidiary Guarantees
.
 
4.14.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantees
.
If any entity (other than an Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) shall become a Restricted Subsidiary after the date of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, then such Restricted Subsidiary shall execute a supplemental indenture in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto, pursuant to which it shall provide a Subsidiary Guarantee and deliver an Opinion of Counsel with respect thereto, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
No Restricted Subsidiary (including any Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) shall consolidate (or, for the avoidance of doubt, amalgamate) with or merge with or into (whether or not such Restricted Subsidiary is the surviving Person), another Person (other than the Company) whether or not affiliated with such Restricted Subsidiary unless:
 
 
 
 
In the event of:
 
 
41
 
 
then such Restricted Subsidiary (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of such a merger, consolidation (or amalgamation) or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Restricted Subsidiary or in the event of the designation of such Restricted Subsidiary as an Unrestricted Subsidiary) or the Person acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of such Restricted Subsidiary) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee, provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 4.17 of the Indenture.
 
(h)
 
Designation of Unrestricted Subsidiaries
.
 
4.15.
Designation of Unrestricted Subsidiaries
. The Board of Directors may designate any Subsidiary (including any Restricted Subsidiary or any newly acquired or newly formed Subsidiary) to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary so long as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not designate as an Unrestricted Subsidiary any Subsidiary which, on the 1999 Indenture Date, was a Significant Subsidiary, and may not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets of any such Significant Subsidiary to an Unrestricted Subsidiary, other than in the ordinary course of business, in each case other than Iron Mountain Global, Inc. and its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, Iron Mountain Europe Limited and its Subsidiaries). For the avoidance of doubt,
the provisions of this
Section 4.15
shall not limit or
 
42
restrict the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets to any other Subsidiary, including any Unrestricted Subsidiary, to the extent such sale, transfer or other disposition is permitted by the provisions of the Indenture described under
Section 4.12 or Section 4.17.
 
The Board of Directors may designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that such designation will be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation will only be permitted if:
 
 
 
(i)
 
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
.
 
4.16.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
. The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction unless:
 
 
 
(j)
 
Asset Sales
.
 
4.17.
Asset Sales
. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to:
 
 
 
that in the case of either clause (1) or (2) above, whether in a single transaction or a series of related transactions:
 
(i)
  
   
have a fair market value in excess of $2.0 million; or
 
(ii)
  
   
result in Net Proceeds in excess of $2.0 million (each of the foregoing, an Asset Sale) unless (x) the Company (or the Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be) receives consideration at the time of such Asset Sale at least equal to the fair market value (evidenced by an Officers Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and
 
43
for Asset Sales having a fair market value or resulting in Net Proceeds in excess of $10.0 million, evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors set forth in an Officers Certificate delivered to the Trustee) of the assets sold or otherwise disposed of and (y) at least 75% of the consideration therefor received by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash or like-kind assets (in each case as determined in good faith by the Company, evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors and certified by an Officers Certificate delivered to the Trustee);
 
provided
,
however
, that the amount of:
 
 
 
shall be deemed to be cash for purposes of this provision; and provided, further, that the 75% limitation
referred to in the foregoing clause (ii) (y) shall not apply to any Asset Sale in which the cash portion of the consideration received therefrom is equal to or greater than what the after-tax proceeds would have been had such Asset Sale complied with the aforementioned
75% limitation. For the avoidance of doubt, a disposition that constitutes a Restricted Payment will be governed by the provisions of
Section
4.8 and not by this
Section
4.17.
 
A transfer of assets or issuance of Equity Interests by the Company to a Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary or by a Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or to another Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary will not be deemed to be an Asset Sale.
 
Within 360 days of any Asset Sale, the Company may, at its option, apply an amount equal to the Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale either:
 
 
 
Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company may temporarily reduce Senior Bank Debt or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by the Indenture. Any Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale that are not applied or invested as provided in the first sentence of this paragraph will be deemed to constitute Excess Proceeds. When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $10.0 million, the Company shall make an offer to all Holders of the Notes, all holders of the 8% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 6% Notes, the 8% Notes, the 8% Notes and the 6% Notes, and the holders of any future Indebtedness ranking
pari passu
with the Notes, which Indebtedness contains similar provisions requiring the Company to repurchase such
 
44
Indebtedness (an Asset Sale Offer), to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds, at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Notes and other
pari passu
Indebtedness (including the 8% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 6% Notes, the 8 % Notes, the 8% Notes and the 6% Notes) tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company may use any remaining Excess Proceeds for general corporate purposes. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee shall select the Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Upon completion of such offer to purchase, the amount of Excess Proceeds shall be reset at zero.
 
The Company shall
comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with each repurchase of Notes pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.17, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Asset Sale provisions of the Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
 
An Asset Sale Offer shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.10 hereof. No later than the date which is five Business Days after the date on which the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $10.0 million, the Company shall notify the Trustee of such Asset Sale Offer and provide the Trustee with an Officers Certificate setting forth the calculations used in determining the amount of Net Proceeds to be applied to the purchase of Notes. The Company shall commence or cause to be commenced the Asset Sale Offer on a date no later than 15 Business Days after such notice (the Commencement Date).
 
(k)
 
Change of Control Offer
.
 
 4.18.
 
Change of Control Offer
.
 
(a)
 
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Issuer shall repurchase all of each Holders Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the Change of Control Offer) at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of repurchase, and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any (the Change of Control Payment).
 
Within 30 calendar days following any Change of Control, the Issuer shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, stating:
 
 
 
 
45
 
 
 
 
The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to the repurchase of the Notes in connection with a Change of Control. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 4.18, the Issuer shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of the Indenture or the Sixth Supplemental Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
 
(b)
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes so accepted the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; provided that each such new Note shall be in a principal amount of
C$1,000
or an integral multiple thereof. Prior to complying with the provisions of this Section 4.18, but in any event within 90 calendar days following a Change of Control, the Company shall either repay all outstanding Senior Debt or obtain the requisite consents, if any, under all agreements governing outstanding Senior Debt to permit the repurchase of Notes required by this Section 4.18. The Company shall publicly announce in The Wall Street Journal, or if no longer published, a national newspaper of general circulation, the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
46
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party, including the Company, makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.18 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Issuer and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
 
(l)
 
Changes in Covenants When Notes Rated Investment Grade
.
 
 4.19.
 
Changes in Covenants When Notes Rated Investment Grade
.
 
If on any date following the date of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture:
 
 
 
 
 
(or, if any such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company as a replacement agency); and
 
 
then, beginning on that day and continuing at all times thereafter regardless of any subsequent changes in the rating of the Notes, Sections 3.10, 4.8, 4.9, 4.11, 4.12, 4.15 and 4.17, clause (3) of Section 4.14, clause (2) of Section 4.16 and clause (d) of Section 5.1 of the Indenture shall no longer be applicable to the Notes.
 
(m)
 
Additional Tax Amounts
.
 
 4.20.
 
Additional Tax Amounts
.
 
All payments made by or on behalf of the Issuer under or with respect to the Notes or any of the Guarantors on its guarantee shall be made free and clear of and without withholding or deduction for, or on account of, any present or future Taxes imposed or levied by or on behalf of any jurisdiction in which the Issuer or any Guarantor (including any successor entity), is then incorporated or resident for tax purposes or any political subdivision thereof or therein (for avoidance of doubt, it being understood that tax residency for these purposes does not result from mere permanent establishments) (each of the foregoing, a Tax Authority), unless the withholding or deduction of such Taxes is then required by law. If any deduction or withholding for, or on account of, any Taxes of any Tax Authority shall at any time be required to be made from or imposed directly on any Holder or beneficial owner of the Notes on any payments made by or on behalf of the Issuer under or with respect to the Notes or any of the Guarantors with respect to any guarantee, including payments of principal, redemption price, purchase price, interest, premium or Additional Interest, if any, the Issuer or the relevant Guarantor, as applicable, shall pay such additional amounts (the Additional Tax Amounts), as may be necessary in order that the net amounts received and retained in respect of such payments by each Holder or beneficial owner (including
 
47
Additional Tax Amounts) after such withholding, deduction or imposition shall equal the respective amounts which would have been received and retained in respect of such payments in the absence of such withholding, deduction or imposition;
provided
,
however
, that no Additional Tax Amounts shall be payable with respect to:
 
(a)
 
any payments on a Note in respect of Taxes which would not have been imposed but for the Holder or the beneficial owner of the Note being, or having been, a citizen or resident or national of, incorporated in, or carrying on a business in the jurisdiction in which such Taxes are imposed other than by the mere holding of such Note or enforcement of rights thereunder or the receipt of payments in respect thereof;
 
(b)
 
any Taxes that are imposed or withheld as a result of the failure of the Holder of a Note or beneficial owner of a Note to satisfy any certification, identification, information or other reporting requirement, which is required or imposed by a statute, treaty, regulation or administrative practice of the relevant taxing jurisdiction as a precondition to exemption from all or part of such Taxes;
 
(c)
 
any Note presented for payment (where Notes are in physical, certificated form and presentation is required) more than 30 days after the relevant payment is first made available for payment to the Holder (except to the extent that the Holder would have been entitled to Additional Tax Amounts had the Note been presented on the last day of such 30 day period);
 
(d)
 
any estate, inheritance, gift, sale, transfer, personal property or similar Tax or assessment;
 
(e)
 
any Taxes payable otherwise than by way of deduction or withholding;
 
(f)
 
any person who is a fiduciary or partnership or any person other than the sole beneficial owner of such payment, to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership or the beneficial owner of such payment would not have been entitled to the Additional Tax Amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been the actual holder of the Note;
 
(g)
 
any Holder of a Note or a beneficial owner of a Note that is or was a 10-percent shareholder of the Company as defined in Section 871(h)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), or any successor provision;
 
(h)
 
any Holder of a Note or a beneficial owner of a Note that is a bank receiving interest described in Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code; or
 
(i)
 
any combination of items (a) through (h) above.
 
In addition to the foregoing, the Issuer and the Guarantors shall also pay any present or future stamp, transfer, court or documentary taxes, or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies or Taxes which are levied by any Tax Authority on the execution, delivery, registration or enforcement of any of the Notes, the Indenture, any guarantee or any other document or instrument referred to therein or herein, or the receipt of any payments with respect to the Notes or the guarantees. The Issuer and the Guarantors shall not, however, be obligated to pay any present or future stamp, transfer, court or documentary tax, or any other excise or property tax, charge or similar levy or Tax which is levied by any Tax Authority in connection with any transfer of any Note by any Holder.
 
48
If the Issuer or any Guarantor, as the case may be, becomes aware that it shall be obligated to pay Additional Tax Amounts with respect to any payment under or with respect to the Notes or any guarantee, the Issuer or the relevant Guarantor, as the case may be, shall deliver to the Trustee on a date which is at least 30 days prior to the date of that payment (unless the obligation to pay Additional Tax Amounts arises after the 30th day prior to that payment date, in which case the Issuer or the relevant Guarantor shall notify the Trustee promptly thereafter) an Officers Certificate stating the fact that Additional Tax Amounts shall be payable and the amount estimated to be so payable. The Officers Certificate must also set forth any other information reasonably necessary to enable the Paying Agents to pay Additional Tax Amounts to Holders on the relevant payment date. The Issuer or the relevant Guarantor shall provide the Trustee with documentation reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee evidencing the payment of Additional Tax Amounts.
 
The Issuer or the relevant Guarantor shall make all required withholdings and deductions and shall remit the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant Tax Authority in accordance with applicable law. The Issuer or the relevant Guarantor shall use commercially reasonable efforts to facilitate administrative actions necessary to assist beneficial owners to obtain any refund of or credit against Taxes for which Additional Tax Amounts are not paid as a result of the conditions in the proviso to the first paragraph of this Section 4.20.
 
In the event that either the Issuer or the relevant Guarantor has become, or would be, obliged to pay on the next date on which any amount would be payable under or with respect to the Notes, any Additional Tax Amounts as a result of certain changes affecting the laws relating to withholding or deduction of Taxes, the Issuer may redeem all, but not less than all, the Notes in accordance with Section 3.8.
 
Whenever in the Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of amounts based upon the principal amount of the Notes or of principal, interest, Additional Interest or of any other amount payable under, or with respect to, any of the Notes, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Tax Amounts to the extent that, in such context, Additional Tax Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof.
 
(n)
 
Release of Company and Subsidiary Guarantees and Guarantors
.
 
 4.21.
 
Release of Company and Subsidiary Guarantees and Guarantors
.
 
(a) If:
 
(1) the Company sells or otherwise disposes, by way of a merger, consolidation or otherwise, all the capital stock or all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer to an unaffiliated third party,
 
(2) the Note Guarantees (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the Notes) are assumed by such third party and
 
(3) the Company elects to make an irrevocable offer for all of each Holder's notes at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of repurchase, and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any,
 
then the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will be unconditionally released and relieved of any obligations under the Note Guarantees and under the Indenture with respect to the Notes (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the Issuer will also be released and
 
49
relieved of any obligations in respect of the Notes). The Company shall not be obligated to make such offer. Any such offer, if made, will be made substantially on the terms and conditions set forth in Section 4.18 of the Indenture.
 
(b) The release of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the Issuer) will be subject to the satisfaction of the following additional conditions:
 
(1) such third party must be a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, or of Canada or any province thereof,
 
(2) such third party must have assumed all the obligations of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Note Guarantees and the Indenture with respect to the Notes (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the third party must also have assumed the obligations of the Issuer in respect of the Notes) pursuant to a supplemental indenture in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee,
 
(3) immediately after such acquisition, no Default or Event of Default exists, and
 
(4) such third party will, at the time of such acquisition and giving effect thereto, be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional indebtedness pursuant to the test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.9 of the Indenture.
 
Section 2.7.
 
.
Replacement of Certain References in the Indenture
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture shall be amended as follows:
 
(a) All references to Subsidiary Guarantee or Subsidiary Guarantees shall be replaced with references to Note Guarantee and Note Guarantees, respectively, and
 
(b) Except as otherwise provided herein, all references to the Company, the Companys and Company Order shall be replaced with references to the Issuer, the Issuers and Issuer Order, respectively, for Articles II, III and XIII and the following Sections: 4.4, 6.1(d), 6.3-6.6, 6.9, 7.1(f), 7.4, 7.7, 7.8, 8.1-8.3, 8.4(d) and (f), 8.5-8.7, 9.1, 9.2, 9.6, 10.2-10.4, 10.8, 10.12, 10.15, 10.16, 11.2, 11.3, 12.1 and 12.2.
 
Section 2.8.
 
.
Provisions Regarding Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the definition of obligor under Section 1.3 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated with the following:
 
obligor on the indenture securities means the Issuer, the Guarantors, if any, and any successor obligor upon the Securities or any Note Guarantee, as the case may be.
 
Section 2.9.
 
.
Amend, Restate and Replace Provision Regarding Payment of Principal and Interest
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Section 4.1 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
50
 4.1.
 
Payment of Principal and Interest
.
 
The Issuer covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of, interest, Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, on the Notes in accordance with the terms thereof and this Indenture. The Issuer will pay all Additional Interest, if any, in the same manner on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Section 2.10.
 
.
Provisions Regarding Successors
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Section 5.1(b) of the Indenture is hereby amended and restated in its entirety with the following:
 
(b)
 
the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Securities of a Series, the supplemental indentures applicable to such Series, the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement (pursuant to a supplemental indenture in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee);
Section 2.11.
 
.
Events of Default
 
Section 6.1 of the Indenture is amended with regard to this Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes issued hereunder (i) by deleting the $10.0 million threshold in Sections 6.1(e)(ii) and 6.1(f) and substituting in lieu thereof the threshold of $50.0 million and (ii) by deleting references to the Company in Sections 6.1(c) and 6.1(d) and replacing them with the Issuer. Section 6.1 of the Indenture is further amended with regard to this Sixth Supplemental Indenture by deleting Sections 6.1(a), 6.1(g), 6.1(h) and 6.1(i) of the Indenture and replacing them in their entirety with the following, respectively:
 
(a) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest or Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, on any Security of that Series (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of Article XIII of the Indenture);
 
(g) the Issuer, the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary:
 
(i) commences a voluntary case,
 
(ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case,
 
(iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for all or substantially all
 
of its property,
 
(iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or
 
(v) admits in writing that it generally is unable to pay its debts as the same
 
become due;
 
in each case, pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law; or
 
51
(h) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
(1)
 
is for relief against the Issuer, the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case,
 
(2)
 
appoints a Custodian of the Issuer, the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary or for all or substantially all of its property, or
 
(3)
 
orders the liquidation of Issuer, the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary,
 
and such order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days;
 
(i) except as permitted by the Indenture or the Note Guarantees, any Note Guarantee shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect, or the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or any person acting on behalf of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall deny or disaffirm in writing its obligations under its Guarantee.
 
Section 2.12.
 
.
Acceleration of Maturity
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Section 6.2 is hereby amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following
 
6.2
 
Acceleration of Maturity
:
 
If any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in clauses (g) and (h) of Section 6.1 of the Indenture relating to the Issuer, the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Issuer or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of a Series by notice to the Issuer and the Trustee may declare the unpaid principal of and any interest, Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts on all the Securities of that Series (or, if any Securities of that Series are Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities) to be due and payable immediately; provided, however, that if any Obligation with respect to Senior Bank Debt is outstanding pursuant to the Credit Agreement upon a declaration of acceleration of the Securities of a Series, the principal, premium or Additional Tax Amounts, in any and interest on such Securities will not be payable until the earlier of:
 
(a) the day which is five Business Days after written notice of acceleration is received by the Company and the Credit Agent or
 
(b) the date of acceleration of the Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. If an Event of Default specified in clauses (g) and (h) of Section 6.1 of the Indenture with respect to the Issuer, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary occurs, the principal of, and premium, Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest on all outstanding Securities of that Series will become immediately due and payable without further action or notice.
 
In the event of a declaration of acceleration of the Securities of that Series because an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of the acceleration of any Indebtedness
 
52
described in clause (e) of Section 6.1 of the Indenture, the declaration of acceleration of the Securities of that Series shall be automatically annulled if the holders of any Indebtedness described in such clause have rescinded the declaration of acceleration in respect of such Indebtedness within 30 days from the date of such declaration and if:
 
(A)
 
the annulment of the acceleration of the Securities of that Series would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a competent jurisdiction and
 
(B)
 
all existing Events of Default, except non-payment of principal or interest on the Securities of that Series that became due solely because of the acceleration of such Securities, have been cured or waived.
 
In the case of any Event of Default occurring by reason of any willful action (or inaction) taken (or not taken) by or on behalf of the Issuer or the Company with the intention of avoiding payment of any make whole price or premium, as applicable, that the Issuer or the Company would have had to pay if the Issuer or the Company then had elected to redeem the Securities of a Series pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of the Indenture, if any, the applicable make whole price, or an equivalent premium, as the case may be, shall become and be immediately due and payable to the extent permitted by law upon the acceleration of the Securities of that Series.
 
Section 2.13.
 
.
Waiver of Past Defaults
 
Section 6.13 of the Indenture is amended with regard to this Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes issued hereunder by deleting the first sentence thereof and replacing it in its entirety with the following:
 
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive any past Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest, Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts on, or the principal of, the Notes (provided, however, that the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration).
 
Section 2.14.
 
.
Legal Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
 
(a)
 
Ability to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Article VIII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Issuer shall have the option to effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance pursuant to Article VIII of the Indenture. In connection with any Covenant Defeasance, the Issuer and Company shall be released from its obligations under the covenants specified in Sections 4.2 and 5.1 of the Indenture and Section 2.6 of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture.
 
(b)
 
Amend, Restate and Replace Covenant Regarding Legal Defeasance and Discharge
.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, clause (a) of Section 8.1 is hereby amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
(a) the rights of Holders of outstanding Securities of such Series to receive solely from the trust fund described in Section 8.4 hereof, and as more fully set forth in such section, payments in
 
53
respect of the principal of, premium or Additional Interest of Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and interest on such Securities when such payments are due,
 
(c)
 
Amend, Restate and Replace Covenant Regarding Deposit
.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Sections 8.4(a), (b), (c), (g) and (h) are hereby amended, restated and replaced in their entirety by the following:
 
(a) the Issuer must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in Canadian Dollars, Canadian Government Obligations, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, premium, Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and interest on the outstanding Securities of such Series on the Stated Maturity or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be, of such principal or installment of principal of, premium or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, or interest on the outstanding Securities of such Series.
 
(b) in the case of an election under Section 8.2 hereof, the Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States (which counsel may be an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company) reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that (A) the Issuer has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Securities of such Series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(c) in the case of an election under Section 8.3 hereof, the Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States (which counsel may be an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company) reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Securities of such Series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(g) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers Certificate stating that the deposit as not made by the Issuer with the intent of preferring the Holders of such Securities over any other creditors of the Issuer with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Issuer or others;
 
(h) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers Certificate and an opinion of counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with; and
 
(d)
 
Delivery of an Opinion of Canadian Counsel
.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the following is hereby added to Section 8.4(i):
 
(i) the Issuer shall have delivered to the Trustee an opinion of counsel in Canada reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of such Securities will be subject to
 
54
Canadian federal income tax on the same amounts and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance had not occurred.
 
Section 2.15.
 
.
Subordination
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Article XIII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Notes shall be subject to subordination pursuant to Article XIII of the Indenture.
 
Section 2.16.
 
.
Amend, Restate and Replace Provision Regarding Amendment with the Consent of the Holders of the Notes
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Section 9.2 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
 9.2.
 
With Consent of Holders
.
 
Except as provided in Sections 9.1 and 9.3 of the Indenture, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented by the Company and the Trustee after having received the Required Consent (as defined below), and, except as provided in Sections 6.8 and 6.12 of the Indenture, any existing Default or Event of Default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes may be waived by the Trustee upon receipt by the Trustee of the Required Consent.
 
The term Required Consent means
the consent of:
 
(a)
Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of the Notes (with respect to matters requiring only the consent of such Holders); or
 
(b) holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of:
 
(i) the Notes,
 
(ii) the 8 5/8
% Notes, the 7 3/4
% Notes, the 7 1/4
% Notes, the 6 5/8
% Notes, the 8 3/4
% Notes, the 8% Notes and the 6 3/4
% Notes, (the Previously Issued Notes), if the holders of the Previously Issued Notes are being requested to consent to such action with respect to the terms of the Previously Issued Notes or the indentures under which the Previously Issued Notes were issued, and
 
(iii) any other issue or series of notes issued or guaranteed by the Company that rank
pari passu
with the Company Guarantee, if such notes or guarantee or the indenture pursuant to which such notes were issued both (x) require the consent of the holders of such notes to such action, and (y) provide that the such holders will vote with the Holders of the Notes and the other securities referenced above with respect to such action.
 
Section 2.17.
 
.
Amend, Restate and Replace Provision Regarding Limitations on Amendment or Waiver
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Sections 9.3(d), (f) and (h) of the Indenture are amended, restated and replaced in their entirety by the following:
 
(d) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, on any Security (except a rescission of acceleration of the
 
55
Securities of any Series by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of such Series and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration);
 
(f) make any change in the provisions of the Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of Securities of any Series to receive payments of principal of or premium, if any, or interest or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, on the Securities;
 
(h) except pursuant to the Indenture, release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Note Guarantees, or change the Note Guarantees in any manner that would materially adversely affect the Securityholders; or
 
Section 2.18.
 
.
Amend, Restate and Replace Provision Regarding Personal Liability
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Section 10.8 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
 10.8.
 
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders
.
 
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Issuer, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Issuer, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary under the Securities of any Series, Note Guarantees or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Securities of any Series, by accepting a Security and the related Note Guarantees, waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Series of Securities and the Note Guarantees.
Section 2.19.
 
.
Note Guarantees
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Article XII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Notes shall constitute a Series to be guaranteed by the Guarantors pursuant to Article XII of the Indenture.
 
Section 2.20.
 
.
Provisions Regarding Subsidiary Guarantees and Limitation of Guarantors Liability
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the first clause of the first paragraph of Section 12.1 of the Indenture is replaced with the following:
 
The Company and each Subsidiary that is a signatory hereto, as a Guarantor and each Subsidiary of the Company that in accordance with the terms of any Securities of a Series issued hereunder pursuant to any supplemental indenture relating to such Securities becomes party to this Indenture as a guarantor (each a 
Guarantor
),
 
Section 2.21.
 
.
Provisions Regarding Agreement to Subordinate
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Section 13.1 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
 13.1.
 
Agreement to Subordinate
.
 
56
The Issuer, the Trustee and each Securityholder by accepting a Security agrees, that the indebtedness and obligations evidenced by the Security are subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in this Article, to the prior payment in full, in cash of all Obligations with respect to Senior Debt of the Issuer (whether outstanding on the date hereof or hereafter created, incurred, assumed or guaranteed), and that the subordination is for the benefit of the holders of Senior Debt of the Issuer.
 
Section 2.22.
 
.
Provisions Regarding Subordination of Note Guarantees
 
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, Section 13.14 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
 13.14.
Subordination of Note Guarantees
.
 
Each Guarantor, the Trustee, and each Securityholder by accepting a Security agrees, that the indebtedness and obligations under the Note Guarantees (a) rank
pari passu
with such Guarantors obligations (whether as issuer or guarantor) with respect to the Existing Senior Subordinated Securities and (b) are subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in this Article, to the prior payment in full, in cash, of all Obligations with respect to Senior Debt of such Guarantor (whether outstanding on the date hereof or hereafter created, incurred, assumed or guaranteed), and that the subordination is for the benefit of the holders of Senior Debt of such Guarantor.
 
 
 
Section 3.1.
 
Effect of Headings
.
 
The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
Section 3.2.
 
.
Successors and Assigns
 
All covenants and agreements in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the Issuer shall bind their successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 3.3.
 
.
Separability Clause
 
In case any provision in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 3.4.
 
.
Governing Law
 
This Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes created hereby shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to any conflicts of law provisions (other than Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law) that might cause this Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes to be governed by or construed or enforced in accordance with the laws of any other jurisdiction.
 
 
57
Section 3.5.
 
.
Sixth Supplement to Supersede Indenture
 
The Indenture, as supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, remains in full force and effect as of the date hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any provision of the Indenture shall conflict with any provision of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the terms of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed controlling and the conflicting provision of the Indenture shall be null and void to the extent of such conflict.
 
 
58
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Sixth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and attested, all as of the date and year first written above.
 
 
59
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
IRON MOUNTAIN NOVA SCOTIA FUNDING COMPANY
promises to pay to ___________ or registered assigns, the principal sum of _________ Canadian Dollars on March 15, 2017.
Interest Payment Dates:  March 15 and September 15
Record Dates:  March 1 and September 1
Dated:  __________, 20___
 
This is one of the Notes referred to in the within- mentioned Indenture: THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Trustee
By:  
         ______________________      
                Authorized Signatory
 
A-1
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 1.            .  Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company, a Nova Scotia unlimited liability company (the Issuer) promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 7% per annum from __________ until maturity and shall pay the Additional Interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 5 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below.  The Issuer shall pay interest and Additional Interest, if any, semi-annually in arrears, on _______ and ________ of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an Interest Payment Date).  Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be _________, 20___.  The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest to the extent allowed in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal from time to time on demand at a rate equal to the per annum rate on the Notes then in effect; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest to the extent allowed in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Additional Interest, if any (without regard to any applicable grace periods), from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
   
INTEREST
provided
provided
further
 2.            .  The Issuer will pay principal, premium, Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and interest on the Notes in Canadian dollars.  The Issuer, however, may pay principal, premium, Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and interest by check payable in such money.  It may mail an interest check to a Holders registered address.
   
METHOD OF PAYMENT
 3.            .  Initially, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as paying agent, registrar and service agent.  The Issuer has appointed BNY Trust Company of Canada as a sub-paying agent for the Notes.  The Notes may be presented for registration of transfer and exchange at the offices of the registrar.  The Issuer or Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the Company), may change any paying agent, sub-paying agent, service agent or registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
   
PAYING AGENT, REGISTRAR AND SERVICE AGENT
 4.            .  The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of December 30, 2002 (the Base Indenture), as supplemented by a Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 15, 2007 (the Sixth Supplemental Indenture and, together with the Base Indenture, the Indenture), among the Issuer, the Guarantors and the Trustee.  The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb).  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms.  To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.  The Notes issued under the Indenture are subordinated unsecured obligations
   
INDENTURE
A-2
of the Issuer limited to C$175,000,000 in aggregate principal amount, plus amounts, if any, issued to pay Additional Interest on outstanding Notes as set forth in Paragraph 20 hereof.
 5.            . 
   
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION
(a) Prior to March 15, 2012, the Notes shall be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Issuer, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the CAD Make-Whole Price, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, to but excluding the applicable redemption date.  On and after March 15, 2012, the Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Issuer, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the redemption price (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, to but excluding the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on March 15 of the years indicated below:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to March 15, 2010 the Issuer may on any one or more occasions redeem the Notes at a redemption price of 107.500% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings; that (i) at least C$115.0 million in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (including any Additional Notes) issued under the Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption (excluding Notes held the Company, and the Companys Subsidiaries) and (ii) the redemption must occur within six months of the date of the closing of any such Qualified Equity Offering.
provided
(b) The Issuer may redeem the Notes, in whole but not in part, at its discretion at any time upon giving not less than 10 nor more than 60 days prior notice to the Holders (which notice will be irrevocable and given in accordance with the procedures described in Section 10.2 of the Indenture), at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date fixed by the Issuer for redemption, (the Tax Redemption Date), and all Additional Tax Amounts (if any) then due and which will become due on the Tax Redemption Date as a result of the redemption or otherwise (and in the case of Notes that are in physical, certificated form, subject to the right of Holders on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date and Additional Tax Amounts (if any) in respect thereof), if on the next date on which any amount would be payable in respect of the Notes, the Issuer has or would be required to pay Additional Tax Amounts, and the Issuer cannot avoid any such payment obligation taking reasonable measures available, as a result of:
                        (i)            any change in, or amendment to, the laws or treaties (or any regulations, or rulings promulgated thereunder) of the relevant Tax Authority affecting Taxation which becomes effective on or after March 15, 2007 (or, if the relevant Tax Authority has changed since March 15, 2007, the date on which the then current Tax Authority became the applicable Tax Authority under the Indenture); or
                        (ii)            any change in, or amendment to, the existing official position or the introduction of an official position regarding the application, administration or interpretation of such laws, treaties,
A-3
regulations or rulings (including a holding, judgment or order by a court of competent jurisdiction or a change in published practice), and becomes effective on or after March 15, 2007 (or, if the relevant Tax Authority has changed since March 15, 2007, the date on which the then current Tax Authority became the applicable Tax Authority under the Indenture).
The Issuer will not give any such notice of redemption earlier than 90 days prior to the earliest date on which the Issuer would be obligated to make such payment or withholding if a payment in respect of the Notes were then due.  Prior to the publication or, where relevant, mailing of any notice of redemption of the Notes pursuant to the foregoing, the Issuer will deliver to the Trustee (a) an Officers Certificate to the effect that the Issuer cannot avoid such obligation to pay Additional Tax Amounts by taking reasonable measures available to it and (b) an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Issuer will be obligated to pay Additional Tax Amounts as a result of an event described above.
 6.            .  The Issuer and the Guarantors will pay to the Holders of the Notes any Additional Tax Amounts as may become payable under Section 4.20 of the Indenture.
   
ADDITIONAL TAX AMOUNTS
 7.            .  Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 10 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed at its registered address.  For Notes which are represented by global certificates held on behalf of the Depository, notices may be given by delivery of the relevant notices to the Depository for communication to entitled account holders in substitution for the aforesaid publication.  The Notes in denominations larger than C$1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of C$1,000, unless all the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.  In the event of a redemption of less than all of the Notes, the Notes will be chosen for redemption by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture.  On and after the redemption date, interest ceases to accrue on the Notes or portions of them called for redemption.
   
NOTICE OF REDEMPTION
 If this Note is redeemed subsequent to a Record Date with respect to any Interest Payment Date specified above and on or prior to such Interest Payment Date, then any accrued interest will be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on such Record Date.
   
 8.            .  Except as set forth in paragraph 9 below, the Issuer shall not be required to repurchase or to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.  There are no sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
   
MANDATORY REDEMPTION
 9.            .  This Note is subject to purchase at the option of the Holder upon the circumstances set forth in Sections 3.10, 4.17 and 4.18 of the Indenture.
   
REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDER
 10.            .  The payment of the principal of, interest on, and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts or any other amounts due on the Notes is subordinated in right of payment to all existing and future Senior Debt of the Issuer and the Company, as described in the Indenture.  Each Holder, by accepting a Note, agrees to such subordination and authorizes and directs the Trustee on its behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination so provided and appoints the Trustee as its attorney-in-fact for such purpose.
   
SUBORDINATION
 11.            .  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of C$1,000 and integral multiples of C$1,000 in excess thereof.  The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.  The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.  The Issuer need not exchange or register the
   
DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE
A-4
transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.  Also, the Issuer need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
 12.            .  The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
   
PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS
 13.            .  Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of, and any existing default or event of default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes may be waived with the consent of: (A) Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of the Notes (with respect to matters requiring only the consent of such Holders) or (B) holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount at stated maturity of (1) the Notes, (2) the 8 5/8% Notes, the 7 3/4% Notes, the 7 1/4% Notes, the 6 5/8% Notes, the 8 3/4% Notes, the 8% Notes and the 6 3/4% Notes (the Previously Issued Notes), if the holders of the Previously Issued Notes are being requested to consent to such action with respect to the terms of the Previously Issued Notes or the indentures under which the Previously Issued Notes were issued, and (3) any other issue or series of notes issued or guaranteed by the Company that rank with the Company Guarantee of the Notes, if such notes or guarantee the indenture pursuant to which such notes were issued both (i) require the consent of the holders of such notes to such action and (ii) provide that the such holders will vote with the Holders of the Notes and the other securities referenced above with respect to such action.  Without the consent of any Holder of the Notes, the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to, in addition to other events more fully described in the Indenture, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, provide for the assumption of the Issuers obligations to Holders of the Notes in the case of a merger or consolidation, make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder, or comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA.
   
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
pari passu
 14.            .  An Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs upon the occurrence of any of the following events: the default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes or Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts, if any (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of the Indenture); the default in payment when due of the principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of the Indenture); the failure by the Issuer to comply with Section 4.18 of the Indenture; the failure by the Issuer or any Guarantor for 60 days after written notice from the Trustee or Holders of not less than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) outstanding to comply with any of its other agreements in the Indenture, Notes, or the Note Guarantees; the default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee exists on the date of the Indenture or is created thereafter, if: (i) such default results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity or shall constitute a default in the payment of such Indebtedness at final maturity of such Indebtedness; and (ii) the principal amount of any such Indebtedness that has been accelerated or not paid at maturity, when added to the aggregate principal amount of all other such Indebtedness that has been accelerated or not paid at maturity, exceeds $50.0 million; the failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $50.0 million, which judgments remain unpaid, undischarged or unstayed for a period of 60 days; certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary; or except as permitted by the Indenture, the Note Guarantees, any Note Guarantee issued by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary shall be held in any
   
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
A-5
judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect, or the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or any Person acting on behalf of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall deny or disaffirm in writing its obligations under its Note Guarantee.
 If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately; , , that if any Obligation with respect to Senior Bank Debt is outstanding pursuant to the Credit Agreement upon a declaration of acceleration of the Notes, the principal, premium or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and interest on the Notes will not be payable until the earlier of: (1) the day which is five business days after written notice of acceleration is received by the Issuer and the Credit Agent; or (2) the date of acceleration of the Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary, the principal of, and premium and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest on all outstanding Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice.  In the event of a declaration of acceleration of the Notes because an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of the acceleration of any Indebtedness described in Section 6.1(e) of the Indenture, the declaration of acceleration of the Notes shall be automatically annulled if the holders of any Indebtedness described in such section have rescinded the declaration of acceleration in respect of such Indebtedness within 30 days from the date of such declaration and if: (1) the annulment of the acceleration of the Notes would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a competent jurisdiction; and (2) all existing Events of Default, except non-payment of principal or interest on the Notes that became due solely because of the acceleration of the Notes, have been cured or waived.
   
provided
however
 Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power.  The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal, interest, Additional Interest or Additional Tax Amounts if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest).  The Issuer is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Issuer is required, upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Issuer is taking or proposes to take thereto.
   
 15.           Payment of principal of, premium or Additional Tax Amounts, if any, and interest (including interest on overdue principal, if any, and interest, if lawful) on the Notes is guaranteed on an unsecured, senior subordinated basis by the Guarantors pursuant to Article XII of the Indenture.
   
THE NOTE GUARANTEES.
 16.              If (1) the Company sells or otherwise disposes, by way of a merger, consolidation or otherwise, all the capital stock or all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer to an unaffiliated third party, (2) the Note Guarantees (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the Notes) are assumed by such third party and (3) the Company elects to make an irrevocable offer for all of each Holder's notes at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of repurchase, and Additional Interest and Additional Tax Amounts, if any, then the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will be unconditionally released and relieved of any obligations under the Note Guarantees and the Indenture with respect to the Notes (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the Issuer will also be released and relieved of any obligations in respect of the Notes). The Company shall not be obligated to make such offer. Any such offer, if made, will be made substantially on the terms and conditions applicable to an offer under Section 4.18 of the Indenture.
   
RELEASE OF GUARANTEES AND GUARANTORS.
A-6
                        The release of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the Issuer) will be subject to the satisfaction of the following additional conditions: (a) such third party must be a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, or of Canada or any province thereof, (b) such third party must have assumed all the obligations of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors under the Note Guarantees and the Indenture with respect to the Notes (and, in the case of the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer, the third party must also have assumed the obligations of the Issuer in respect of the Notes) pursuant to a supplemental indenture in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, (c) immediately after such acquisition, no Default or Event of Default exists, and (d) such third party will, at the time of such acquisition and giving effect thereto, be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional indebtedness pursuant to the test set forth in the first paragraph of Section 4.9 of the Indenture.
 
 17.            .  The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuer or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
   
TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH ISSUER
 18.            .  No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, as such, of the Issuer or any Guarantor shall have any liability for any obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantor under the Notes, the Note Guarantees or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  Each Holder by accepting a Note and the related Note Guarantees waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
   
NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS
 19.            .  This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
   
AUTHENTICATION
 20.            .  In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 15, 2007, among the Issuer, the Guarantors and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof or, in the case of Additional Notes, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have the rights set forth in one or more registration rights agreements, if any, among the Issuer, the Guarantors and the other parties thereto, relating to rights given by the Issuer and the Guarantors to the purchasers of any Additional Notes (collectively, the ).
   
ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF HOLDERS OF RESTRICTED GLOBAL NOTES AND RESTRICTED DEFINITIVE NOTES
Registration Rights Agreement
 
 21.            .  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
   
ABBREVIATIONS
 22.            .  Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
   
CUSIP NUMBERS
A-7
The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement.  Requests may be made to:
Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company c/o Iron Mountain Incorporated 745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02111 Attention:  Chief Financial Officer
A-8
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:  (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to    (Insert assignees soc. sec. or  tax I.D. no.)
                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                       0;           
                                                                                                                                                             0;                     
                                                                                                                                                   0;                               
and irrevocably appoint to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                    
 
Date:  __________
 
Your Signature:  (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
                                                                                             
 
 
A-9
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Section 4.17 or 4.18 of the Indenture, check the box below:
        Section 4.17
o
     Section 4.18
 o
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Section 4.17 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:  $__________
 
A-10
 
 
EXHIBIT B
Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company c/o Iron Mountain Incorporated 745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02111 Attention:  Chief Financial Officer
[]
Registrar address block
Re:  Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, between Iron Mountain Incorporated and the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee (the ) (the  and, as supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2007, by and among Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company (the ), the Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, the ), and the Indenture. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Trustee
Base Indenture
Issuer
Indenture
___________________, (the ) owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $___________ in such Note[s] or interests (the ), to  ___________________________ (the ), as further specified in Annex A hereto.  In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
Transferor
Transfer
Transferee
[CHECK ALL THAT APPLY]
(1)    .  The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
(2)    .  The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a Person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
B-1
selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act and, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser).  Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Note, and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
(3)    .  The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
o
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a)         such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
o
(b)           such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof;
o
(c)           such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act;
o
(d)           such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Note or Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture, to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the IAI Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
(4)    .
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
(a)    .  (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer
o
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144
B-2
restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
(b)  .  (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S
(c)    .  (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.  Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Issuer.
 
Dated:  _______________________
 
B-3
1.           The Transferor owns and proposes to transfer the following:
(a)    a beneficial interest in the:
o
(i)     144A Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
o
(ii)      Regulation S Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
o
(iii)      IAI Global Note (CUSIP _________); or
o
(b)  a Restricted Definitive Note.
o
2.           After the Transfer the Transferee will hold:
(a)    a beneficial interest in the:
o
(i)         144A Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
o
(ii)        Regulation S Global Note (CUSIP _________), or
o
(iii)        IAI Global Note (CUSIP _________); or
o
(iv)        Unrestricted Global Note (CUSIP _________); or
o
(b)   a Restricted Definitive Note; or
o
(c)    an Unrestricted Definitive Note,
o
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
B-4
 
EXHIBIT C
Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company c/o Iron Mountain Incorporated 745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02111 Attention:  Chief Financial Officer
 []
Registrar address block
Re:  Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017
(CUSIP ____________)
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, between Iron Mountain Incorporated and the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee (the ) (the  and as supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2007, by and among Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company (the ), the Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee (the )) and the Indenture. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Trustee
Base Indenture
Issuer
Indenture
__________________________, (the ) owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $____________ in such Note[s] or interests (the ).  In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
Owner
Exchange
1.           
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(a)    .  In connection with the Exchange of the Owners beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
(b)  .  In connection with the Exchange of the Owners beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
C-1
(c)    .  In connection with the Owners Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
(d)    .  In connection with the Owners Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
2.           
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(a)      In connection with the Exchange of the Owners beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer.  Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note.
(b)    .  In connection with the Exchange of the Owners Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] o 144A Global Note, o Regulation S Global Note,  o IAI Global Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owners own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.  Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Issuer.
C-2
 
 
Dated:  ______________________
C-3
 
EXHIBIT D
Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company c/o Iron Mountain Incorporated 745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02111 Attention:  Chief Financial Officer
 []
Registrar address block
Re:  Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017
Reference is hereby made to the Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, between Iron Mountain Incorporated and the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee (the ) (the  and as supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2007, by and among Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company (the ), the Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee (the )) and the Indenture. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Trustee
Base Indenture
Issuer
Indenture
In connection with our proposed purchase of $____________ aggregate principal amount of:
(a)    a beneficial interest in a Global Note, or
o
(b)    a Definitive Note,
o
we confirm that:
1.           We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ).
Securities Act
2.           We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence.  We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (A) to the Issuer or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a qualified institutional buyer (as defined therein), (C) to an institutional accredited investor (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Issuer a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any Person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
D-1
3.           We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Issuer such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Issuer may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions.  We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
4.           We are an institutional accredited investor (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5.           We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional accredited investor) as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
You and the Issuer are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
Dated:  _______________________
D-2
EXHIBIT E
Supplemental Indenture (this ), dated as of ________________, 20__, among _______________ (the ), a subsidiary of Iron Mountain Incorporated (or its successor), a Delaware corporation (the ), Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company (or its successor), a Nova Scotia unlimited liability company, and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the ).
Supplemental Indenture
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, as supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2007 (the indenture, as so supplemented, the ) providing for the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of up to C$175,000,000 of 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 (the );
Indenture
Notes
WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Issuers obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
1.              Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
CAPITALIZED TERMS.
2.            .  The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees that its obligations to the Holder and the Trustee pursuant to this Subsidiary Guarantee shall be as expressly set forth in Article XII of the Indenture and in such other provisions of the Indenture as are applicable to the Guarantors (including, without limitation, Article XIII of the Indenture), and reference is made to the Indenture for the precise terms of this Supplemental Indenture.  The terms of Article XII of the Indenture and such other provisions of the Indenture (including, without limitation, Article XIII of the Indenture) as are applicable to the Guarantors are incorporated herein by reference.
AGREEMENT TO GUARANTEE
3.            .
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES
(a)         If an Officer whose signature is on this Supplemental Indenture no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Subsidiary Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
(b)         The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof under the Indenture, shall constitute due delivery of the Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in this Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary.
E-1
4.           .  No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Issuer or any Guarantor (including the Guaranteeing Subsidiary) under the Notes, any Subsidiary Guarantee, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation.  Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. 
NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS
5.             THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN.
6.            .  The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture.  Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
COUNTERPARTS
7.            .  The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
EFFECT OF HEADINGS
8.           .  The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Issuer.
THE TRUSTEE
E-2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
Dated:  _______________, 20___
[
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
This
Registration Rights Agreement (this 
Agreement
) is made and entered into as of
March
15, 2007
, by and among
Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company
(the 
Company
)
, a
Nova Scotia
unlimited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of
Iron Mountain Incorporated
, each of the guarantors listed on
Schedule
I
hereto (the 
Guarantors
)
and each of the initial purchasers listed on Schedule
II
hereto (collectively, the 
Initial Purchasers
). The
Initial Purchasers
have agreed to purchase the
Companys 7% Senior Notes
due 2017 (the 
Notes
) pursuant to the
Purchase Agreement
(as defined below).
 
This
Agreement
is made pursuant to the
Purchase Agreement
, dated
March
9, 2007
, (the 
Purchase Agreement
), by and among the Company, the
Guarantors
and the
Initial Purchasers
. In order to induce the
Initial Purchasers
to purchase the
Notes
, the Company and the
Guarantors
have agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this
Agreement
. The execution and delivery of this
Agreement
is a condition to the obligations of the
Initial Purchasers
set forth in Section 
8(q)
of the
Purchase Agreement
. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning assigned to them in the indenture dated as of
December
30, 2002
(the 
Base Indenture
), as supplemented by a sixth supplemental indenture (the 
Sixth Supplemental Indenture
 and, together with the
Base Indenture
, the 
Indenture
), dated
March
15, 2007
, by and among the Company, the
Guarantors and
The
Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
, as
trustee
(the 
Trustee
), relating to the
Notes
and the
Exchange Notes
(as defined below).
 
The
parties hereby agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS
 
As
used in this
Agreement
, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
 
Affiliate
: As defined in
Rule 144
of the
Securities Act
.
 
Broker
-Dealer
: Any broker or dealer registered under the
Exchange Act
.
 
Closing
Date
: The date hereof.
 
Commission
: The
United States Securities and Exchange Commission
.
 
Consummate
: An
Exchange Offer
shall be deemed Consummated for purposes of this
Agreement
upon the occurrence of
(a)
the filing and effectiveness under the
Securities Act
of the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
relating to the
Exchange Notes
to be issued in the
Exchange Offer
,
(b)
the maintenance of such
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
continuously effective and the keeping of the
Exchange Offer
open for a period not less than the period required pursuant to Section
3(b)
hereof and
(c)
the delivery by the Company to the Registrar under the
Indenture of Exchange Notes
in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of
Notes
properly tendered and not subsequently withdrawn by
Holders
thereof pursuant to the
Exchange Offer
.
 
Consummation
Deadline
: As defined in Section
3(b)
hereof.
 
 
Effectiveness
Deadline
: As defined in Sections
3(a)
and 4(a) hereof.
 
Exchange
Act
: The
United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934
, as amended.
 
Exchange
Notes
: The
Companys 7% Senior Notes
due 2017 and the related guarantees to be issued pursuant to the
Indenture
:
(i)
in the
Exchange Offer
or
(ii)
as contemplated by Section
4
hereof.
 
Exchange
Offer
: The exchange and issuance by the Company of a principal amount of
Exchange Notes
(which shall be registered pursuant to the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
) equal to the outstanding principal amount of
Notes
that are properly tendered and not subsequently withdrawn by such
Holders
in connection with such exchange and issuance, and evidencing the same continuing
Indebtedness
.
 
Exchange
Offer
Registration Statement
: The
Registration Statement
relating to the
Exchange Offer
, including the related
Prospectus
.
 
Filing
Deadline
: As defined in Sections
3(a)
and 4(a) hereof.
 
Holders
: As defined in Section
2
hereof.
 
Prospectus
: The prospectus included in a
Registration Statement
at the time such
Registration Statement
is declared effective, as amended or supplemented by any
prospectus
supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such
Prospectus
.
 
Recommencement
Date
: As defined in Section
6(d)
hereof.
 
Registration
Default
: As defined in Section
5(a)
hereof.
 
Registration
Statement
: Any registration statement of the Company and the
Guarantors
relating to
(a)
an offering of
Exchange Notes
pursuant to an
Exchange Offer
or
(b)
the registration for resale of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
pursuant to the
Shelf
Registration Statement
, in each case,
(i)
that is filed pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement
and
(ii)
including the
Prospectus
included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
 
Regulation
S
:
Regulation S
promulgated under the
Securities Act
.
 
Rule
144
: Rule 144 promulgated under the
Securities Act
.
 
Securities
Act
: The
United States Securities Act of 1933
, as amended.
 
Shelf
Registration Statement
: As defined in Section
4
hereof.
 
Suspension
Notice
: As defined in Section
6(d)
hereof.
 
TIA
: The
Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (
15 U.S.C.
Section
77aaa-77bbbb)
as in effect on the date of the
Indenture
.
 
 
2
Transfer
-Restricted Securities
: Each
(A)
Note
, until the earliest to occur of
(i)
the date on which such
Note
is exchanged in the
Exchange Offer
for an
Exchange Note
by a person other than a Broker-Dealer,
(ii)
the date on which such
Note
has been disposed of in accordance with a
Shelf
Registration Statement
or
(iii) 
the date on which such
Note
is distributed to the public pursuant to
Rule 144
under the
Securities Act
and each
(B)
Exchange Note
held by a
Broker-Dealer
until the date on which such
Exchange Note
is disposed of by a
Broker-Dealer
to a Purchaser who receives from such Broker-Dealer a copy of the
Prospectus
contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
SECTION 2. HOLDERS
 
A
Person is deemed to be a holder of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
(each, a 
Holder
) whenever such Person owns
Transfer-Restricted Securities
.
 
SECTION 3. REGISTERED
EXCHANGE OFFER
 
(a) Unless the
Exchange Offer
shall not be permitted by applicable law (after the procedures set forth in Section
6(a)(i)
below have been complied with) or
Commission
policy, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall
(i)
cause the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
to be filed with the
Commission
on or prior to 90 days (or if such 90th day is not a business day, then the next succeeding business day) after the
Closing Date
(such day being the 
Filing Deadline
);
(ii)
use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
to be declared effective by the
Commission
on or prior to 180 days (or if such 180th day is not a business day, then the next succeeding business day) after the
Closing Date
(such day being the 
Effectiveness Deadline
);
(iii)
in connection with the foregoing,
(A)
file all pre-effective amendments to such
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
as may be reasonably necessary in order to cause the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
to be declared effective,
(B)
file, if applicable, a post-effective amendment to such Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
pursuant to
Rule 430A
under the
Securities Act
and
(C)
cause all reasonably necessary filings, if any, in connection with the registration and qualification of the
Exchange Notes
to be made under the Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as are necessary to permit
Consummation
of the
Exchange Offer
;
provided
that the Company and the
Guarantors
shall not be required to qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject; and
(iv)
as soon as practicable following the effectiveness of such
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
, commence and
Consummate
the
Exchange Offer
. The
Exchange Offer
shall be on the appropriate form permitting
(i)
registration of the
Exchange Notes
to be offered in exchange for the
Notes
that are
Transfer-Restricted Securities
and
(ii)
resales of
Exchange Notes
by
Broker-Dealers
that tendered into the
Exchange Offer
Notes
that such
Broker-Dealer
acquired for its own account as a result of market making activities or other trading activities (other than
Notes
acquired directly from the Company or any of its Affiliates) as contemplated by Section
3(c)
below.
 
(b) The Company and the
Guarantors
shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to
 
cause the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
to be effective continuously, and shall keep the
Exchange Offer
open for a period of not less than the minimum period required under applicable federal and state securities laws to
Consummate
the
Exchange Offer
;
provided, however,
that in
 
3
no event shall such period be less than 20 business days. The Company and the
Guarantors
shall cause the
Exchange Offer
to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the
Exchange Notes
shall be included in the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
.
The Company and the
Guarantors
shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to
cause the
Exchange Offer
to be
Consummated
on the earliest practicable date after the
Exchange
Offer
Registration Statement
has become effective, but in no event later than 45 business days thereafter, or longer, if required by the federal securities laws (the last day of such period being the 
Consummation Deadline
).
 
(c) The Company shall include a 
Plan of Distribution
 section in the
Prospectus
contained in the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
and indicate therein that any
Broker-Dealer
who holds
Transfer-Restricted Securities
that were acquired for the account of such
Broker-Dealer
as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than
Notes
acquired directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company), may exchange such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
pursuant to the
Exchange Offer
. Such 
Plan of Distribution
 section shall also contain all other information with respect to such sales by such
Broker-Dealers
that the
Commission
may require in order to permit such sales pursuant thereto, but such 
Plan of Distribution
 shall not name any such
Broker-Dealer
or disclose the amount of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
held by any such
Broker-Dealer
, except to the extent required by the
Commission
as a result of a change in policy, rules or regulations after the date of this
Agreement
.
 
Because
such
Broker-Dealer
may be deemed to be an 
underwriter
 within the meaning of the
Securities Act
and must, therefore, deliver a
prospectus
meeting the requirements of the
Securities Act
in connection with its initial sale of any
Exchange Notes
received by such
Broker-Dealer
in the
Exchange Offer
, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall permit the use of the
Prospectus
contained in the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
by such
Broker-Dealer
to satisfy such
prospectus
delivery requirement. To the extent necessary to ensure that the
prospectus
contained in the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
is available for sales of
Exchange Notes
by
Broker-Dealers
,
the Company and the
Guarantors
agree to use all commercially reasonable efforts to
keep the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
continuously effective, supplemented, amended and current as required by and subject to the provisions of Section
6(a)
and
(c)
hereof and in conformity with
the requirements of this
Agreement
, the
Securities Act
and the policies, rules and regulations of the
Commission
as announced from time to time, for a period of 180 days from the
Consummation Deadline
or such shorter period as will terminate when all
Transfer-Restricted Securities
covered by such
Registration Statement
have been sold pursuant thereto. The Company and the
Guarantors
shall provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such
Prospectus
to such
Broker-Dealers
, as soon as reasonably possible upon request, and in no event later than two business days after such request, at any time during such period.
 
SECTION 4. SHELF REGISTRATION
 
(a)
Shelf Registration
. If
(i)
the Company and the
Guarantors
are not
(A)
required to file the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
or
(B)
permitted to
Consummate
the
Exchange Offer
because the
Exchange Offer
is not permitted by applicable law (after the Company and the
Guarantors
have complied with the procedures set forth in Section
6(a)(i)
below) or
Commission
 
4
policy or
(ii)
if any
Holder
of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
shall notify the Company within 20 business days following the consummation of the
Exchange Offer
that
(A)
such
Holder
was prohibited by law or
Commission
policy from participating in the
Exchange Offer
;
(B)
such
Holder
may not resell the
Exchange Notes
acquired by it in the
Exchange Offer
to the public without delivering a
prospectus
and the
Prospectus
contained in the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
is not appropriate or available for such resales by such
Holder
; or
(C)
such
Holder
is a
Broker-Dealer
and holds
Notes
acquired directly from the Company or any of its Affiliates, then
the Company and the
Guarantors
shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to
file with the
Commission
a
Shelf
Registration Statement
(as defined below) to cover resales of the
Notes
by
Holders
of the
Notes
who satisfy certain conditions relating to the provision of information in connection with the
Shelf
Registration Statement
. If obligated to file a
Shelf
Registration Statement
, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall:
 
(x)
file, on or prior to 90 days after the earlier of
(i)
the date on which the Company determines that the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
cannot be filed as a result of clause
(a)(i)
above and
(ii)
the date on which the Company receives the notice specified in clause
(a)(ii)
above (such earlier date, the 
Filing Deadline
), a
shelf registration statement
pursuant to Rule 415 under the
Securities Act
(which may be an amendment to the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
(the 
Shelf
Registration Statement
))
, relating to all
Transfer-Restricted Securities
held by
Holders
who have provided the information required by Section
4(b)
hereof, and
 
(y)
use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such
Shelf
Registration Statement
to be declared effective by the
Commission
on or prior to 180 days after such
Shelf
Registration Statement
is filed (such day, the 
Effectiveness Deadline
).
 
If
, after the Company and the
Guarantors
have filed an
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
that satisfies the requirements of Section
3(a)
above, the Company and the
Guarantors
are required to file and make effective a
Shelf
Registration Statement
solely because the
Exchange Offer
is not permitted under applicable federal law (i.e., clause
(a)(i)
above), then the filing of the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of clause
(x)
above;
provided
that, in such event, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall remain obligated to meet the
Effectiveness Deadline
set forth in clause
(y)
.
 
To
the extent necessary to ensure that the
Shelf
Registration Statement
is available for sales of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
by the
Holders
thereof entitled to the benefit of this Section
4(a)
and the other securities required to be registered therein pursuant to Section
6(b)(ii)
hereof,
the Company and the
Guarantors
shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to
keep any
Shelf
Registration Statement
required by this Section
4(a)
continuously
effective, supplemented, amended and current as required by and subject to the provisions of Sections
6(b)
and
(c)
hereof and in conformity with the requirements of this
Agreement
, the
Securities Act
and the policies, rules and regulations of the
Commission
as announced from time to time, for a period of at least two years (as extended pursuant to Section
6(d)
hereof) following the
Closing Date
, or such shorter period as will terminate when all
Transfer-Restricted Securities
covered by such
Shelf
Registration Statement
have been sold pursuant thereto.
 
(b)
Provision by
Holders
of Certain Information in Connection with the
Shelf
Registration Statement
. No
Holder
of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
may include any of its
 
5
Transfer-Restricted Securities
in any
Shelf
Registration Statement
pursuant to this
Agreement
unless and until such
Holder
furnishes to the Company in writing, within 20 days after receipt of a request therefor, the information specified in Item 507 or Item 508 of
Regulation S
-K, as applicable, of the
Securities Act
for use in connection with any
Shelf
Registration Statement
or
Prospectus
or preliminary
Prospectus
included therein. No
Holder
of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
shall be entitled to additional interest pursuant to Section
5
hereof unless such
Holder
shall have provided all such information in the required times. Each selling
Holder
agrees to promptly furnish additional information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such
Holder
not materially misleading.
 
SECTION 5. ADDITIONAL INTEREST
 
(a)
 
If
(i)
any
Registration Statement
required by this
Agreement
is not filed with the
Commission
on or prior to the applicable
Filing Deadline
,
(ii)
any such
Registration Statement
has not been declared effective by the
Commission
on or prior to the applicable
Effectiveness Deadline
,
(iii)
the
Exchange Offer
has not been
Consummated
on or prior to the
Consummation Deadline
or
(iv)
any
Registration Statement
required by this
Agreement
is filed and declared effective but thereafter is withdrawn by the
Issuer
or becomes subject to an effective stop order issued pursuant to Section
8(d)
of the
U.S.
Securities Act
suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement (except as specifically permitted in this
Agreement
, including during any blackout period permitted hereunder without being succeeded immediately by an additional
Registration Statement
filed and declared effective within 60 days of such suspension) (each such event referred to in clauses
(i)
through
(iv)
, a
Registration Default
), then the Company and the
Guarantors
hereby jointly and severally agree to pay to each
Holder
of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
additional interest in an amount equal to a per annum rate of 0.25% on the principal amount of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
held by such
Holder
for the period of time that the
Registration Default
continues for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of such
Registration Default
.
 
The amount of the additional interest shall increase by an additional per annum rate of 0.25% with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all
Registration Defaults
have been cured, up to a maximum amount of additional interest for all
Registration Defaults
of 1.00% per annum on the outstanding principal amount of
Transfer-Restricted Securities;
provided
that the Company and the
Guarantors
shall in no event be required to pay additional interest for more than one
Registration Default
at any given time.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein,
(1)
upon filing of the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
(and/or, if applicable, the
Shelf
Registration Statement
), in the case of
(i)
above,
(2)
upon the effectiveness of the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
(and/or, if applicable, the
Shelf
Registration Statement
), in the case of
(ii)
above,
(3)
upon
Consummation
of the
Exchange Offer
, in the case of
(iii)
above, or
(4)
upon the filing of an additional
Registration Statement
that causes the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
(and/or, if applicable, the
Shelf
Registration Statement
) to again be declared effective or made usable in the case of
(iv)
above, the additional interest payable with respect to the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
as a result of such clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), as applicable, shall cease.
 
(b)
 
A
Registration Default
referred to in Section
5(a)
hereof shall be deemed not to have occurred or be continuing in relation to a
Registration Statement
or the related
prospectus
if
(i)
such
Registration Default
has occurred as a result of a material event or events relating to the Company or the
Guarantors
that the Company has determined in good faith and based on the
 
6
advice of counsel would need to be disclosed in such
Registration Statement
or the related
prospectus
and the Company determines in good faith that such disclosure would adversely affect it (or a proposed transaction it is seeking to engage in) and
(ii)
the Company has provided, or caused to be provided, written notice to the
Holders
that such an event or events have occurred and that a
Registration Default
would have occurred but for the provisions of this Section
5(b)
;
provided, however
, that in any case if such
Registration Default
occurs for a continuous period in excess of 45 days, additional interest shall be payable in accordance with this Section
5
from and including the 45th day after such
Registration Default
originally occurred.
 
(c)
 
All accrued additional interest shall be paid to the
Holders
entitled thereto, in the manner provided for the payment of interest in the
Indenture
, on each
Interest Payment Date
, as more fully set forth in the
Indenture
and the
Notes
. Notwithstanding the fact that any securities for which additional interest are due cease to be
Transfer-Restricted Securities
, all obligations of the Company and the
Guarantors
to pay additional interest with respect to securities shall survive until such time as such obligations with respect to such securities shall have been satisfied in full. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the
Indenture
to the contrary, the payment of additional interest shall be the only remedy available to holders of
Notes
for any
Registration Default
.
 
SECTION 6. REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
 
(a)
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
. In connection with the
Exchange Offer
, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall, subject to the provisions of Section
5(b)
hereof,
(x)
comply with all applicable provisions of Section
6(c)
below,
(y)
use all commercially reasonable efforts to effect such exchange and to permit the resale of
Exchange Notes
by
Broker-Dealers
that tendered in the
Exchange Offer
Notes
that such
Broker-Dealer
acquired for its own account as a result of its market making activities or other trading activities (other than
Notes
acquired directly from the Company or any of its Affiliates) being
sold
in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution
thereof, and
(z)
comply with all
of the following provisions:
 
(i) If, following the date hereof there has been announced a change in
Commission
policy with respect to exchange offers such as the
Exchange Offer
, that in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the Company raises a substantial question as to whether the
Exchange Offer
is permitted by applicable
federal law,
the Company and the
Guarantors
hereby agree to use all commercially reasonable efforts to
seek a
no-action letter or other favorable decision from the
Commission
allowing the Company and the
Guarantors
to
Consummate
an
Exchange Offer
for such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
. The Company and the
Guarantors
hereby agree to pursue the issuance of such a decision to the
Commission
staff level. In connection with the foregoing, the Company and the
Guarantors
hereby agree to take all such other commercially reasonable actions as may be requested by the
Commission
or otherwise required in connection with the issuance of such decision, including, without limitation,
(A)
participating in telephonic conferences with the
Commission
,
(B)
delivering to the
Commission
staff an analysis prepared by counsel to the Company setting forth the legal bases, if any, upon which such counsel has concluded that such an
Exchange Offer
should be permitted and
(C)
diligently pursuing a resolution (which need not be favorable) by the
Commission
staff.
 
 
7
(ii) As a condition to its participation in the
Exchange Offer
, each
Holder
of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
(including, without limitation, any
Holder
who is a
Broker-Dealer
) shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the
Consummation
of the
Exchange Offer
, a written representation to the Company and the
Guarantors
(which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
) to the effect that
(A)
it is not an Affiliate of the Company,
(B)
it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in, a distribution of the
Exchange Notes
to be issued in the
Exchange Offer
and
(C)
it is acquiring the
Exchange Notes
in its ordinary course of business. As a condition to its participation in the
Exchange Offer
, each
Holder
using the
Exchange Offer
to participate in a distribution of the
Exchange Notes
shall acknowledge and agree that, if the resales are of
Exchange Notes
obtained by such
Holder
in exchange for
Notes
acquired directly from the Company or an Affiliate thereof, it
(1)
could not, under
Commission
policy as in effect on the date of this
Agreement
, rely on the position of the
Commission
enunciated in
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
 
(available
June
5, 1991) and
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
 
(available
May
13, 1988), as interpreted in the
Commission
s letter to
Shearman & Sterling
 
dated
July
2, 1993, and similar no-action letters (including, if applicable, any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause
(i)
above), and
(2)
must comply with the registration and
prospectus
delivery requirements of the
Securities Act
in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security
holder
information required by Item
507
or
508
, as applicable, of
Regulation S
-K.
 
(iii) Prior to effectiveness of the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall provide a supplemental letter to the
Commission
(A)
stating that the Company and the
Guarantors
are registering the
Exchange Offer
in reliance on the position of the
Commission
enunciated in
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
 
(available
May
13, 1988),
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
 
(available
June
5, 1991) as interpreted in the
Commission
s letter to
Shearman & Sterling
 
dated
July
2, 1993, and, if applicable, any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause
(i)
above,
(B)
including a representation that neither the Company nor any of the
Guarantors
has entered into any arrangement or understanding with any
Person
to distribute the
Exchange Notes
to be received in the
Exchange Offer
and that, to the best of the Companys and the
Guarantors
 knowledge and belief, each
Holder
participating in the
Exchange Offer
is acquiring the
Exchange Notes
in its ordinary course of business and has no arrangement or understanding with any
Person
to participate in the distribution of the
Exchange Notes
received in the
Exchange Offer
and
(C)
including any other commercially reasonable undertaking or representation required by the
Commission
as set forth in any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause
(i)
above, if applicable.
 
(b)
Shelf
Registration Statement
. In connection with the
Shelf
Registration Statement
, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall, subject to the provisions of Section
5(b)
hereof,
 
(i)
comply with all the provisions of Section
6(c)
below and use all commercially reasonable efforts to effect such registration to permit the sale of the
Transfer-Restricted
Securities
being sold
in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution
 
8
thereof (as indicated in the information furnished to the Company pursuant to Section
4(b)
hereof), and pursuant thereto the Company and the
Guarantors
will prepare and file with the
Commission
a
Registration Statement
relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the
Securities Act
, which form shall be available for the sale of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution
thereof within the time periods and otherwise in accordance with the provisions hereof, and
 
(ii)
issue, upon the request of any
Holder
or purchaser of
Notes
covered by any
Shelf
Registration Statement
contemplated by
this
 
Agreement
,
Exchange Notes
having an aggregate principal amount equal to the
aggregate
principal amount of
Notes
sold pursuant to the
Shelf
Registration Statement
and surrendered to the Company for cancellation; the Company shall register
Exchange Notes
in the
Shelf
Registration Statement
for this purpose and issue the
Exchange Notes
to the purchaser(s) of securities subject to the
Shelf
Registration Statement
in the names as such purchaser(s) shall designate.
 
(c)
General Provisions
. In connection with any
Registration Statement
and any related
Prospectus
required by this
Agreement
, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall, subject to the provisions of Section
5(b)
hereof:
 
(i) use all commercially reasonable efforts to keep such
Registration Statement
continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements for the period specified in Section
3
or 4 of this
Agreement
, as applicable. Upon the
occurrence
of any event that would cause any such
Registration Statement
or the
Prospectus
contained therein
(A)
to contain an untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading
or
(B)
not to be effective and usable for resale of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
during the period required by this
Agreement
, the Company and the
Guarantors
 
shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to such
Registration Statement
curing such defect, and, if
Commission
review is required, use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause such amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable;
 
(ii) prepare and file with the
Commission
such amendments and post-effective amendments to the applicable
Registration Statement
as may be necessary to keep such
Registration Statement
effective for the applicable period set forth in Section
3
or 4 hereof, as the case may be; cause the
Prospectus
to be supplemented by any required
Prospectus
supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the
Securities Act
, and to comply in all material aspects fully with Rules 424, 430A and 462, as applicable, under the
Securities Act
in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the
Securities Act
with respect to the
disposition of all securities covered by such
Registration Statement
during the applicable period
in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution
by the sellers thereof set forth in such
Registration Statement
or supplement to the
Prospectus
;
 
 
9
(iii) advise each
Holder
promptly and, if requested by such
Holder
, confirm such advice in writing,
(A)
when the
Prospectus
or any
Prospectus
supplement or post-effective amendment
has been filed, and, with respect to any applicable
 
Registration Statement
or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective,
(B)
of any request by the
Commission
for amendments to the
Registration Statement
or amendments or supplements to the
Prospectus
or for additional information relating thereto,
(C)
of the issuance by the
Commission
of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the
Registration Statement
under the
Securities Act
or of the suspension by any state securities
commission
of the qualification of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes and
(D)
of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the
Registration Statement
, the
Prospectus
, any amendment or supplement thereto or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the
Registration Statement
in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the
Prospectus
in order to make the statements therein, in
the
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading
. If at any time
the
Commission
shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the
Registration Statement
, or any state securities
commission
or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
under state securities or Blue Sky laws,
the Company and the
Guarantors
shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to
obtain
the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time;
 
(iv) subject to Section
6(c)(i)
hereof, if any fact or event contemplated by Section
6(c)(iii)(D)
above shall exist or have occurred,
prepare a
supplement or post-effective amendment
to th
e
Registration Statement
or related
Prospectus
or
any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
, the
Prospectus
will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in
the
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading
;
 
(v) if requested by an
Initial Purchaser
or a
Holder
named in the
Shelf
Registration Statement
, furnish to such
Holder
in connection with such exchange or sale, if any, before filing with the
Commission
, copies of any
Registration Statement
or any
Prospectus
included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such
Registration Statement
or
Prospectus
, which documents will be subject to the review and comment of such
Holders
in connection with such sale, if any, for a period of at least three days, and the Company will not file any such
Registration Statement
or
Prospectus
or any amendment or supplement to any such
Registration Statement
or
Prospectus
to which such
Holders
shall reasonably object within three days after the receipt thereof. A
Holder
shall be deemed to have reasonably objected to such filing if such
Registration Statement
, amendment,
Prospectus
or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein
, in
light of the circumstances under
 
10
which they were made, not misleading
 
or fails to comply in all material aspects with the applicable requirements of the
Securities Act
;
 
(vi) in the case of any
Shelf
Registration Statement
, or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness, make available, at reasonable times, for inspection by each
Holder
and any attorney or accountant retained by such
Holder
, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents of the Company and the
Guarantors
reasonably requested by any such
Holder
, attorney or accountant and cause the Companys and the
Guarantors
 officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such
Holder
, attorney or accountant in connection with such
Shelf
Registration Statement
or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the
filing
thereof and prior to its effectiveness; provided, however, that any information that is designated in writing by the Company or the
Guarantors
as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by the
Holders
or any such attorney or accountant, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law;
 
(vii) if requested by any
Holders
in connection with such exchange or sale, promptly include in any
Shelf
Registration Statement
or
Prospectus
, pursuant to a
supplement or post-effective amendment
 
if necessary, such information as such
Holders
may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the 
Plan of Distribution
 of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
; and make all required filings of such
Prospectus
supplement or post-effective amendment
 
as soon as practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be included in such
Prospectus
supplement or post-effective amendment
;
 
(viii) furnish to each
Holder, upon such Holders request,
in connection with such exchange or sale, without charge, at least one copy of the
Shelf
Registration Statement
, as first filed with the
Commission
, and of each
amendment
thereto, including all documents incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits (including exhibits incorporated therein by reference); provided, however, that such information shall not be required to be so furnished if it is available through the Commissions EDGAR System;
 
(ix) deliver to each
Holder
, upon such
Holder
s request, without charge, as many copies of the
Prospectus
(including each preliminary
prospectus
) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such
Persons
reasonably may
request
; the Company and the
Guarantors
hereby consent to the use (in accordance with law) of the
Prospectus
and any amendment or supplement thereto by each selling
Holder
in connection with the offering and the sale of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
covered by the
Prospectus
or any amendment or supplement thereto;
 
(x) upon the request of any
Holder
, enter into such agreements (including underwriting agreements) and make such representations and warranties customary for offerings of such type as may be reasonably requested and take
all
such other actions in connection therewith in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
pursuant to any applicable
Shelf
Registration Statement
contemplated by this
Agreement
as may be reasonably requested by any
Holder
in
 
11
connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any applicable
Shelf
Registration Statement
. In such connection, the Company and the
Guarantors
shall:
 
(A) upon request of any
Holder
, use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be furnished, upon the effectiveness of the
Shelf
Registration Statement
:
 
(1) an opinion, dated the date of effectiveness of the
Shelf
Registration Statement
of counsel for the Company and the
Guarantors
covering matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as such
Holder
may reasonably request; and
 
(2) a customary comfort letter, dated the date of effectiveness of the
Shelf
Registration Statement
from the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters to underwriters in connection with underwritten offerings; and
 
(B) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the selling
Holders
to evidence compliance with the matters covered in clause
(A)
above and with any customary conditions contained in any agreement entered into by the Company and the
Guarantors
pursuant to this clause
(xi)
;
 
(xi) prior to any public offering of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
, cooperate with the selling
Holders
and their counsel in connection with the registration and qualification of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the selling
Holders
may reasonably request and do any and all other commercially reasonable acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
covered by the applicable
Registration Statement
, but in no event for longer than 365 days from the effective date of the
Registration Statement
;
provided, however,
that neither the Company nor any Guarantor shall be required to register or qualify as a foreign corporation where it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation, other than as to matters and transactions relating to the
Registration Statement
, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject;
 
(xii) in connection with any sale of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
that will result in such securities no longer being
Transfer-
Restricted
Securities
, reasonably cooperate with the
Holders
to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing
Transfer-Restricted Securities
to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and to register such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
in such denominations and such names as the selling
Holders
may request at least two business days prior to such sale of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
;
 
 
12
(xiii) use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the disposition of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
covered by the
Registration Statement
to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may reasonably be necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof to
consummate
 
the disposition of such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
, but in no event for longer than 365 days from the effective date of the
Registration Statement
, subject to the proviso contained in clause
(xii)
above;
 
(xiv) provide a CUSIP number for all
Transfer-Restricted Securities
not later than the effective date of a
Registration Statement
covering
such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
and provide the
Trustee
under the
Indenture
with printed certificates for the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
which are in a form eligible for deposit with CDS Clearing and Depository Services, Inc;
 
(xv) otherwise use all commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the
Commission
, and with regard to any
Shelf
Registration Statement
for which an underwriter has been engaged, use all commercially reasonable efforts to make generally available to its security
holders
, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earnings statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 under the
Securities Act
(which need not be audited)
covering a twelve-month period beginning after the effective date of the
Registration Statement
(as such term is defined in paragraph
(c)
of
Rule 158
under the
Securities Act
);
 
(xvi) cause the
Indenture
to be qualified under the
TIA
not later than the effective date of the first
Registration Statement
required by this
Agreement
and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the
Trustee
and the
Holders
 
to effect such changes to the
Indenture
as may be required for such
Indenture
to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the
TIA
; and execute and use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the
Trustee
to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the
Commission
to enable such
Indenture
to be so qualified in a timely manner; and
 
(xvii) unless otherwise
available
through the Commissions EDGAR System, provide promptly to each
Holder
, upon request, each document filed with the
Commission
pursuant to the requirements of Section
13
or Section
15(d)
of the
Exchange Act
.
 
(d)
Restrictions on
Holders
. Each
Holder
agrees by acquisition of a
Transfer-Restricted Security
that, upon receipt of the notice referred to in Section
6(c)(iii)(C)
or any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section
6(c)(iii)(D)
hereof (in each case, a 
Suspension Notice
), such
Holder
will forthwith discontinue disposition of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
pursuant to the applicable
Registration Statement
until
(i)
such
Holder
has received copies of the supplemented or amended
Prospectus
contemplated by Section
6(c)(iv)
hereof, or
(ii)
such
Holder
is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the
Prospectus
may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the
Prospectus
(in each case, the 
Recommencement Date
). Each
Holder
receiving a
Suspension Notice
hereby agrees that it will either
(i)
destroy any
Prospectuses
, other than permanent file copies, then in such
Holder
s possession which have
 
13
been replaced by the Company with more recently dated
Prospectuses
or
(ii)
deliver to the Company (at the Companys expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies, then in such
Holder
s possession of the
Prospectus
covering such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
that was current at the time of receipt of the
Suspension Notice
. The time period regarding the effectiveness of such
Registration Statement
set forth in Section
3
or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by a number of days equal to the number of days in the period from and including the date of delivery of the
Suspension Notice
to the
Recommencement Date
.
 
SECTION 7. REGISTRATION EXPENSES
 
(a) All expenses incident to the Companys and the
Guarantors
 performance of or compliance with this
Agreement
will be borne by the Company, regardless of whether a
Registration Statement
becomes effective, including without limitation:
(i)
all registration and filing fees and expenses;
(ii)
all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state Blue Sky or securities laws;
(iii)
all expenses of printing (including printing certificates for the
Exchange Notes
to be issued in the
Exchange Offer
and printing of
Prospectuses
), messenger and delivery services and telephone;
(iv)
all fees and disbursements of outside counsel for the Company and the
Guarantors
; and
(v)
fees and disbursements of the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company and the
Guarantors
(including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance).
 
The
Company will, in any event, bear its and the
Guarantors
 internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any
person
, including special experts, retained by the Company or the
Guarantors
.
 
(b) In connection with any
Registration Statement
required by this
Agreement
(including, without limitation, the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
and the
Shelf
Registration Statement
), the Company and the
Guarantors
will reimburse the
Initial Purchasers
and the
Holders
of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
who are tendering
Notes
in the
Exchange Offer
and/or selling or reselling
Notes
or
Exchange Notes
pursuant to the 
Plan of Distribution
 contained in the
Exchange Offer
Registration Statement
or the
Shelf
Registration Statement
, as applicable, for the reasonable and actual fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel, who shall be
Latham & Watkins LLP
, unless another firm shall be chosen by the
Holders
of a majority in principal amount of the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
for whose benefit such
Registration Statement
is being prepared.
 
SECTION 8. INDEMNIFICATION
 
(a) The Company and the
Guarantors
agree, jointly and severally, to indemnify and hold harmless each
Holder
, its directors, officers and each
Person
, if any, who controls such
Holder
(within the meaning of Section
15
of the
Securities Act
or Section
20
of the
Exchange Act
), from and against any
and
all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments
(
including without limitation, any legal or other expenses incurred in connection with investigating or defending any claim) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any
Registration Statement
, preliminary
prospectus
or
Prospectus
(or any amendment or supplement thereto) provided by the Company to any
Holder
or any prospective
 
14
purchaser of
Exchange Notes
or registered
Notes
, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein
, in
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading
, except insofar as
such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments
are
caused by an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission that is based upon information relating to any of the
Holders
furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of any of the
Holders
.
 
(b) Each
Holder
of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and the
Guarantors
, and their respective directors, officers, partners, employees, representatives and agents and each person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section
15
of the
Securities Act
or Section
20
of the
Exchange Act
) the Company, or the
Guarantors
to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company and the
Guarantors
set forth in section
(a)
above, but only with reference to information relating to such
Holder
furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of such
Holder
expressly for use in any
Registration Statement
or
Prospectus
(or any amendment or supplement thereto). In no event shall any
Holder
, its directors, officers or any
Person
who controls such
Holder
be liable or responsible for any amount in excess of the total amount received by such
Holder
with respect to its sale of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
or
Exchange Notes
pursuant to a
Registration Statement
.
 
(c) In case any action shall be commenced involving any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to Section
8(a)
or 8(b) (the 
indemnified party
), the
indemnified party
shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the 
indemnifying person
) in writing. In case any such action is brought against any
indemnified party
, and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein, and to the extent it may elect by written notice delivered to the
indemnified party
promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such
indemnified party
, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such
indemnified party
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
indemnified party
or parties shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of the
indemnified party
unless
(i)
the employment of such counsel shall have been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party,
(ii)
the indemnifying party shall have failed to assume the defense of such action or employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the
indemnified party
or
(iii)
the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both the
indemnified party
and the indemnifying party, and the
indemnified party
shall have been advised by such counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party (in which case the indemnifying party shall not have the right to assume the defense of such action on behalf of the
indemnified party
). In any such case, the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all indemnified parties and all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Such firm shall be designated in writing by a majority of the
Holders
, in the case of the parties indemnified pursuant to Section
8(a)
, and by the Company and the
Guarantors
, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section
8(b)
. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the
indemnified party
, effect any
 
15
settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action in respect of which the
indemnified party
is or reasonably could have been a party and indemnity or contribution may be or reasonably could have been sought hereunder by the
indemnified party
, unless such settlement, compromise or judgment
(i)
includes an unconditional release of the
indemnified party
from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action and
(ii)
does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of the
indemnified party
. No indemnifying party shall be liable for any settlement on its behalf, effectuated without its consent.
 
(d) To the extent
that the indemnification provided for in this Section
8
is unavailable to an
indemnified party
in respect of
any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments
referred to therein, then each indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such
indemnified party
, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such
indemnified party
as a result of
such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments
(i)
in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the
Guarantors
, on the one hand, and the
Holders
, on the other hand, from their sale of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
or
(ii)
if the allocation provided by clause
8(d)(i)
is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause
8(d)(i)
above but also the relative fault of the Company and the
Guarantors
, on the one hand, and of the
Holder
, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in
such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments
, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company and the
Guarantors
, on the one hand, and of the
Holder
, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the
Guarantors
, on the one hand, or by the
Holder
, on the other hand, and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of
the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and judgments
referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in the second paragraph
of Section
8(a)
, any outside legal counsel or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
 
The
Company, the
Guarantors
and each
Holder
agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section
8(d)
were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the
Holders
were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the
immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an
indemnified party
as a result of
the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments
referred to
in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any outside legal counsel or other expenses reasonably incurred by such
indemnified party
in connection with investigating or defending any matter, including any action that could have given
rise to
such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or judgments
. Notwi
thstanding the provisions of this Section
8
, no
Holder
, its directors, its officers or any
Person
, if any, who controls such
Holder
shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the total received by such
Holder
with respect to the sale of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
or
Exchange Notes
pursuant to a
Registration Statement
.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section
11(f)
of the
Securities Act
) shall be entitled to
 
16
contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The
Holders
 obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section
8(d)
are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
or
Exchange Notes
held by each
Holder
hereunder and not joint.
 
SECTION 9. RULE 144A AND RULE 144
 
The
Company and the
Guarantors
agree with each
Holder
, for so long as any
Transfer-Restricted Securities
remain outstanding and during any period in which the Company or the
Guarantors
(i)
are not subject to Section
13
or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act
, to make available, upon request of any
Holder
, to such
Holder
or beneficial owner of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
designated by such
Holder
or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the
Securities Act
in order to permit resales of such Transfer-Restricted Securities pursuant to
Rule 144A
, and
(ii)
are subject to Section
13
or 15 (d) of the
Exchange Act
, to make all filings required thereby in a timely manner in order to permit resales of such
Transfer-Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144
.
 
SECTION 10. MISCELLANEOUS
 
(a)
Remedies
. The Company acknowledges and agrees that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Sections
3
and 4 hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the
Initial Purchasers
or the
Holders
for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the
Initial Purchasers
or any
Holder
may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Companys obligations under Sections
3
and 4 hereof. The Company further agrees to waive the defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate.
 
(b)
No Inconsistent
Agreements
. Neither the Company nor any Guarantor will, on or after the date of this
Agreement
, enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the
Holders
in this
Agreement
or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. Neither the Company nor any Guarantor has previously entered into any agreement granting any registration rights with respect to its securities to any
Person
that would require such securities to be included in any
Registration Statement
filed hereunder
.
The rights granted to the
Holders
hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Companys and the
Guarantors
 securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
 
(c)
Amendments and Waivers
. The provisions of this
Agreement
may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless
(i)
in the case of Section
5
hereof and this Section
10(c)(i)
, the Company has obtained the written consent of
Holders
of all outstanding
Transfer-Restricted Securities
and
(ii)
in the case of all other provisions hereof, the Company has obtained the written consent of
Holders
of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
(excluding
Transfer-Restricted Securities
held by the Company or its Affiliates). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions
 
17
hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of
Holders
whose
Transfer-Restricted Securities
are being tendered pursuant to the
Exchange Offer
, and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other
Holders
whose
Transfer-Restricted Securities
are not being tendered pursuant to such
Exchange Offer
, may be given by the
Holders
of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
subject to such
Exchange Offer
.
 
(d)
Third Party Beneficiary
. The
Holders
shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company and the
Guarantors
, on the one hand, and the
Initial Purchasers
, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they may deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of
Holders
hereunder.
 
(e)
Notices
. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
 
(i) if to a
Holder
, at the address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the
Indenture
, with a copy to the Registrar under the
Indenture
; and
 
(ii) if to the Company or the
Guarantors
:
 
Iron Mountain Incorporated
745 Atlantic Avenue
, 10
th
Floor
Boston
,
MA
02111
Attention: Gary B. Watzke
 
with
a copy to:
 
Sullivan
& Worcester LLP
One
Post Office Square
Boston
,
MA
02109
Attention
:
William J. Curry
 
if to
Iron Mountain Statutory Trust
- 1998
or Iron Mountain Statutory Trust
- 1999, copies to:
 
US
Bank National Association
One
Federal Street
,
Third Floor
Boston
,
Massachusetts
02110
Attention
:
John G. Correia,
Vice
President
 
Gesmer
Updegrove LLP
40
Broad Street
Boston
,
Massachusetts
02111
Attention
:
Sean W. Gilligan, Esq.
 
Iron Mountain Incorporated
745 Atlantic Avenue
, 10
th
Floor
18
Boston
,
MA
02111
Attention: Gary B. Watzke
 
Sullivan & Worcester LLP
One Post Office Square
Boston
,
MA
02109
Attention:
William J. Curry
 
(iii) if to the
Initial Purchasers
:
 
Bear
,
Stearns & Co. Inc.
Scotia
Capital (USA) Inc.
Banc of America Securities LLC
J
. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Lehman
Brothers Inc.
BNY
Capital Markets, Inc.
Wells
Fargo Securities, LLC
 
c/o
Bear Stearns & Co. Inc.
 
383
Madison Avenue
 
New York
,
NY
10179
Attention.:
Corporate Finance Department
with
a copy to:
 
Latham
& Watkins LLP
885
Third Avenue, Suite 1000
New
York,
NY
10022
Attention
:
Robert A. Zuccaro
 
All
such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
 
Copies
of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the
Indenture
.
 
(f)
Successors and Assigns
. This
Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent
Holders
;
provided,
that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of
Transfer-Restricted Securities
in violation of the terms hereof or of the
Purchase Agreement
or the
Indenture
. If any transferee of any
Holder
shall acquire
Transfer-Restricted Securities
in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
shall be held subject to all of the terms of this
Agreement
, and by taking and holding such
Transfer-Restricted Securities
such
person
shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this
Agreement
, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this
 
19
Agreement
and, if applicable, the
Purchase Agreement
, and such
Person
shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
 
(g)
Guarantors
.
The Company shall cause any of its
Subsidiaries
that becomes, prior to the consummation of the
Exchange Offer
, a
Guarantor
(as defined in the
Indenture
) to become party to this
Agreement
and assume, jointly and severally with the Company and any other
Guarantors
, the continuing duties and obligations of the Company under this
Agreement
as if such
Subsidiary
was an original signatory to this
Agreement
on the date hereof.
 
(h)
Counterparts
. This
Agreement
may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
 
(i)
Headings
. The headings in this
Agreement
are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
 
(j)
Governing Law
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK
, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF
LAWS RULES
THEREOF.
 
(k)
Severability
. In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
 
(l)
Entire
Agreement
. This
Agreement
is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted with respect to the
Transfer-Restricted Securities
. This
Agreement
supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
 
 
20
 
 
 
Accepted
and agreed to as of
the
date first above written:
 
BEAR
, STEARNS & CO. INC.
 
By:
/s/ Dominick Petrosino
 Dominick Petrosino
Name:
 Senior Managing Director
Title:
 
SCOTIA
CAPITAL (USA) INC.
 
By:
/s/ Keith Rodriques
 Keith Rodriques
Name:
 Managing Director, President & COO
Title:
 
BANC
OF
AMERICA
SECURITIES LLC
 
By:
/s/ John McCusker
 John McCusker
Name:
 Managing Director
Title:
 
J
. P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
 
By:
/s/ Steven Tulip
 Steven Tulip
Name:
 Managing Director
Title:
 
LEHMAN
BROTHERS INC.
 
By:
/s/ Jean-Francois Astier
 Jean-Francois Astier
Name:
 Managing Director
Title:
 
 
BNY
CAPITAL MARKETS, INC.
 
By:
/s/ Phil Benedict
 Phil Benedict
Name:
 Vice President
Title:
 
WELLS
FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
 
By:
/s/ Paul V. Farrell
 Paul V. Farrell
Name:
 Managing Director
Title:
 
 
 
 
 
I-1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


