FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20070312163757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e- 4(c))
o
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On March 9, 2007,
Iron Mountain Incorporated (the Company)
announced
that its wholly owned subsidiary, Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company,
priced a
private placement of C$175 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7-1/2% CAD Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 (the 
7-1/2% Notes). The 7-1/2% Notes
will be sold at par
.
The
7-1/2% Notes
will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The net proceeds of the offering will be used to repay a portion of amounts outstanding under the Companys existing term loan facility. The closing of the offering is expected to occur on March 15, 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions. A
copy of our press release announcing the pricing of the
private placement
is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The
7-1/2% Notes will be sold only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and to persons outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act, including in Canada to accredited investors pursuant to National Instrument 45-106 - Prospectus and Registration Exemptions. The 7-1/2% Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, or applicable securities laws, and until so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The 7-1/2% Notes are also exempt from the prospectus requirements of applicable Canadian securities laws and may not be resold in Canada except pursuant to a further exemption therefrom.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K shall not constitute an offer to sell, nor a solicitation of an offer to buy, securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which the offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state or jurisdiction. Any offers or sales of the 7-1/2% Notes will be made only by means of a private offering memorandum.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 12, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Boston, MAMarch 9, 2007
Iron Mountain Incorporated (NYSE: IRM), the global leader in information protection and storage services, announced today that its wholly owned subsidiary, Iron Mountain Nova Scotia Funding Company, has priced a private placement of C$175 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7-1/2% CAD Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017. The notes will be sold at par. The notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Iron Mountain Incorporated (IRM) and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The net proceeds of the offering will be used to repay a portion of amounts outstanding under IRMs existing term loan facility. The closing of the offering is expected to occur on March 15, 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
The notes will be sold only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and to persons outside the United States pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act, including in Canada to accredited investors pursuant to National Instrument 45-106 - Prospectus and Registration Exemptions. The securities to be offered have not been registered under the Securities Act, or applicable securities laws, and until so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. The securities to be offered are also exempt from the prospectus requirements of applicable Canadian securities laws and may not be resold in Canada except pursuant to a further exemption therefrom.
This press release is not an offer to sell, nor a solicitation of an offer to buy, securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which the offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such state or jurisdiction. Any offers or sales of the securities will be made only by means of a private offering memorandum.
About Iron Mountain
 
Iron Mountain Incorporated (NYSE:IRM) helps organizations around the world reduce the costs and risks associated with information protection and storage. The Company offers comprehensive records management and data protection solutions, along with the expertise and experience to address complex information challenges such as rising storage costs, litigation, regulatory compliance and disaster recovery. Founded in 1951, Iron Mountain is a trusted partner to more than 90,000 corporate clients throughout North America, Europe, Latin American and Asia Pacific. For more information, visit the companys Web site at
www.ironmountain.com
.
 
 


