FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20080611165212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to siultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
m
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e- 4(c))
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Amendment to the Iron Mountain Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
 
At the annual meeting of stockholders of Iron Mountain Incorporated (the Company) held on June 5, 2008 (the Annual Meeting), the Companys stockholders approved an amendment to the Iron Mountain Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2002 Plan) increasing the number of shares of common stock of the Company authorized for issuance under the 2002 Plan to 20,028,815 and extending the termination date thereunder from March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2018.  The amendment to the 2002 Plan is set forth in Exhibit 10.1 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation.
On June 5, 2008, the Company completed its offering of $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of its 8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 (the Notes) pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in, an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of June 2, 2008, among the Company, the Guarantors named therein, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Barclays Capital Inc., Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., William Blair & Company, L.L.C., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as underwriters.  The Notes were issued under a Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, as supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture (as so supplemented, the Indenture), dated as of June 5, 2008, by and among the Company, the Guarantors named therein and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the Supplemental Indenture).   The description of the Notes in this report is a  summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Indenture and the form of note included therein, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 4.7 to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and the Supplemental Indenture  attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1, both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
The Company will pay 8% interest per annum on the principal amount of the Notes, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year.  Interest will accrue from June 5, 2008 and the first interest payment date will be December 15, 2008.  The Notes will mature on June 15, 2020, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased.
 
The Notes are guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by substantially all of the Companys direct and indirect wholly owned domestic subsidiaries. The Notes and the subsidiary guarantees rank behind all of the Companys and its subsidiary guarantors current and future senior indebtedness and equally with the Companys and its subsidiary guarantors current and future senior subordinated indebtedness and trade payables.
 
The Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the Notes at any time prior to June 15, 2013 at the make-whole price set forth in the Indenture and at any time after June 15, 2013 at the prices set forth in the Indenture.  Prior to June 15, 2011, the Company may redeem a portion of the outstanding Notes with the proceeds of certain equity offerings as long as at least
 
-2-
 
 
$195.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Notes remains outstanding immediately afterwards. If the Company sells certain assets or experiences specific kinds of changes in control, it must offer to repurchase the Notes at the prices set forth in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture provides for customary events of default which could cause, or permit, the acceleration of the Notes.  Those are similar to the events of default with respect to the Companys other publicly offered senior subordinated notes.  Under the terms of the Indenture the Company is also subject to financial covenants and restrictions which are substantially similar to those applicable to the Companys other publicly offered senior subordinated notes.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
Amendment to the Iron Mountain Incorporated 2006 Senior Executive Incentive Program
 
At the Annual Meeting, the Companys stockholders approved an amendment to the Iron Mountain Incorporated 2006 Senior Executive Incentive Program (the 2006 SEIP) to modify the definition of participant, increase the maximum compensation payable thereunder and modify and re-approve the payment criteria thereunder.  The amendment to the 2006 SEIP is set forth in Exhibit 10.2 attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The 2006 SEIP applies solely to Mr. Brennan in his capacity as the Companys Chief Executive Officer. The maximum cash bonus available to Mr. Brennan thereunder is the lesser of 1.25 times his base salary for the fiscal year or $1,500,000.   Performance goals under the 2006 SEIP are based on achievement of established objectives relating to one or more of the following business criteria: EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); OIBDA (operating income before depreciation and amortization); Contribution (gross revenues less cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization), and selling, general and administrative expenses); gross revenues; growth rate; capital spending; return on invested capital; free cash flow; operating income; attaining budget; and achievement of stated corporate goals including, but not limited to acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, international development and internal expansion. The objectives may, for example, be based on a percentage change or achievement of a stated objective. Further, the objectives may be adjusted as necessary to reflect acquisitions. One hundred percent of the annual 2006 SEIP limit may only be paid if all established objectives are fully achieved. If the objectives are not fully achieved, some lesser percentage of the annual limit, as determined in advance by the Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors (the Compensation Committee), may be paid.
 
Under the 2006 SEIP, the Compensation Committee has the right to reduce or eliminate, in its discretion, any amount payable if certain additional criteria are not satisfied. These criteria consist of the extent to which the objectives achieved satisfy the Companys short-term or long-term goals, the confidence of stockholders in the Company, as evidenced in part by the Companys stock price, the effectiveness of the Company and the wellness of the Company as a whole, taking into account, for example, labor relations and other similar matters.
 
 
 
-3-
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
Annual Meeting of Stockholders
 
In addition to the other matters disclosed herein, at the Annual Meeting, the Companys stockholders,
 
 
 
 
Notice of Redemption with respect to the 8-1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011
 
On June 5, 2008 the Company delivered a notice of redemption to the trustee with respect to its 8-1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 (the 8-1/4% Notes).  The notice of redemption provided the trustee with notice that the Company intends to redeem the remaining $71.8 million of aggregate principal amount of 8-1/4% Notes outstanding.  Upon mailing of the call notice by the trustee to holders in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the 8-1/4% Notes were issued, the 8-1/4% Notes became irrevocably due and payable on July 7, 2008 (the Redemption Date) and at the redemption price set forth in the call notice.  The 8-1/4% Notes will be redeemed with the proceeds from the sale of the Notes.  On the Redemption Date, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price, all rights of holders with respect to the 8-1/4% Notes will terminate except for the right to receive payment of the redemption price upon surrender for redemption.
The redemption of the 8-1/4% Notes will be made only by means of the call notice mailed by the trustee.  This Current Report on Form 8-K does not constitute a notice of redemption of the 8-1/4% Notes.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
-4-
-5-
 
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has uly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
   
d
 
 
 
Date: June 11, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

r
EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
                    
 
 
 
THIS SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 5, 2008 (), is by and between IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ), having its principal office at 745 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, the Guarantors signatory hereto, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the ), having its principal corporate trust office at 222 Berkeley Street, 2 Floor, Boston, MA  02116.
Seventh Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
nd
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee, as successor trustee, are parties to that certain Senior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002 (the ), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Securities to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Indenture;
Indenture
 
WHEREAS, the issuance and sale of up to $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a series of the Companys Securities (the ) have been authorized by resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on May 21, 2008 and by the unanimous written consent of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company on May 30, 2008;
Notes
 
WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue and sell $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Notes on the date hereof;
 
WHEREAS, the Company desires to enter into this Seventh Supplemental Indenture pursuant to Section 9.1(e) of the Indenture to supplement the Indenture to establish the form and terms of the Notes; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises stated herein and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto hereby enter into this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of Notes, as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.1.  
Definitions
 
(a)  All of the terms used in this Seventh Supplemental Indenture that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings specified in the Indenture, unless otherwise defined herein (in which case they shall have the meanings defined herein for the purposes of the Indenture as well as for the Seventh Supplemental Indenture) or unless the context otherwise requires, and for the purposes of this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the following terms have the meanings set forth in this Section:
 
 means, with respect to any specified Person:
Acquired Debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   means, as of any date of determination, with respect to an Acquisition EBITDA Entity, the sum of:
Acquisition EBITDA
 
 
 
 means, as of any date of determination, a business or Person:
Acquisition EBITDA Entity
 
 
 
 means such amount of the Companys 8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 (other than the Initial Notes) as the Company may issue from time to time under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof as part of the same series as the Initial Notes.
Additional Notes
 
 means, as of any date of determination and without duplication, the sum of:
Adjusted EBITDA
 
 
 
 
2
 
Subsidiary or an Acquisition EBITDA Entity occurring in any period shall be excluded in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA.
 
 means members of, or participants in, the Depository.
Agent Members
 
 in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, as of the time of determination, the greater of:
Attributable Indebtedness
 
 
(2)           the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in such transaction) of the total obligations of the lessee for rental payments during the remaining terms of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended).
 
 means:
Cash Equivalents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
 
 
 
 
3
 
or other property, other than any such transaction where (i) the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company is not converted or exchanged at all (except to the extent necessary to reflect a change in the jurisdiction of incorporation) or is converted into or exchanged for (A) Voting Stock (other than Disqualified Stock) of the surviving or transferee Person or (B) cash, securities and other property (other than Capital Stock described in the foregoing clause (A)) of the surviving or transferee Person in an amount that could be paid as a Restricted Payment pursuant to Section 2.6(a) of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture (Section 4.8 of the Indenture) and (ii) immediately after such transaction, no person or group (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than the Principal Stockholders (or any of them), is the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than a majority of the total outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving or transferee Person;
 
 
 
 means, for any period, the net income (or net loss) of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to the extent included in calculating such net income or loss by excluding:
Consolidated Adjusted Net Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 means, for any period, the provision for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Income Tax Expense
 
 means, for any period, without duplication, the sum of:
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, , that Consolidated Interest Expense will not include any gain or loss from extinguishment of debt, including write-off of debt issuance costs.
provided
however
 
 means, for any period, the aggregate depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (including without limitation any minority interest) reducing Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP (excluding any such non-cash charge to the extent that it requires an accrual of or reserve for cash charges for any future period).
Consolidated Non-Cash Charges
 
 means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, or any successor or successors party thereto.
Credit Agent
 
 means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of April 16, 2007, as amended, among the Company, the lenders party thereto and the Credit Agent, as amended, restated, supplemented, modified, renewed, refunded, increased, extended, replaced or refinanced from time to time.
Credit Agreement
 
  means Notes that are in the form of the Notes attached hereto as Exhibit A, that do not include the information called for by Section 2.15 of the Indenture.
Definitive
Notes
 
 means for any period Consolidated Adjusted Net Income for such period increased by:
EBITDA
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
Equity Interests
 
 means:
Equity Proceeds
 
 
 
 means any Restricted Subsidiary organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States (as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act) and that has not delivered a Subsidiary Guarantee.
Excluded Restricted Subsidiary
 
 means Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than under the Credit Agreement) in existence on the date of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, until such amounts are repaid.
Existing Indebtedness
 
 means a permanent global Note that contains the paragraph referred to in Section 2.15.3 of the Indenture and the additional Schedule of Exchanges of Notes to the form of the Note attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that is deposited with and registered in the name of the Depository.
Global Note
 
 means the first $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 that are issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time pursuant to the Indenture.
Initial Notes
 
 means, with respect to any Person, all investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of loans (including Guarantees), advances or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities and all other items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Investments
 
 means, at any date, the ratio of:
Leverage Ratio
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code, or equivalent statutes, of any jurisdiction).
Lien
 
means, with respect to any Note, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of:
Make-Whole Amount
 
(1) the present value of the remaining principal, premium and interest payments that would be payable with respect to such Note if such Note were redeemed on June 15, 2013, computed using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 75 basis points, over
 
(2) the outstanding principal amount of such Note.
 
means, with respect to any date of redemption of Notes, the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) from such redemption date to June 15, 2013.
Make-Whole Average Life
 
 means, with respect to any Note, the greater of:
Make-Whole Price
 
 
 
 means:
Market Price
 
 
 
The closing price for each day shall be:
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 means the aggregate cash proceeds received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale, which amount is equal to the excess, if any, of:
Net Proceeds
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Seventh Supplemental Indenture.  The Initial Notes and any Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture.
Notes
 
 means:
Permitted Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 means:
Permitted Liens
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 means each of Vincent J. Ryan, Schooner Capital LLC, C. Richard Reese, Kent P. Dauten, and their respective Affiliates.
Principal Stockholders
 
 means an offering of Capital Stock, other than Disqualified Stock, of the Company for Dollars, whether registered or exempt from registration under the Securities Act.
Qualified Equity Offering
 
 means:
Qualified Issuer
 
 
 
 
 
 means any Sale and Leaseback Transaction between the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and any bank, insurance company or other lender or investor providing for the leasing to the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary of any property (real or personal) which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such lender or investor or to any Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor and where the property in question has been constructed or acquired after the date of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture.
Qualifying Sale and Leaseback Transaction
 
 means new Indebtedness incurred or given in exchange for, or the proceeds of which are used to repay, redeem, defease, extend, refinance, renew, replace or refund, other Indebtedness; , that:
Refinancing Indebtedness
provided, however
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 means:
Restricted Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
which, in the case of (1) or (2), is not designated by the Company's Board of Directors as an "Unrestricted Subsidiary."
 means any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which a Person sells or transfers any property or asset in connection with the leasing, or the resale against installment payments, of such property or asset to the seller or transferor.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
 
 means all Obligations outstanding under or in connection with the Credit Agreement (including Guarantees of such Obligations by Subsidiaries of the Company).
Senior Bank Debt
 
 means:
Senior Debt
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, Senior Debt shall not include:
 
 
 
 
 
 means, at any time of computation, the yield to maturity at such time (as compiled by and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519), which has become publicly available at least two business days prior to the date of the redemption notice or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data) of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity most nearly equal to the Make-Whole Average Life; , that if the Make-Whole Average Life is not equal to the constant maturity of the United States Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Rate shall be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the Make-Whole
Treasury Rate
provided, however
 
 
13
 
Average Life is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used.
 
 means:
Unrestricted Subsidiary
 
 
 
 means any class or classes of Capital Stock pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of any Person (irrespective of whether or not, at the time, stock of any other class or classes has, or might have, voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
Voting Stock
 
 means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
 
 
 
 means any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company all of the outstanding Capital Stock or other ownership interests of which (other than directors qualifying shares) shall at the time be owned by the Company or by one or more Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiaries of the Company.
Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary
 
 means October 1, 1996.
1996 Indenture Date
 
 means April 26, 1999.
1999 Indenture Date
 
 means the Companys 6%Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
6% Notes
 
 
 means the Companys 6%Senior Subordinated Notes due 2016 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
6% Notes
 
 
 means the Companys 7%GBP Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
7% Notes
 
 
 means the 7% Senior Subordinated Notes of Iron Mountain Canada Corporation due 2017.
7% Notes
 
 means the Companys 7% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2015 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
7% Notes
 
 
14
 
 
 means the Companys 8%Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
8% Notes
 
 
 means the Companys 8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 issued pursuant to the Indenture.
8% Notes
 
 means the Companys Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 issued pursuant to the indenture dated April 3, 2001, by and among the Company, certain of its subsidiaries and the Trustee.
8% Notes
 
(b)  
Other Definitions
 
The definitions of the following terms may be found in the Sections indicated as follows:
 
 
 
 
Section 2.1.  
Form and Dating
 
  The Notes and the Trustees certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto.  The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage.  Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication.  The Notes shall be in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 General.
(a) 
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture, and the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture (or in the case of any Guarantor that becomes such after the date hereof, a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 2.6(g) of this Seventh Supplemental Indenture (Section 4.14 of the
 
 
15
 
Indenture)), expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.  However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture (as supplemented by this Seventh Supplemental Indenture), the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
 
Notes shall be issued initially in the form of the Global Notes, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Notes represented thereby with the Depository at its New York office, and registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided.  The aggregate principal amount of the Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depository or its nominee as hereinafter provided.
 Global Note
(b) 
s.
 
Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein, and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions.  Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Service Agent, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.4 hereof.
 
This Section 2.1(c) shall apply only to the Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of the Depository.
 Book-Entry Provisions
(c) 
.
 
The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.1(c), authenticate and deliver the Global Notes that (i) shall be registered in the name of the Depository or the nominee of the Depository and (ii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depository or pursuant to the Depositorys instructions or held by the Service Agent.
 
Agent Members shall have no rights either under the Seventh Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture with respect to any Global Notes held on their behalf by the Depository or by the Service Agent or under such Global Notes, and the Depository may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Notes for all purposes whatsoever.
 
Notes issued in certificated form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without including the text referred to in Section 2.15.3 of the Indenture).  Except as provided in Section 2.4, owners of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of certificated Securities.
 Definitive Note
(d) 
.  
 
Section 2.2.  
Execution and Authentication.
 
The Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Company signed by an Officer, authenticate up to $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes and such amount of Additional Notes as the Company may issue from time to time.
 
Section 2.3.  
Depository and Paying Agent for Notes.
 
The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company (DTC) to act as Depository with respect to the Global Notes.  The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent with respect to the Global Notes.
 
 
16
 
 
Section 2.4.  
Transfer and Exchange of Notes
.
 
The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depository, in accordance with the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture and the procedures of the Depository therefor.  Beneficial interests in the Global Notes may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Global Notes.
 Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
(a) 
.  
 
  When Definitive Notes are presented by a Holder to the Registrar with a request:
 Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes
(b) 
.
 
(x) to register the transfer of the Definitive Notes; or
 
(y) to exchange such Definitive Notes for an equal principal amount of Definitive Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transactions are met; , that the Definitive Notes presented or surrendered for register of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing.
provided, however
 
 Restrictions on Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes.
(c) 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture (other than the provisions set forth in subsection (d) of this Section 2.4), the Global Notes may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository, by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or to another nominee of the Depository, or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository.
 
 Authentication of Definitive Notes in Absence of Depository. 
(d) 
If at any time:
 
(i) the Depository for the Notes notifies the Company that the Depository is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for the Global Notes and a successor Depository for the Global Notes is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after delivery of such notice; or
 
(ii) the Company at its sole discretion, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of Definitive Notes under the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture,
 
then the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an authentication order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, authenticate and deliver, Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Notes in exchange for such Global Notes.
 
  At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Indenture.  At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by the Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement will
 Cancellation and/or Adjustment of the Global Notes
(e) 
.
 
 
17
 
be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depository at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
 
  (i)  To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof or at the Registrars request.
 General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
(f) 
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.5.  .
Redemption
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the following Sections supplement Article III of the Indenture:
 
 3.7.  .
Optional Redemption
 
Prior to June 15, 2013, the Notes shall be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the Make-Whole Price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the applicable redemption date. On and after June 15, 2013, the Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in
 
 
18
 
whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the redemption price (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning on of the years indicated below:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to June 15, 2011 the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem the Notes at a redemption price of 108% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings; that:
provided
 
 
 
 
    3.8.  .
   
   
Mandatory Redemption
 
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
 
 3.9  .
Asset Sale Offers
 
In the event that the Company shall commence an Asset Sale Offer pursuant to Section 4.17 hereof, it shall follow the procedures specified below:
 
The Asset Sale Offer shall remain open for 20 Business Days after the Commencement Date relating to such Asset Sale Offer, except to the extent required to be extended by applicable law (as so extended, the Offer Period).  No later than one Business Day after the termination of the Offer Period (the Purchase Date), the Company shall purchase the principal amount (the Offer Amount) of Notes required to be purchased in such Asset Sale Offer pursuant to Sections 3.2 and 4.17 hereof or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered in response to the Asset Sale Offer.
 
If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest payment record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any interest accrued to such Purchase Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer.
 
On the Commencement Date of any Asset Sale Offer, the Company shall send or cause to be sent, by first class mail, a notice to each of the Holders, with a copy to the Trustee.  Such notice, which
 
 
19
 
shall govern the terms of the Asset Sale Offer, shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable the Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer and shall state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On or before 12:00 noon on each Purchase Date, the Company shall irrevocably deposit with the Trustee or Paying Agent in immediately available funds the aggregate purchase price with respect to a principal amount of Notes equal to the Offer Amount, together with accrued interest thereon, to be held for payment in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.9.  On the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment, on a basis to the extent necessary, an aggregate principal amount equal to the Offer Amount of Notes and other notes (in accordance with the terms of Section 4.17 of the Indenture) tendered pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and such other notes or portions thereof tendered, (ii) deliver or cause the Paying Agent or depositary, as the case may be, to deliver to the Trustee Notes so accepted and (iii) deliver to the Trustee an Officers Certificate stating that such Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.9.  The Company, depositary or Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than three Business Days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the
pro rata
 
 
20
 
purchase price with respect to the Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Note, and the Trustee shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note, to such Holder, equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of such Holders Notes surrendered.  Any Note not accepted in the Asset Sale Offer shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof.  The Company shall publicly announce in a newspaper of general circulation the results of the Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date.
 
The Asset Sale Offer shall be made by the Company in compliance with all applicable laws, including, without limitation, Regulation 14E of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, to the extent applicable, and all other applicable federal and state securities laws.
 
Each purchase pursuant to this Section 3.9 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.1 through 3.6 hereof to the extent applicable.
 
In the event the amount of Excess Proceeds to be applied to an Asset Sale Offer would result in the purchase of a principal amount of Notes which is not evenly divisible by $1,000, the Trustee shall promptly refund to the Company the portion of such Excess Proceeds that is not necessary to purchase the immediately lesser principal amount of Notes that is so divisible.
 
Section 2.6.  
Additional Covenants
.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, Sections 2.6(a) through 2.6(l) are added to Article IV of the Indenture.
 
 
21
 
 Restricted Payments.
(a) 
 
4.8.    The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
Restricted Payments
.
 
 
 
 
 
unless, at the time of such Restricted Payment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22
 
and has repurchased all Notes validly tendered for payment in connection with such Change of Control Offer; and
 
 
The Restricted Payments described in clauses (2), (3), (5) and (6) of the immediately preceding paragraph shall be Restricted Payments that shall be permitted to be taken in accordance with such paragraph but shall reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section, and the Restricted Payments described in clauses (1) and (4) of the immediately preceding paragraph shall be Restricted Payments that shall be permitted to be taken in accordance with such paragraph and shall not reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section.
 
If an Investment results in the making of a Restricted Payment, the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments deemed to have been made as calculated under the foregoing provision shall be reduced by the amount of any net reduction in such Investment (resulting from the payment of interest or dividends, loan repayment, transfer of assets or otherwise) to the extent such net reduction is not included in the Companys EBITDA; , , that the total amount by which the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments may be reduced may not exceed the lesser of (a) the cash proceeds received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with such net reduction and (b) the initial amount of such Investment.  In addition, for the avoidance of doubt and to avoid double counting, if an Investment results in the making of a Restricted Payment, then the subsequent assignment, contribution, distribution or other transfer of such Investment by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to any Excluded Restricted Subsidiary or Unrestricted Subsidiary shall not be considered a new Investment or Restricted Payment and shall not further reduce the amount that would otherwise be available for Restricted Payments under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section.
provided
however
 
If the aggregate amount of all Restricted Payments calculated under the foregoing provision includes an Investment in an Unrestricted Subsidiary or other Person that thereafter becomes a Restricted Subsidiary, such Investment will no longer be counted as a Restricted Payment for purposes of calculating the aggregate amount of Restricted Payments.
 
For the purpose of making any Restricted Payment calculations under the Indenture:
 
 
 
 
23
 
Unrestricted Subsidiary) the calculation under clause (iii) of the first paragraph of this Section; and
 
 
The Board of Directors may designate a Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary in compliance with Section 4.15 of the Indenture.  Upon such designation, all outstanding Investments by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (except to the extent repaid in cash) in the Subsidiary so designated will be deemed to be Restricted Payments made at the time of such designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under the first paragraph of this covenant.  Such designation will only be permitted if such Restricted Payment would be permitted at such time and if such Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
 
Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Preferred Stock.
  
(b)
 
4.9.    The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guaranty or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable with respect to (collectively, incur) any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) and the Company shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; provided, however, that the Company may incur Indebtedness and may permit a Restricted Subsidiary to incur Indebtedness if at the time of such incurrence and after giving effect thereto the Leverage Ratio would be less than 6.5 to 1.0.
Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Preferred Stock
.
 
The foregoing limitations shall not apply to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24
 
acceptances incurred in the ordinary course of business up to an aggregate of $5.0 million at any one time outstanding;
 
 
 
.
(c)  
Liens
 
4.10.  .  Neither the Company nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) upon any property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired, or any income, profits or proceeds therefrom, or assign or otherwise convey any right to receive income therefrom, unless (a) in the case of any Lien securing any Indebtedness that is subordinate to the Notes, the Notes are secured by a Lien on such property, assets or proceeds that is senior in priority to such Lien and (b) in the case of any other Lien, the Notes are equally and ratably secured with the obligation or liability secured by such Lien.
Liens
 
.
(d)  
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries
 
4.11.  .  The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to:
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Restricted Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
However, the preceding restrictions will not apply to encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
 
 
 
 
25
 
replacements or refinancings are no more restrictive in the aggregate with respect to such dividend and other payment restrictions than those contained in the Credit Agreement as in effect on the date of the Indenture;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transactions with Affiliates.
  
(e)
 
4.12.  .  The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into any contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate (each of the foregoing, an Affiliate Transaction), unless:
Transactions with Affiliates
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
 
The following items shall not be deemed Affiliate Transactions and therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of the prior paragraph:
 
 
 
 
 
The provisions set forth in clause (b) above shall not apply to sales of inventory by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to any Affiliate in the ordinary course of business.  The provisions of clause (b) (ii) above shall not apply to loans or advances to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from, or equity investments in the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary by, any Affiliate to the extent permitted by the provisions of Section 4.9 of the Indenture.
 
 
27
 
 
(f)
 
Certain Senior Subordinated Debt
.
 
4.13.    The Company shall not incur any Indebtedness that is subordinated or junior in right of payment to any Senior Debt of the Company and senior in any respect in right of payment to the Notes.  The Company shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to incur any Indebtedness that is subordinated or junior in right of payment to its Senior Debt and senior in any respect in right of payment to its Subsidiary Guarantee.
Certain Senior Subordinated Debt
.
 
(g)
 
Additional Subsidiary Guarantees
.
 
4.14.    If any entity (other than an Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) shall become a Restricted Subsidiary after the date of the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, then such Restricted Subsidiary shall execute a supplemental indenture in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto, pursuant to which it shall provide a Subsidiary Guarantee and deliver an Opinion of Counsel with respect thereto, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantees
.
 
No Restricted Subsidiary (including any Excluded Restricted Subsidiary) shall consolidate (or for the avoidance of doubt, amalgamate) with or merge with or into (whether or not such Restricted Subsidiary is the surviving Person), another Person (other than the Company) whether or not affiliated with such Restricted Subsidiary unless:
 
 
 
 
In the event of:
 
 
 
 
then such Restricted Subsidiary (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of such a merger, consolidation (or amalgamation) or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Restricted Subsidiary or in the event of the designation of such Restricted Subsidiary as an Unrestricted Subsidiary) or the Person acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all of the assets of such Restricted
 
 
28
 
Subsidiary) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee, provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 4.17 of the Indenture.
 
.
(h)  
Designation of Unrestricted Subsidiaries
 
4.15.  .  The Board of Directors may designate any Subsidiary (including any Restricted Subsidiary or any newly acquired or newly formed Subsidiary) to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary so long as:
Designation of Unrestricted Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not designate as an Unrestricted Subsidiary any Subsidiary which, on the 1999 Indenture Date, was a Significant Subsidiary, and may not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets of any such Significant Subsidiary to an Unrestricted Subsidiary, other than in the ordinary course of business, in each case other than Iron Mountain Global, Inc. and its Subsidiaries (including without limitation Iron Mountain Europe Limited and its Subsidiaries). For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Section 4.15 shall not limit or restrict the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any properties or assets to any other Subsidiary, including any Unrestricted Subsidiary, to the extent such sale, transfer or other disposition is permitted by the provisions of the Indenture described under Section 4.12 or Section 4.17.
 
The Board of Directors may designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary as a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that such designation will be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation will only be permitted if:
 
 
29
 
 
 
    .
(i)
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
 
4.16.  .  The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction unless:
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
 
 
 
    .
(j)
Asset Sales
 
4.17.  .  The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to:
Asset Sales
 
 
 
that in the case of either clause (1) or (2) above, whether in a single transaction or a series of related transactions:
 
 
 
, , that the amount of:
provided
however
 
 
30
 
 
 
shall be deemed to be cash for purposes of this provision; and provided, further, that the 75% limitation referred to in the foregoing clause (ii) (y) shall not apply to any Asset Sale in which the cash portion of the consideration received therefrom is equal to or greater than what the after-tax proceeds would have been had such Asset Sale complied with the aforementioned 75% limitation.  For the avoidance of doubt, a disposition that constitutes a Restricted Payment will be governed by the provisions of Section 4.8 and not by this Section 4.17.
 
A transfer of assets or issuance of Equity Interests by the Company to a Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary or by a Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or to another Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary will not be deemed to be an Asset Sale.
 
Within 360 days of any Asset Sale, the Company may, at its option, apply an amount equal to the Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale either:
 
 
 
Pending the final application of any such Net Proceeds, the Company may temporarily reduce Senior Bank Debt or otherwise invest such Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by the Indenture.  Any Net Proceeds from such Asset Sale that are not applied or invested as provided in the first sentence of this paragraph will be deemed to constitute Excess Proceeds.  When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $10.0 million, the Company shall make an offer to all Holders of the Notes, all holders of the 7% Notes, the 8% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 6% Notes,  the 8% Notes, the 8% Notes and the 6% Notes and the holders of any future Indebtedness ranking with the Notes, which Indebtedness contains similar provisions requiring the Company to repurchase such Indebtedness (an Asset Sale Offer), to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds, at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Indenture.  To the extent that the aggregate amount of Notes and other Indebtedness (the 7% Notes, the 8% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 7% Notes, the 6% Notes,  the 8% Notes, the 8% Notes and the 6% Notes) tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the Company may use any remaining Excess Proceeds for general corporate purposes.  If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness surrendered by Holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the
pari passu
pari passu
 
 
31
 
Trustee shall select the Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Upon completion of such offer to purchase, the amount of Excess Proceeds shall be reset at zero.
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with each repurchase of Notes pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.17, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Asset Sale provisions of the Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
 
An Asset Sale Offer shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.9 hereof.  No later than the date which is five Business Days after the date on which the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $10.0 million, the Company shall notify the Trustee of such Asset Sale Offer and provide the Trustee with an Officers Certificate setting forth the calculations used in determining the amount of Net Proceeds to be applied to the purchase of Notes.  The Company shall commence or cause to be commenced the Asset Sale Offer on a date no later than 15 Business Days after such notice (the Commencement Date).
 
.
(k)  
Change of Control Offer
 
 4.18.  .
Change of Control Offer
 
(a)  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holders Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the Change of Control Offer) at an offer price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of repurchase (the Change of Control Payment).
 
Within 30 calendar days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, stating:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32
 
 
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent such laws and regulations are applicable to the repurchase of the Notes in connection with a Change of Control.  To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 4.18, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control provisions of the Indenture or the Seventh Supplemental Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
 
(b)  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes so accepted the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; provided that each such new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.18 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
 
 
33
 
.
(l)  
Changes in Covenants When Notes Rated Investment Grade
 
 4.19.  .
Changes in Covenants When Notes Rated Investment Grade
 
If on any date following the date of this Seventh Supplemental Indenture:
 
 
 
 
 
(or, if any such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company as a replacement agency); and
 
 
then, beginning on that day and continuing at all times thereafter regardless of any subsequent changes in the rating of the Notes, Sections 3.9, 4.8, 4.9, 4.11, 4.12, 4.15 and 4.17, clause (3) of Section 4.14, clause (2) of Section 4.16 and clause (d) of Section 5.1 of the Indenture shall no longer be applicable to the Notes.
 
Section 2.7.  
Subsidiary Guarantees.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, Article XII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Notes shall constitute a Series to be guaranteed by the Guarantors pursuant to Article XII of the Indenture.
 
Section 2.8.  
Legal Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, Article VIII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Company shall have the option to effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance pursuant to Article VIII of the Indenture.  In connection with any Covenant Defeasance, the Company shall be released from its obligations under the covenants specified in Sections 4.2 and 5.1 of the Indenture and Section 2.6 of this Seventh Supplemental Indenture.
 
Section 2.9.  
Subordination.
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, Article XIII of the Indenture shall apply, and the Notes shall be subject to subordination pursuant to Article XIII of the Indenture.
 
Section 2.10.  .
Amend, Restate and Replace Covenant Regarding Reports
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, Section 4.2 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
 
34
 
 4.2.  .
Reports
 
Whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the Commission, so long as any Notes are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Holders of Notes:
 
 
 
In addition, whether or not required by the rules and regulations of the Commission, the Company will file a copy of all such information and reports with the Commission for public availability (unless the Commission will not accept such a filing) and make such information available to investors who request it in writing.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at any time the Notes are guaranteed by any direct or indirect parent company of the Company, the indenture will permit the Company to satisfy its obligations under this covenant with respect to financial information relating to the Company by furnishing financial information relating to such direct or indirect parent company; , , that the same is accompanied by consolidating information that explains in reasonable detail the differences between the information relating to such direct or indirect parent company and any of its Subsidiaries other than the Company and its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the information relating to the Company, the Guarantors and the other Subsidiaries of the Company on a standalone basis, on the other hand.
provided
however
 
Section 2.11.  .
Events of Default
 
Section 6.1 of the Indenture is amended with regard to this Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Notes issued hereunder by deleting the $10.0 million threshold in Sections 6.1(e)(ii) and 6.1(f) and substituting in lieu thereof the threshold of $50.0 million.
 
Section 2.12.  .
Amend, Restate and Replace Provision Regarding Personal Liability
 
With respect to the Notes issued under this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, Section 10.8 of the Indenture is amended, restated and replaced in its entirety by the following:
 
 10.8.  .
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders
 
No director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary under the Notes, the Subsidiary Guarantees or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note and the Subsidiary Guarantees waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes and the Subsidiary Guarantees.
 
35
 
 
 
Section 3.1.  
Effect of Headings
s
 
The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
Section 3.2.  
Successors and Assigns.
 
All covenants and agreements in this Seventh Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 3.3.  
Separability Clause.
 
In case any provision in this Seventh Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 3.4.  
Governing Law.
 
This Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Notes created hereby shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to any conflicts of law provisions (other than Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law) that might cause this Seventh Supplemental Indenture and the Notes to be governed by or construed or enforced in accordance with the laws of any other jurisdiction.
 
Section 3.5.  
Seventh Supplement to Supersede Indenture.
 
The Indenture, as supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, remains in full force and effect as of the date hereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any provision of the Indenture shall conflict with any provision of this Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the terms of this Seventh Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed controlling and the conflicting provision of the Indenture shall be null and void to the extent of such conflict.
 
 
 
36
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Seventh Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and attested, all as of the date and year first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
 
ISIN No.: US46284PAL85                    $300,000,000
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
CUSIP No.: 46284PAL8
 
promises to pay to CEDE & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $300,000,00 Dollars on June 15, 2020.
 
Interest Payment Dates:  June 15 and December 15
 
Record Dates:  June 1 and December 1
 
Dated:  June 5, 2008
 
IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED
 
By:   
                                            
Name:
Title:
 
By:    
                                            
Name:
Title
 
This is one of the Notes
referred to in the within-
mentioned Indenture:
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
as Trustee
 
By:   
                                                     
Authorized Signatory
 
 
 
 
 
A-1
 
 
 
This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depository or a nominee of the Depository. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a Person other than the Depository or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository, by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such a successor Depository.
 
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Notes in definitive form, this Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository. Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) ("DTC"), to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as may be requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
1.           .  Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ) promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 8% per annum from June 5, 2008 until June 15, 2020.  The Company shall pay interest, semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an ).  Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be December 15, 2008.  The Company shall pay interest (including post-petition interest to the extent allowed in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal from time to time on demand at a rate equal to the per annum rate on the Notes then in effect; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest to the extent allowed in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
Company
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided
further
 
2.           .  The Company will pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company, however, may pay principal, premium, if any, and interest by check payable in such money. It may mail an interest check to a Holder's registered address.
Method of Payment
 
3.           .  Initially, The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as paying agent, registrar and service agent.  The Notes may be presented for registration of transfer and exchange at the offices of the registrar.  The Company may change any paying agent, service agent or registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
A-2
4.           .  The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of December 30, 2002 (the "Base Indenture") as supplemented by a Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 5, 2008 (the "Seventh Supplemental Indenture " and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture") among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code Sections 77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Notes issued under the Indenture are subordinated unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount.
Indenture
 
5.           .
Optional Redemption
 
Prior to June 15, 2013, the Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the Make-Whole Price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the applicable redemption date. On and after June 15, 2013, the Notes will be subject to redemption at any time at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 10 nor more than 60 days notice, at the redemption price (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning on of the years indicated below:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time prior to June 15, 2011, the Company may on any one or more occasions redeem the Notes at a redemption price of 108% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and Liquidated Damages if any, to the redemption date, with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings; provided that: (i) at least $ 195 million in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (including any Additional Notes) issued under the Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption (excluding Notes held by the Company and the Companys Subsidiaries); and (ii) the redemption must occur within six months of the date of the closing of any such Qualified Equity Offering.
 
6.           .  Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 10 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed at such Holder's address of record. The Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, unless all the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. In the event of a redemption of less than all of the Notes, the Notes will be chosen for redemption by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture. On and after the redemption date, interest ceases to accrue on the Notes or portions of them called for redemption.
Notice of Redemption
 
If this Note is redeemed subsequent to a Record Date with respect to any Interest Payment Date specified above and on or prior to such Interest Payment Date, then any accrued interest will be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on such Record Date.
 
A-3
7.           .  Except as set forth in paragraph 8 below, the Company shall not be required to repurchase or to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.  There are no sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
Mandatory Redemption
 
8.           .  This Note is subject to purchase at the option of the Holder upon the circumstances set forth in Sections 3.9, 4.17 and 4.18 of the Indenture.
Repurchase at Option of Holder
 
9.           . The payment of the principal of, interest on or any other amounts due on the Notes is subordinated in right of payment to all existing and future Senior Debt of the Company, as described in the Indenture. Each Holder, by accepting a Note, agrees to such subordination and authorizes and directs the Trustee on its behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination so provided and appoints the Trustee as its attorney-in-fact for such purpose.
Subordination
 
10.           .  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
11.           .  The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
12.           . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes (including, in each case, Additional Notes, if any). Without the consent of any Holder of the Notes, the Indenture with respect to the Notes or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to, in addition to other events more fully described in the Indenture, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to Holders of the Notes in the case of a merger or consolidation, make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder, or comply with requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
13.           .  An Event of Default with respect to the Notes occurs upon the occurrence of any of the following events: the default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of the Indenture); the default in payment when due of the principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes (whether or not prohibited by the subordination provisions of the Indenture); the failure by the Company to comply with Section 4.18 of the Indenture; the failure by the Company or any Guarantor for 60 days after written notice from the Trustee or Holders of not less than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes
Defaults and remedies
 
A-4
(including Additional Notes, if any) outstanding to comply with any of its other agreements in the Indenture, Notes or the Subsidiary Guarantees; the default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or guarantee exists on the date of the Indenture or is created thereafter, if: (i) such default results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity or shall constitute a default in the payment of such Indebtedness at final maturity of such Indebtedness and (ii) the principal amount of any such Indebtedness that has been accelerated or not paid at maturity, when added to the aggregate principal amount of all other such Indebtedness that has been accelerated or not paid at maturity, exceeds $10.0 million; the failure by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to pay final judgments aggregating in excess of $10.0 million, which judgments remain unpaid, undischarged or unstayed for a period of 60 days; certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Significant Subsidiary; or except as permitted by the Indenture or the Subsidiary Guarantees, any Subsidiary Guarantee issued by a Restricted Subsidiary shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect, or any Restricted Subsidiary or any Person acting on behalf of any Restricted Subsidiary shall deny or disaffirm in writing its obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee.
 
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately; provided, however, that if any Obligation with respect to Senior Bank Debt is outstanding pursuant to the Credit Agreement upon a declaration of acceleration of the Notes, the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will not be payable until the earlier of: (1)the day which is five business days after written notice of acceleration is received by the Company and the Credit Agent or (2) the date of acceleration of the Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Significant Subsidiary, the principal of, and premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest on all outstanding Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. In the event of a declaration of acceleration of the Notes because an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing as a result of the acceleration of any Indebtedness described in Section 6.1(e) of the Indenture, the declaration of acceleration of the Notes shall be automatically annulled if the holders of any Indebtedness described in such section have rescinded the declaration of acceleration in respect of such Indebtedness within 30 days from the date of such declaration and if: (1) the annulment of the acceleration of the Notes would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a competent jurisdiction and (2) all existing Events of Default, except non-payment of principal or interest on the Notes that became due solely because of the acceleration of the Notes, have been cured or waived.
Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required, upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take thereto.
 
14.             Payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest (including interest on overdue principal, if any, and interest, if lawful) on the Notes is guaranteed on an unsecured, senior subordinated basis by the Guarantors pursuant to Article XII of the Indenture.
Subsidiary Guarantees.
 
 
A-5
15.           .  The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
 
16.           .  No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, as such, of the Company or any Guarantor shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guarantor under the Notes, the Subsidiary Guarantees or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation.  Each Holder by accepting a Note and the related Subsidiary Guarantees waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
17.           .  This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
18.           .  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
19.           Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers.
 
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture.  Requests may be made to:
 
Iron Mountain Incorporated
745 Atlantic Avenue
Boston, Massachusetts 02111
Attention:  Chief Financial Officer
 
 
A-6
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:  (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
 
(Insert assignees soc. sec. or  tax I.D. no.)
 
 
 
 
 
(Print or type assignees name, address and zip code)
 
 
and irrevocably appoint          
                                                                                                           
 
to transfer this Note on the books of the Company.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
Date:  __________
Your Signature:      
                                                                                                           
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
 
A-7
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.17 or 4.18 of the Indenture, check the box below:
 
Section 4.17
o 
 
   Section 4.18
o
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.17 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:  $__________
 
Date:  __________                                                     Your Signature:  
                                                     
  (Sign exactly as your name appears on the Note)
   
   
   
   Tax Identification No.:  
   
   
   
                                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-8
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for other Notes have been made:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This schedule should be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
*
 
 
A-9
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
 
Supplemental Indenture (this ), dated as of ________________, 20__, among _______________ (the ), a subsidiary of Iron Mountain Incorporated (or its successor), a Delaware corporation (the ),  and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the ).
Supplemental Indenture
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Company
Trustee
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture, dated as of December 30, 2002, as supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 5, 2008 (the indenture, as so supplemented, the ) providing for the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of up to $300,000,000 of 8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2020 (the );
Indenture
Notes
 
WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Companys obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the ); and
Note Guarantee
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
 
1.             Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
.
 
2.           .  The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees that its obligations to the Holder and the Trustee pursuant to this Subsidiary Guarantee shall be as expressly set forth in Article XII of the Indenture and in such other provisions of the Indenture as are applicable to the Guarantors (including, without limitation, Article XIII of the Indenture), and reference is made to the Indenture for the precise terms of this Supplemental Indenture.  The terms of Article XII of the Indenture and such other provisions of the Indenture (including, without limitation, Article XIII of the Indenture) as are applicable to the Guarantors are incorporated herein by reference.
Agreement to Guarantee
 
3.           .
Execution and Delivery of Subsidiary Guarantees
 
    (a)           If an Officer whose signature is on this Supplemental Indenture no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Subsidiary Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
 
    (b)           The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof under the Indenture, shall constitute due delivery of the Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in this Supplemental Indenture on behalf of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary.
 
B-1
4.           .  No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guarantor (including the Guaranteeing Subsidiary) under the Notes, any Subsidiary Guarantee, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation.  Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability.  The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
5.             THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
New York Law to Govern.
 
6.           .  The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture.  Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
7.           .  The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
8.           .  The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
The Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B-2
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
Dated:  _______________, 20___
 
    [Guaranteeing Subsidiary]
   
   
   
   
 
 
    By:         
   
   
   
   
                                                       
    Name:
   
   
   
   
    Title:
   
   
   
   
 
    [Company]
   
   
   
   
 
    By:                            & #160;                                 
   
   
   
   
                                                       
    Name:
   
   
   
   
    Title:
   
   
   
   
    [Trustee],
   
   
   
   
 
      as Trustee
   
   
   
   
 
    By: 
   
   
   
   
                                                        
    Authorized Signatory
   
   
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B-3
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
        The Company's Board has unanimously approved, and unanimously recommends that the stockholders of the Company approve, an amendment, attached as Appendix A, to the 2002 Plan to increase the number of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the 2002 Plan by 7,500,000 from 12,528,815 to 20,028,815 and extend the termination date thereunder from March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2018.
 
        The Board believes that equity interests are a significant factor in the Company's ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, directors and other service providers (generally, and in connection with acquisitions) that are critical to the Company's long-term success and that an increase in the number of shares available for issuance under the 2002 Plan is necessary in order to provide those persons with incentives to serve the Company. The Board believes an extension of the termination date from March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2018 is appropriate in connection with the increase in shares available for issuance under the 2002 Plan.
 
        In approving the increase in the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2002 Plan, the Board considered (i) that only approximately 2,203,903 shares remained available for grant under the 2002 Plan as of April 1, 2008, (ii) the average annual rate of grants of 1,843,412 from 2002 through 2007 and (iii) the portion of the Company's outstanding shares represented by equity compensation, including shares subject to options. Further, under applicable federal income tax law, if the shares available under the 2002 Plan are increased by an amendment approved by the stockholders, the ten year period established for purposes of issuing tax favored incentive stock options, or ISOs, under the plan may be reset. The proposed increase will provide the Company with additional options for use in future grants, including in connection with acquisitions. Based on the Company's current outstanding common stock and assuming all shares available for grant under the 2002 Plan were issued and outstanding, dilution would increase from 6.7% to 9.8% as a result of the additional 7,500,000 shares available for grant under the 2002 Plan. Even with this increased dilution the Company would be only slightly above the 25  percentile of the Custom Peer Group (as defined and discussed in "Executive CompensationCompensation Discussion and Analysis" below), which is 9.5% dilution resulting from option plans, while the median is at 11.6% dilution resulting from option plans.
th
 
Summary of the 2002 Plan
 
        The following summary of the material features of the 2002 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the 2002 Plan and the First and Second Amendments thereto, which are filed as appendices to the Company's Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A filed in April 2002, April 2004 and April 2006, respectively.
 
        The 2002 Plan permits the issuance of equity-based awards, including incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, grants of Common Stock, whether or not subject to restrictions, and stock appreciation rights. The 2002 Plan initially reserved 3,043,221 (after all stock dividends) shares of Common Stock and the stockholders approved the First Amendment to the 2002 Plan in May 2004 to increase the number of shares reserved to 7,543,222 (after all stock dividends) shares of Common Stock and approved the Second Amendment to the 2002 Plan in May 2006 to increase the number of shares reserved to 12,528,815 (after all stock dividends) shares of Common Stock. If stockholders approve the proposed amendment to the 2002 Plan, the total amount of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the 2002 Plan will be 20,028,815.
 
    The 2002 Plan became effective April 1, 2002. The purpose of the 2002 Plan is to encourage employees, officers, directors and consultants of the Company and our subsidiaries who render services to us to continue their association with us by
        Purpose, Eligible Individuals, Effective Date and Duration.
 
 
12
 
 
 
providing favorable opportunities for them to participate in the ownership of our Common Stock and in our future growth through grants of our Common Stock, with or without restrictions, options to acquire our Common Stock and other rights to compensation in amounts determined by the value of our Common Stock, or Awards. For this purpose, subsidiaries include corporations, companies, partnerships and other forms of business organizations in which we own directly or indirectly 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock or other form of equity ownership or in which we have a significant financial interest. The recipient of an Award is referred to as an "Optionee." At this time, approximately 1,200 persons are eligible to receive options pursuant to the 2002 Plan.
 
        The 2002 Plan provides for termination on March 31, 2012, or March 31, 2018 if the proposed amendment is passed, unless earlier terminated by the Board. Termination of the 2002 Plan will not affect Awards made prior to termination, but no Awards will be made after termination.
 
    The total number of shares of our Common Stock that may be subject to Awards under the 2002 Plan may not exceed 12,528,815 (after all stock dividends) shares, or 20,028,815 shares if the proposed amendment is approved. The shares may be authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares. The total amount of Common Stock that may be granted under the Plan to any single person in any calendar year may not exceed in the aggregate 1,125,000 shares. To the extent that an option or other form of Award lapses or is forfeited, the shares subject to the Award will again become available for grant under the terms of the 2002 Plan.
        Shares Subject to the 2002 Plan.
 
        In the event of any change in the number of shares or kind of Common Stock outstanding pursuant to a reorganization, recapitalization, exchange of shares, stock dividend or split or combination of shares, appropriate adjustments will be made to the number of shares of authorized Common Stock, to the number of shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding Awards, to the exercise price per share of options and other forms of Awards and to the kind of shares that may be issued under the 2002 Plan.
 
        As of April 1, 2008, 9,302,371 Awards were outstanding, consisting primarily of options to purchase shares of Common Stock under the 2002 Plan.
 
    Although the Board has the authority to administer the Plan, it has generally delegated this authority to the Compensation Committee, which administers all of our equity-based compensation plans. Each member of the Compensation Committee is a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act and an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code.
        Administration.
 
        Subject to the terms of the 2002 Plan, the Compensation Committee has the authority to: (1) select or approve Award recipients (including Optionees); (2) determine the terms and conditions of Awards, including the price to be paid by an Optionee for any Common Stock; and (3) interpret the 2002 Plan and prescribe rules and regulations for its administration.
 
    The Compensation Committee may grant incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options under the 2002 Plan. The Compensation Committee determines the number of shares of Common Stock subject to each option, its exercise price, its duration and the manner and time of exercise. Incentive stock options may be issued only to employees of the Company or of a corporate subsidiary of ours, and the exercise price must be at least equal to the fair market value of the Common Stock as of the date the option is granted. Further, an incentive stock option generally must be exercised within ten years of grant. The Compensation Committee, in its discretion, may provide that any option is subject to vesting limitations that make it exercisable during its entire duration or during any lesser period of time.
        Stock Options.
 
        The exercise price of an option may be paid in cash, in shares of Common Stock owned by the Optionee, by delivery of a recourse promissory note secured by the Common Stock acquired upon
 
13
 
 
exercise of the option (except that such a loan would not be available to any executive officer or director of the Company) or by means of a "cashless exercise" procedure in which a broker transmits to us the exercise price in cash, either as a margin loan or against the Optionee's notice of exercise and confirmation by us that we will issue and deliver to the broker stock certificates for that number of shares of Common Stock having an aggregate fair market value equal to the exercise price, or agrees to pay the exercise price to us in cash upon its receipt of stock certificates.
 
        In its discretion, and subject to the terms of the 2002 Plan, the Compensation Committee may grant a reload option to purchase the number of shares of Common Stock delivered to us in full or partial payment of the exercise price on the exercise of any option or in full or partial payment of the tax withholding obligations resulting from the exercise of any option.
 
        Options are, at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, transferable to members of the Optionee's immediate family or to a family partnership or trust for the benefit of the Optionee's immediate family.
 
    The Compensation Committee may also grant stock appreciation rights to Optionees on such terms and conditions as it may determine. Stock appreciation rights may be granted separately or in connection with an option. Upon the exercise of a stock appreciation right, the Optionee is entitled to receive payment equal to the excess of the fair market value, on the date of exercise, of the number of shares of Common Stock for which the stock appreciation right is exercised, over the exercise price for the Common Stock under a related option, or if there is not a related option, over an amount per share stated in the agreement setting forth the terms and conditions of the stock appreciation right. Payment may be made in cash or other property, including Common Stock, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable agreement. Upon the exercise of a stock appreciation right related to an option, the option will terminate as to the number of shares of Common Stock for which the stock appreciation right is exercised.
        Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
    The Compensation Committee may issue shares of Common Stock to Optionees, either with or without restrictions, as determined by it in its discretion. Restrictions may include conditions that require the Optionee to forfeit the shares in the event that the holder ceases to provide services to us or one of our subsidiaries before a stated time. Unlike holders of options and stock appreciation rights, the recipient of a stock grant, including a stock grant subject to restrictions, unless otherwise provided for in a restricted stock agreement, has the rights of a stockholder of ours to vote and to receive payment of dividends on our Common Stock.
        Stock Grants.
 
    The Compensation Committee may grant in connection with any nonqualified stock option or stock grant a special cash bonus in an amount not to exceed the lesser of (1) the combined federal, state and local income and employment tax liability incurred by the Optionee as a consequence of acquiring Common Stock on the exercise of the option or the grant or vesting of Common Stock, and the related special bonus, or (2) 30% of the imputed income realized by the Optionee on account of the exercise or vesting, and the related special bonus. A grant may also provide that the Company will lend an Optionee an amount not more than the amount described in the preceding sentence, less the amount of any special cash bonus.
        Special Bonus Awards.
 
    If while unexercised Awards remain outstanding under the 2002 Plan we merge or consolidate with one or more corporations (whether or not we are the surviving corporation), if we are liquidated or sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of our assets to another entity or if there is a "change in control" then, except as otherwise specifically provided to the contrary in any applicable agreement, the Compensation Committee may in its discretion amend the terms of all unexercised Awards so that either: (1) after the effective date of the event, each Optionee is entitled, upon exercise of an Award, to receive in lieu of Common Stock the number and class of shares of such stock or other securities to which he or she would have been entitled had he or she been a stockholder at the time of the event, or is entitled to receive from the successor entity a
        Effect of Certain Corporate Transactions.
 
14
 
 
new Award of comparable value; (2) each Optionee is given an opportunity to exercise all or some of his or her unexercised Awards during a 20 day period ending with the event, at which time the unexercised Awards will be cancelled; or (3) all unexercised Awards are cancelled as of the effective date of the event in consideration for cash or other consideration with a value equal to the value of the shares the Optionee would have received had the Award been exercised (to the extent exercisable). In addition to the foregoing, the Compensation Committee may in its discretion also amend the terms of an Award by canceling some or all of the restrictions on its exercise to permit its exercise to a greater extent than that permitted under its existing terms.
 
        For these purposes, a change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any person (as that term is used in Section 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) other than a trust related to any employee benefit plan maintained by the Company becomes the beneficial owner of 50% or more of our outstanding Common Stock, and within the period of 24 consecutive months immediately thereafter, individuals other than (1) individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the entire Board or (2) individuals whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period, become a majority of the Board.
 
    The Board may modify, revise or terminate the 2002 Plan at any time and from time to time, except that approval of our stockholders is required with respect to any amendment to change the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the 2002 Plan or to any person in a year, change the class of persons eligible to receive Awards or make any other changes that require stockholder approval under applicable law. Amendments adversely affecting outstanding Awards may not be made without the consent of the holder of the Award.
        Amendments to the 2002 Plan.
 
        The Board may also amend without stockholder approval, and has in fact amended, the 2002 Plan as necessary to enable awards to qualify for favorable foreign tax treatment in the case of an Optionee who is subject to a tax regime outside the United States.
 
    The following description of the federal income tax consequences of Awards is general and does not purport to be complete.
        Tax Treatment.
 
    An Optionee realizes no taxable income when a nonqualified stock option is granted. Instead, the difference between the fair market value of the Common Stock acquired pursuant to an exercise of an option and the exercise price paid is taxed as ordinary compensation income when the option is exercised. The difference is measured and taxed as of the date of exercise, if the Common Stock is not subject to a "substantial risk of forfeiture," or as of the date or dates on which the risk terminates in other cases. An Optionee may elect to be taxed on the difference between the exercise price and the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of exercise, even though some or all of the Common Stock acquired is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. Gain on the subsequent sale of the Common Stock acquired by exercise of the option is taxed as short-term or long-term capital gain, depending on the holding period after exercise. We receive no tax deduction on the grant of a nonqualified stock option, but we are entitled to a tax deduction when the Optionee recognizes ordinary compensation income on or after exercise of the option, in the same amount as the income recognized by the Optionee.
        Tax Treatment of Options.
 
        Generally, an Optionee incurs no federal income tax liability on either the grant or the exercise of an incentive stock option, although an Optionee will generally have taxable income for alternative minimum tax purposes at the time of exercise equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the option over the exercise price. Provided that the Common Stock is held for at least one year after the date of exercise of the option and at least two years after its date of grant, any gain realized on a subsequent sale of the Common Stock will be taxed as long-term capital gain. If the Common Stock is disposed of within a shorter period of time, the Optionee will recognize ordinary compensation income in an amount equal to the difference between the sales price and the
 
15
 
 
exercise price or (if less) the difference between the fair market value at the time of exercise and the exercise price. We receive no tax deduction on the grant or exercise of an incentive stock option, but we are entitled to a tax deduction if the Optionee recognizes ordinary compensation income on account of a premature disposition of shares acquired on exercise of an incentive stock option, in the same amount and at the same time as the Optionee recognizes income.
 
    An Optionee recognizes no income upon the grant of a stock appreciation right, but upon its exercise realizes ordinary compensation income in an amount equal to the cash or cash equivalent that he receives at that time. If the Optionee receives Common Stock upon exercise of the stock appreciation right, he recognizes ordinary compensation income equal to the fair market value of the Common Stock received (or, if the Common Stock is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture at the exercise date, at the date or dates on which the risk expires, unless he or she elects to be taxed currently), which is measured by the difference between the base amount set forth in the related agreement and the fair market value of the Common Stock. We are entitled to a tax deduction in the amount of ordinary compensation income recognized.
        Tax Treatment of Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
    A person who receives a stock grant without any restrictions will recognize ordinary compensation income on the fair market value of the Common Stock over the amount (if any) paid for the Common Stock. If the Common Stock is subject to restrictions, the recipient generally will not recognize ordinary compensation income at the time the award is received, but will recognize ordinary compensation income when restrictions constituting a substantial risk of forfeiture lapse. The amount of such income will be equal to the excess of the aggregate fair market value, as of the date the restrictions lapse, over the amount (if any) paid for the Common Stock. Alternatively, the Optionee may elect to be taxed, pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code, on the excess of the fair market value of the Common Stock at the time of grant over the amount (if any) paid for the Common Stock, notwithstanding any restrictions. All such taxable amounts are deductible by us at the time and in the amount of the ordinary compensation income recognized by the Optionee.
        Tax Treatment of Stock Grants.
 
    Section 162(m) of the Code generally disallows an income tax deduction to public companies for compensation in excess of $1,000,000 paid in any year to our principal executive officer, or PEO, and the three other most highly compensated executive officers, but not including our principal financial officer, to the extent that this compensation is not "performance-based" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. In the case of a stock plan, the performance-based exception is satisfied if, in addition to other requirements, the plan, including the amount of stock available for grant under the plan, is approved by stockholders, the grants are made by a committee of outside directors, and the amount of compensation a person can receive is based solely on an increase in the value of the Common Stock after grant. If the proposed amendment is approved by stockholders, one of the requirements for the performance-based exception will continue to be satisfied with respect to shares awarded under the Plan.
        Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
    The benefits or amounts that may be received or allocated to any individual under the 2002 Plan, as proposed to be amended, are not determinable.
        Award Information.
 
16
 
 
        Options to purchase Common Stock that have been granted under the 2002 Plan in the past are set forth in the following table.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
 
 
1.    Section 1 of the Iron Mountain Incorporated 2006 Senior (the "2006 SEIP") is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Executive Incentive Program
 
"1.         The sole participant in this Program shall be Robert T. Brennan, the Chief Executive Officer of Iron Mountain Incorporated (the "Corporation").
Participant.
 
2.    Section 2 of the 2006 SEIP is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"2.         The maximum amount payable under this Program with respect to a fiscal year shall be the lesser of 1.25 times Mr. Brennan's annual base compensation for the fiscal year or $1,500,000.00 (the "Annual Limit")."
Annual Limit on Incentive Compensation.
 
3.    Section 3 of the 2006 SEIP is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"3.         While the outcome for the Corporation's fiscal year to which the incentive compensation relates is substantially uncertain (but not more than 90 days after the start of that fiscal year), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall establish the criteria for the payment of the Annual Limit. Such criteria may be based on any one or more of the following business criteria: EBITDA; OIBDA; contribution; gross revenues; growth rate; capital spending; return on invested capital; free cash flow; operating income; attaining budget; and achievement of stated corporate goals including, but not limited to acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, international development and internal expansion. Any such criteria shall be adjusted as necessary to reflect acquisitions. If such objectives are not fully achieved, the Compensation Committee may provide that less than 100 percent of the Annual Limit shall be payable.
Eligibility for Incentive Compensation.
 
Following the close of the fiscal year, the Compensation Committee shall certify whether such criteria were satisfied."
 
4.    These amendments will be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2009; provided, however, that prior to effectiveness these amendments must first be approved by an affirmative vote of a majority of the votes properly cast at a duly held meeting of the stockholders of the Company at which a quorum representing a majority of all outstanding common stock is present, in person or by proxy. Except as hereinabove amended, the provisions of the 2006 SEIP shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.3
 
 
 
1.    Section 3 of the Iron Mountain Incorporated 2003 Senior Executive Incentive Program (the "2003 SEIP") is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"3.         While the outcome for the Corporation's fiscal year to which the incentive compensation relates is substantially uncertain (but not more than 90 days after the start of that fiscal year), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall establish the criteria for the payment of the Annual Limit. Such criteria may be based on any one or more of the following business criteria: EBITDA; OIBDA; contribution; gross revenues; growth rate; capital spending; return on invested capital; free cash flow; operating income; attaining budget; and achievement of stated corporate goals including, but not limited to acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, international development and internal expansion. Any such criteria shall be adjusted as necessary to reflect acquisitions. If such objectives are not fully achieved, the Compensation Committee may provide that less than 100 percent of the Annual Limit shall be payable.
Eligibility for Incentive Compensation.
 
Following the close of the fiscal year, the Compensation Committee shall certify whether such criteria were satisfied."
 
2.    This amendment will be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2009; provided, however, that prior to effectiveness this amendment must first be approved by an affirmative vote of a majority of the votes properly cast at a duly held meeting of the stockholders of the Company at which a quorum representing a majority of all outstanding common stock is present, in person or by proxy. Except as hereinabove amended, the provisions of the 2003 SEIP shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


