FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20101005080019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 5, 2010
IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
DELAWARE
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
745 Atlantic Avenue
Boston, Massachusetts 02111
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(617) 535-4766
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 5, 2010, the Company issued a press release setting forth the Company's financial guidance for the full year ending December 31, 2010. In addition, the Company outlined its financial performance expectations for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On October 5, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing an increase of $200 million to its existing share repurchase program. A copy of the Companys press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       Exhibits
99.1      Press Release of Iron Mountain Incorporated dated October 5, 2010 (furnished herewith). 99.2      Press Release of iron Mountain Incorporated dated October 5, 2010 (filed herewith).
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Iron Mountain Incorporated Hosts 13
th
Annual Investor Day
CEO Brennan outlines Companys long-term growth strategy; describes initiatives targeted at increasing growth and highlights how disciplined execution continues to drive strong financial performance
Company reinforces that it is on track towards full year goals; highlights strong profit and cash flow performance; previews 2011 targets
Separately, the Company announced a $200 million increase to its existing share repurchase program
BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 5, 2010--Iron Mountain Incorporated (NYSE: IRM), an information management services company, hosted its 13 Annual Investor Day today in New York City. This annual gathering of Company management, investors and Wall Street analysts features management presentations covering a variety of important topics related to the Company's strategy, execution and financial performance. The Company described the large and expanding market opportunities in the information management industry and outlined its operating and financial strategies aimed at capitalizing on these opportunities. The Company previewed expectations for its 2011 financial performance while reinforcing its strong long-term financial outlook.
th
In a separate release, the Company announced that its board of directors had approved an increase to its existing share repurchase program in the amount of $200 million. This authorization is in addition to the $150 million authorization announced earlier this year, which, as of September 30, 2010, had approximately $55 million remaining.
For 2010, the Company indicated that its outlook is tracking within its most recently issued guidance ranges. The company highlighted that revenue growth is trending towards the lower end of the guidance range, primarily reflecting continued soft core service activity levels. Profit and cash flow performance remain solidly on track for targeted full year gains. The Company will provide a more detailed update to its 2010 outlook when it reports third quarter financial results on October 28, 2010.
As a reminder, the Company issued the following financial performance expectations on July 29, 2010 (dollars in millions, except per share data):
Iron Mountain also previewed its outlook for its 2011 financial performance. The Company is maintaining a measured outlook for revenue and Adjusted OIBDA growth in the current environment. Adjusted OIBDA gains will be constrained by select factors, including prioritized investments in support of growth initiatives. Strong projected cash flow gains reflect expectations for continued capital spending efficiencies. For its full year 2011, the Company currently expects the following (dollars in millions, except per share data):
The preliminary guidance does not include any projected impact from future acquisitions and any potential expenses associated with future acquisitions.
The Company will make an audiocast of its Investor Day presentation available on its website (). Please check the website for details regarding the timing of the posting of the audiocast. The slides that will be presented at the conference will also be posted to the website and available for viewing after 9:00 A.M. on Tuesday, October 5, 2010.
www.ironmountain.com
About Iron Mountain
Iron Mountain Incorporated (NYSE: IRM) provides information management services that help organizations lower the costs, risks and inefficiencies of managing their physical and digital data. The Companys solutions enable customers to protect and better use their informationregardless of its format, location or lifecycle stageso they can optimize their business and ensure proper recovery, compliance and discovery. Founded in 1951, Iron Mountain manages billions of information assets, including business records, electronic files, medical data, emails and more for organizations around the world. Visit for more information.
www.ironmountain.com
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and federal securities laws, and is subject to the safe-harbor created by such Act. Forward-looking statements include our 2010 and 2011 financial performance outlook, statements regarding the Companys intent to repurchase shares and to pay dividends, the Companys financial ability and sources to fund the repurchase program and dividend policy and the amounts of such repurchases and dividends and statements regarding our goals, beliefs, future growth strategies, investment objectives, plans and current expectations. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (i) the price, volume or timing of stock repurchases may be impacted by legal restrictions or limits under a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan; (ii) alternative, more attractive investments to dividends or stock repurchases that may become available; (iii) the cost to comply with current and future laws, regulations and customer demands relating to privacy issues; (iv) the impact of litigation that may arise in connection with incidents in which we fail to protect the Companys customers information;(v) changes in the price for the Companys services relative to the cost of providing such services; (vi) changes in customer preferences and demand for the Companys services;(vii) in the various digital businesses in which the Company is engaged, the cost of capital and technical requirements, demand for the Companys services or competition for customers; (viii) the Companys ability or inability to complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms and to integrate acquired companies efficiently; (ix) the cost or potential liabilities associated with real estate necessary for the Companys business; (x) the performance of business partners upon whom the Company depends for technical assistance or management expertise outside the United States; (xi) changes in the political and economic environments in the countries in which the Companys international subsidiaries operate; (xii) claims that the Companys technology violates the intellectual property rights of a third party; (xiii) other trends in competitive or economic conditions affecting Iron Mountains financial condition or results of operations not presently contemplated; and (xiv) other risks described more fully in the Companys most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A. Risk Factors. Except as required by law, Iron Mountain undertakes no obligation to release publicly the result of any revision to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
CONTACT: Iron Mountain Incorporated Stephen P. Golden, 617-535-4799 Vice President, Investor Relations
Investor Relations Contact:
sgolden@ironmountain.com

Exhibit 99.2
Iron Mountain Announces $200 Million Increase to Share Repurchase Program
BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 5, 2010--Iron Mountain Incorporated (NYSE: IRM), an information management services company, today announced that its board of directors approved an increase in the amount authorized under its existing share repurchase program of up to an additional $200 million in repurchases of the Companys common stock. This $200 million increase represents approximately 5% of the Companys outstanding common stock based on the closing price on September 30, 2010. This authorization is in addition to the $150 million authorization announced earlier this year, which, as of September 30, 2010, had approximately $55 million remaining.
Our focus on optimizing our business and our disciplined execution have produced a strong balance sheet and higher levels of free cash flow, said Bob Brennan, president and CEO. This action demonstrates our confidence in the long-term potential of the Company and our commitment to delivering long-term value to our shareholders.
Any purchases made under Iron Mountains repurchase program may be made from time to time in the open market or through negotiated transactions. All purchases are subject to stock price, market conditions, corporate and legal requirements and other factors. We intend to comply with Rule 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, the Finance Committee of the board of directors has been granted the authority to establish trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act. This will allow the Company to repurchase shares in the open market during periods in which the stock trading window is otherwise closed for the Company. As of July 26, 2010, the Company had approximately 202 million shares of its common stock outstanding.
About Iron Mountain
Iron Mountain Incorporated (NYSE: IRM) provides information management services that help organizations lower the costs, risks and inefficiencies of managing their physical and digital data. The Companys solutions enable customers to protect and better use their informationregardless of its format, location or lifecycle stageso they can optimize their business and ensure proper recovery, compliance and discovery. Founded in 1951, Iron Mountain manages billions of information assets, including business records, electronic files, medical data, emails and more for organizations around the world. Visit for more information.
www.ironmountain.com
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and federal securities laws, and is subject to the safe-harbor created by such Act and laws. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the Companys intent to repurchase shares, the Companys financial ability and sources to fund the repurchase program and the amounts of such repurchases and statements regarding our goals, beliefs, future growth strategies, investment objectives, plans and current expectations. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (i) the price, volume or timing of stock repurchases may be impacted by legal restrictions or limits under a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan; (ii) alternative, more attractive investments to dividends or stock repurchases that may become available; (iii) the cost to comply with current and future laws, regulations and customer demands relating to privacy issues; (iv) the impact of litigation that may arise in connection with incidents in which we fail to protect the Companys customers information;(v) changes in the price for the Companys services relative to the cost of providing such services; (vi) changes in customer preferences and demand for the Companys services;(vii) in the various digital businesses in which the Company is engaged, the cost of capital and technical requirements, demand for the Companys services or competition for customers; (viii) the Companys ability or inability to complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms and to integrate acquired companies efficiently; (ix) the cost or potential liabilities associated with real estate necessary for the Companys business; (x) the performance of business partners upon whom the Company depends for technical assistance or management expertise outside the United States; (xi) changes in the political and economic environments in the countries in which the Companys international subsidiaries operate; (xii) claims that the Companys technology violates the intellectual property rights of a third party; (xiii) other trends in competitive or economic conditions affecting Iron Mountains financial condition or results of operations not presently contemplated; and (xiv) other risks described more fully in the Companys most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1A. Risk Factors. Except as required by law, Iron Mountain undertakes no obligation to release publicly the result of any revision to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
CONTACT: Iron Mountain Incorporated Stephen P. Golden, 617-535-4799 Vice President, Investor Relations
sgolden@ironmountain.com


