FILE:IRM/IRM-8K-20100305162502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
March 5, 2010
 
IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
 
745 Atlantic Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02111
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(617) 535-4766
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e- 4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On March 4, 2010, Iron Mountain Incorporated's (the "Company") Board of Directors (the "Board") expanded the size of the Board by one member, from ten to eleven, and elected Alfred J. Verrecchia as a member of the Board.
 
Mr. Verrecchia began his career at Hasbro, Inc. ("Hasbro"), a publicly held entertainment products and services company, and has held several senior leadership positions at Hasbro, most recently serving as chief executive officer from 2003 through 2008.  Since 2008, he has held the position of Chairman of the Board at Hasbro.  Mr. Verrecchia currently serves as a director of FGX International Holdings and is a member of its audit committee. He also served on the board of CVS Caremark from September 2004 until March 2007, where he was a member of the audit committee. Mr. Verrecchia also sits on various nonprofit boards, including serving as chairman of Lifespan, Rhode Island's largest hospital and medical system.
 
For his service as a director, Mr. Verrecchia will be entitled to the compensation the Company generally provides to its non-employee directors. A summary of the Company's currently-effective director compensation is filed as Exhibit 10.34 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.   He will also be able to participate in the Company's Director Deferred Compensation Plan.  Upon his election, Mr. Verrecchia received an option to purchase 2,218 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $25.53 per share (equal to the fair market value of the common stock on March 4, 2010, as calculated in accordance with the option plan). This option will vest on the one year anniversary of the grant (or, if earlier, the annual meeting of Iron Mountain Incorporated that is closest to the one year anniversary).
 
Mr. Verrecchia has no family relationships with any director or executive officer of the Company, and there are no transactions in which Mr. Verrecchia has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
Effective March 5, 2010, the Board approved amended and restated Bylaws of the Company (the "Bylaws") primarily in order to revise those provisions of Articles II and III of the Bylaws addressing the required vote for director elections.  The amendments change the required vote for the election of directors from a plurality to a majority of votes cast in uncontested elections. A majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director nominee must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director nominee.  In contested elections where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the required vote will continue to be a plurality of votes cast.
 
Article III of the Bylaws was amended by adding provisions requiring each director nominee to agree to tender, promptly following the annual meeting at which he or she is elected as director, an irrevocable resignation that will be effective upon (1) the failure to receive the required number of votes for reelection at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which he or
 
she faces reelection and (2) acceptance of such resignation by the Board.  The Bylaws also clarify the resignation process for director nominees who fail to receive the required number of votes for reelection.
 
In addition, the Board also eliminated references in Article IV to the Board's executive committee since this committee was dissolved on March 5, 2010.
 
The foregoing summary of the amendments to the Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company as adopted on March 5, 2010.  A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as adopted on March 5, 2010, is filed as Exhibit 3.1 and a copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws marked to show changes from the Bylaws previously in effect is filed as Exhibit 3.2, and each is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Effective March 5, 2010, as part of a comprehensive review of its corporate governance policies, the Company amended and restated its Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Board's Nominating and Governance Committee's charter to, among other things:
 
                 
implement a policy under which the Board may take various actions if an executive officer has engaged in fraudulent or other intentional misconduct.  Among other things, if the misconduct resulted in a material inaccuracy in the Company's financial statements or performance metrics, which affect the executive officer's compensation, the Board may seek reimbursement of certain performance-based or incentive compensation;
 
                 
limit the number of boards of directors of public companies on which a director may serve;
 
                 
formalize the Board's policy to give due consideration to the Board's overall balance of diversity of perspectives, backgrounds and experiences in connection with the selection of nominees for director;
 
                 
clarify that the Board is responsible for overseeing the Company's risk management, either directly or through a committee;
 
                 
clarify the process of the annual review of the Board and its committees and institute annual evaluations of individual Board members; and
 
                 
eliminate references to the Executive Committee's role, as it was dissolved.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
 
Section 1.1. The registered office of the Corporation shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware and the name of the resident agent in charge thereof shall be Corporation Service Company.
 Registered Office.
 
Section 1.2. The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the "Board of Directors" or the "Board") may from time to time appoint or the business of the Corporation may require.
 Other Offices.
 
Section 1.3. The books of the Corporation may be kept within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Books.
 
Section 2.1. All meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors (or the Chairman in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors) may designate from time to time.
 Time and Place of Meetings.
 
Section 2.2. The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting.
 Annual Meeting.
 
Section 2.3. Special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, the President (if there shall be no Chief Executive Officer) or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the Board of Directors.
 Special Meetings.
 
Section 2.4. At an annual or special meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be acted upon, as shall have been properly brought before such annual or special meeting of stockholders. To be properly brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders, business must be (i) in the case of a special meeting, specified in the notice of the special meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by the Board of Directors, or (ii) in the case of an annual meeting, specified in the notice of the annual meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by a stockholder who shall have been a stockholder of record on the record date for such meeting and shall continue to be entitled to vote thereat (including through any adjournment or postponement thereof).  Stockholders shall not be permitted to propose business to be brought before a special meeting of the stockholders, and the only matters that may be brought before a special meeting are
 Introduction of Business At a Meeting of Stockholders.
the matters specified in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the person calling the meeting pursuant to Section 2.3 of these Bylaws.  Stockholders seeking to nominate persons for election to the Board of Directors must comply with Section 3.2 and Section 3.3 of these Bylaws and this Section 2.4 shall not be applicable to nominations except as expressly provided in Section 3.2.  For business (other than the nomination of a person for election as a director, which is governed by Section 3.2 of these Bylaws) to be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder notice must be delivered to, or mailed and received at, the principal executive offices of the Corporation (A) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 90 nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders was held (the "Anniversary"), and (B) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, not later than the later of (x) the 120
th
 day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made.  For purposes of these Bylaws (including Section 3.2), "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
In order to be effective, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth:
 
(i) as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before an annual meeting of stockholders,  a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and, if a specific action is to be proposed, the text of the resolution(s) which the proposing stockholder proposes that the stockholders adopt; and
 
(ii) as to the stockholder proposing the matter (a) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting, including the class and number of shares of such stock that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder, and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to bring the business specified in the notice before the meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business and any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such proposal, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by any stockholders known by the proposing stockholder to be supporting such proposal on the date of such stockholder's notice, (d) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to such business between or among the stockholder and any of its affiliates or associates, and any others (including their names) acting in concert with any of the foregoing, and a representation that the stockholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed, (e) any (1) derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions engaged in, directly or indirectly, by the stockholder, the purpose or effect of which is to give the stockholder economic risk similar to ownership of shares of any class or series of the Corporation, including due to the fact that the value of such derivative, swap or other transactions are determined by reference to the price, value or volatility of any shares of any class or series of the Corporation, or which derivative, swap or other transactions provide, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any increase in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the Corporation ("Synthetic Equity Interests"), which Synthetic Equity Interests shall be disclosed without regard to whether (x) the derivative, swap or other transactions convey any voting rights in such shares to
the stockholder, (y) the derivative, swap or other transactions are required to be, or are capable of being, settled through delivery of such shares or (z) the stockholder may have entered into other transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such derivative, swap or other transactions, (2) any proxy (other than a revocable proxy or consent given in response to a solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act by way of a solicitation statement filed on Schedule 14A), agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship pursuant to which the stockholder has or shares a right to vote any shares of any class or series of the Corporation, (3) any agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship, including any repurchase or similar so-called "stock borrowing" agreement or arrangement, engaged in, directly or indirectly, by the stockholder, the purpose or effect of which is to mitigate loss to, reduce the economic risk (of ownership or otherwise) of shares of any class or series of the Corporation by, manage the risk of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, the stockholder with respect to the shares of any class or series of the Corporation, or which provides, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any decrease in the price or value of the shares of any class or series of the Corporation ("Short Interests"), (4) any rights to dividends on the shares of any class or series of the Corporation owned beneficially by the stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (5) any performance related fees (other than an asset based fee) that the stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the Corporation, or any Synthetic Equity Interests or Short Interests, if any, (6) any other information relating to the stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies or consents by the stockholder in support of the business proposed to be brought before the meeting pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act (the disclosures to be made pursuant to the foregoing clauses (d) and (e)(1) through (6), the "Disclosable Interests"); and a representation that the stockholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such Disclosable Interests in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed; provided, however, that Disclosable Interests shall not include any such disclosures with respect to the ordinary course business activities of any broker, dealer, commercial bank, trust company or other nominee who is proposing business solely as a result of being the stockholder directed to prepare and submit the notice required by these Bylaws on behalf of a beneficial owner; (f) whether such stockholder intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of, in the case of a proposal, at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under these Bylaws and applicable law to carry the proposal (an affirmative statement of such intent, a "Solicitation Notice"), and (g) any material interest of the stockholder in such proposal.
 
If the stockholder has provided the Corporation with a Solicitation Notice, such stockholder must have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry such proposal. If no Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this Section, the stockholder proposing such business must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of such a Solicitation Notice under this Section.
 
Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.4 (and with respect to nominations of directors, Sections 3.2 and 3.3) of these Bylaws. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any item of proposed business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
The foregoing requirements shall be the exclusive means to submit business proposed to be brought before any annual meeting of stockholders (other than the nomination of a person for election as a
director, which is governed by Section 3.2 of these Bylaws), other than any proposal brought properly under and in compliance with to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors.  In addition to the foregoing requirements with respect to any business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting, each stockholder shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to any such business.  Nothing in this Section 2.4 shall be deemed to affect the rights of stockholders to request the inclusion of proposals in, or the right of the Corporation to omit a proposal from, the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
 
Section 2.5. (a) Written or printed notice of every meeting of stockholders, annual or special, stating the hour, date and place thereof, and the purpose or purposes in general terms for which the meeting is called shall, not less than ten (10) days, or such longer period as shall be provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, or otherwise, and not more than sixty (60) days before such meeting, be served upon or mailed to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat, at the address of such stockholder as it appears upon the stock records of the Corporation or, if such stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices be mailed to some other address, then to the address designated in such request.
 Notice of Meetings; Waiver of Notice.
 
(b) A written waiver of any such notice signed by the person entitled thereto, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not validly called or convened. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice.
 
Section 2.6. . Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Law"), the  Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation under any provision of the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the Corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if: (i) the Corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the Corporation in accordance with such consent; and (ii) such inability becomes known to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or to the transfer agent, or other person responsible for the giving of notice. However, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action. Any notice given pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be deemed given: (i) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (iii) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (iv) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder. An affidavit of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or of the transfer agent o r other agent of the Corporation that the notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
Notice by Electronic Transmission
 
Section 2.7. . An "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved, and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
Definition of Electronic Transmission
 
4
 
Section 2.8. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws and subject to the Delaware Law, the presence, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of stockholders of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued, outstanding and entitled to vote thereat shall be requisite and shall constitute a quorum. If one or more classes of stock are entitled to vote as separate classes upon any question, then, in the case of such class, a quorum for the consideration of such question shall, except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, consist of a majority of the voting power of all stock of that class issued, outstanding and entitled to vote. If a majority of the voting power of shares of capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat or, where a larger quorum is required, such quorum, shall not be represented at any meeting of the stockholders regularly called, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat shall have power to adjourn the meeting to another time, or to another time and place, without notice other than announcement of adjournment at the meeting, and there may be successive adjournments for like cause and in like manner until the requisite amount of shares entitled to vote at such meeting shall be represented; provided, however, that if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, notice of the hour, date and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat. Subject to the require ments of the Delaware Law and the Certificate of Incorporation, on any issue on which one or more classes of stock are entitled to vote separately, no adjournment shall be taken with respect to any class for which a quorum is present unless the Chairman of the meeting otherwise directs. At any meeting held to consider matters which were subject to adjournment for want of a quorum at which the requisite amount of shares entitled to vote shall be represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
 Quorum and Adjournments.
 
Section 2.9. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to the Delaware Law, at each meeting of stockholders, every stockholder of record at the closing of the transfer books, if closed, or on the date set by the Board of Directors for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote which is registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation on such date.
 Votes; Proxies.
 
At each such meeting every stockholder entitled to vote shall be entitled to do so in person, or by proxy appointed by an instrument in writing or as otherwise permitted by law subscribed by such stockholder and bearing a date not more than three (3) years prior to the meeting in question, unless said instrument provides for a longer period during which it is to remain in force. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A proxy may be made irrevocable regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or any interest in the Corporation generally. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing with the Secretary of the Corporation an instrument in writing or as otherwise permitted by law revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date.
 
Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot and, except as otherwise provided by law, need not be conducted by inspectors of election unless so determined by the Chairman of the meeting or by the holders of shares of stock having a majority of the votes which could be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote thereon which are present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting. If it is required or determined that inspectors of election be appointed, the Chairman shall appoint one or more inspectors of election, who shall first take and subscribe an oath or affirmation faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability. The inspector(s) so appointed shall take charge of the polls and, after the balloting, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken. No director or candidate for the office of director shall be appointed as such inspector.
At any meeting at which a quorum is present, a majority of the votes cast by the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereat shall decide any question (other than the election of directors) brought before such meeting, except in any case where a larger vote is required by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws or otherwise. The vote required for the election of directors shall be as set forth in Section 3.1 of these Bylaws.
 
Section 2.10. The Chairman of the Board, if there be one, or in his or her absence the Vice Chairman, or in the absence of a Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, if there be one, or in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or in the absence of the President, a Vice President, shall call meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as chairman thereof. The Secretary of the Corporation, if present, shall act as secretary of all meetings of stockholders, and, in his or her absence, the presiding officer may appoint a secretary.
 Organization.
 
Section 3.1. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted and managed by a Board of Directors, none of whom needs to be a stockholder. Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the number of directors shall be fixed by the Board of Directors (and not by the stockholders) from time to time, in each case by a vote of a majority of the directors in office at the time, regardless of whether such majority constitutes a quorum, provided that no decrease shall affect the term of any director then in office. If the number is not so fixed at any meeting or after an event giving rise to a vacancy, the number shall remain as it stood immediately prior to such meeting or event. The number of directors shall not be less than three.
 General Powers; Number; Term of Office and Election.
 
In an uncontested election of directors, each director of the Corporation shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast by the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors.  In a contested election, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section 3.1: (i) an "uncontested election" is an election in which the number of nominees for director is not greater than the number to be elected; (ii) a "contested election" is an election in which the number of nominees for director is greater than the number to be elected and (iii) a "majority of the votes cast" means that the number of shares voted "for" a director nominee must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director nominee.  Abstentions and broker non-votes are not considered votes cast for purposes of this Section 3.1 and, therefore, are not included in the calculations regarding a "majority of votes cast".
 
Under the Delaware Law, a director holds office until such director's successor is elected and qualified or until such director's earlier resignation or removal.  As a result, following any uncontested election, any incumbent director who was a nominee and who did not receive a majority of the votes cast shall promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Chairman of the Board of Directors for consideration by the Board of Directors. A recommendation on whether or not to accept such resignation offer shall be made by the Nominating and Governance Committee.  In determining whether or not to recommend that the Board of Directors accept any resignation offer, the Nominating and Governance Committee shall be entitled to consider all factors believed relevant by such Committee's members.
 
The Board of Directors will act on the Nominating and Governance Committee's recommendation within 90 days following the date of the certification of the election results and shall publicly disclose its decision and, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the resignation in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  An incumbent director who offers to tender his or her resignation will not participate in the Nominating and Governance Committee's or the Board of Directors' recommendation
or decision, or any deliberations related thereto.  An incumbent director who has offered to tender his or her resignation pursuant to this Section 3.1 shall promptly tender such resignation upon the Board of Directors' acceptance of such offer.
 
If any director's resignation offer is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, or until the director's earlier death, resignation, or removal. If a director's resignation offer is accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Section 3.1, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.5 of these Bylaws or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to this Section 3.1.
 
The Board of Directors shall not nominate for election as director any candidate who has not agreed to tender, promptly following the annual meeting at which he or she is elected as director, an irrevocable resignation that will be effective upon (a) the failure to receive the required number of votes for reelection at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which he or she faces reelection, and (b) acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Directors shall not fill a director vacancy or newly created directorship with any candidate who has not agreed to tender, promptly following his or her appointment to the board, the same form of resignation.
 
Section 3.2. Only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a meeting of stockholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or a committee of Directors appointed by the Board, or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who shall have been a stockholder of record on the record date for such meeting and shall continue to be entitled to vote thereat (including through any adjournment or postponement thereof) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to, or mailed and received at, the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the Anniversary, and (ii) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after the Anniversary, or in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing Directors, not later than the later of (x) the 120
 Nomination of Directors.
th
 day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made.  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.  Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting of the stockholders is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 100 days prior to the Anniversary (or, if the annual meeting is held more than 30 days before or after such Anniversary, at least 100 days prior to such annual meeting), a stockholder's notice required by this Section 3.2 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
 
In order to be effective, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth:
 
(i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (b) the principal
occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person on the date of such stockholder's notice, (d) any information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (e) all Disclosable Interests of such person; (f) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and (g) a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 3.3 and
 
(ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (a) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting, including the class and number of shares of such stock that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder, and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder and any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such nominee(s), (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such nominee(s) on the date of such stockholder's notice, (d) all Disclosable Interests of such stockholder and (e) a Solicitation Notice or a statement that the stockholder does not intend to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a sufficient number of holders of the Corporation's voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees.  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
 
If the stockholder has provided the Corporation with a Solicitation Notice, such stockholder must, at least fifteen days prior to the date of such meeting, have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a percentage of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder to be sufficient to elect the nominee or nominees proposed to be nominated by such stockholder. If no Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this Section 3.2, the stockholder proposing such nomination must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of such a Solicitation Notice under this Section 3.2.
 
The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
The foregoing requirements shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make any nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting of stockholders.  In addition to the foregoing requirements, with respect to any nominations to be made at an annual meeting, each nominating stockholder shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to any such nominations.
Section 3.3. To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, except if nominated by the Board of Directors, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 3.2 of these Bylaws) to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (i) agrees to tender, promptly following the annual meeting at which he or she is elected as director, an irrevocable resignation that will be effective upon (A) the failure to receive the required number of votes for reelection at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which he or she faces reelection, and (B) acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors, (ii) is not and will not become a party to (A) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (B) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (iii) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (iv) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with, applicable law and all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, corporate opportunities, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
Submission of Questionnaire; Representation and Agreement.
 
Section 3.4. Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any director may be removed from office by the stockholders in the manner provided in this Section 3.4. At any special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, the notice of which by the Board of Directors shall state that the removal of a director or directors is among the purposes of the meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors generally, voting together as a single class, may remove such director or directors with or without cause.
Removal.
 
Section 3.5. If any vacancy shall occur among the directors, or if the number of directors shall at any time be increased, such vacancy shall be filled only by the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, by a majority vote of the directors then in office or by the sole remaining director, or, only if no directors then remain, by the stockholders of the Corporation.
Vacancies.
 
Section 3.6. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors, by the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, by the Chief Executive Officer, if there be one, or by the President, and as may be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of any meeting. Meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, by the Chief Executive Officer, if there be one, or the President or a majority of the directors in office by personal oral communication, telephonic oral communication, telecopy or electronic transmission, or written notice, duly served or sent or mailed to each director not less than twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting, except that, if mailed, not less than seventy-two (72) hours before such meeting.
Meetings.
Meetings may be held at any time and place without notice if all the directors are present and do not object to the holding of such meeting for lack of proper notice or if those not present shall, in writing or by telecopy or electronic transmission, waive notice thereof before or after the meeting. A regular meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders at the place where such meeting is held. Regular meetings of the Board may also be held without notice at such time and place as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board. Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or otherwise, neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
 
Section 3.7. Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of such Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of video conference, telephone conference or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Telephone Meetings.
 
Section 3.8. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the vote of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Votes.
 
Section 3.9. Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement of the adjournment at the meeting, and at such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
Quorum and Adjournment.
 
Section 3.10. Directors may receive compensation for their services, as such, and for service on any committee of the Board of Directors, as fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors and for expenses of attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board or any committee thereof. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to preclude a director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation.
 
Section 3.11. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Such consent shall be treated as a vote adopted at a meeting for all purposes. Such consents may be executed in one or more counterparts and not every Director or committee member need sign the same counterpart.
Action by Consent of Directors.
 
Section 3.12. Any director may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors or to the Secretary. The resignation of any director shall take effect upon receipt of notice thereof or at such later time as shall be specified in such notice; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation.
 
Section 4.1. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors in office, establish one or more committees to consist of
Establishment and Powers.
 
one or more Directors of the Corporation. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors or in the Bylaws, shall have and may exercise all of the powers and authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee shall not have any power or authority as to the following:
 
(a)           approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the Delaware Law to be submitted to stockholders for approval; or
 
(b)           adopting, amending or repealing of the Bylaws.
 
Section 4.2. The Board of Directors may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee or for the purpose of any written action by the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member and alternate member or members of a committee, the member or members thereof present at a meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another Director to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
Alternate Members.
 
Section 4.3. Each committee of the Board of Directors shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
Term.
 
Section 4.4. The term "Board of Directors" or "Board," when used in any provision of these Bylaws relating to the organization or procedures of or the manner of taking action by the Board of Directors, shall be construed to include and refer to any executive or other committee of the Board of Directors. Any provision of these Bylaws relating or referring to action to be taken by the Board of Directors or the procedure required therefor shall be satisfied by the taking of corresponding action by a committee of the Board of Directors to the extent authority to take the action has been delegated to the committee pursuant to this Section, except to the extent provided in Section 4.1 of these Bylaws.
Status of Committee Action.
 
Section 5.1. The Board of Directors shall elect a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer, and, in their discretion, may elect a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Controller, and one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Controllers and such other officers as deemed necessary or appropriate. Such officers shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders (or at such other meeting as the Board of Directors determines), and each shall hold office for the term provided by the vote of the Board, except that each will be subject to removal from office in the discretion of the Board as provided herein. The powers and duties of more than one office may be exercised and performed by the same person.
Office.
 
Section 5.2. Any vacancy in any office may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting.
Vacancies.
 
Section 5.3. .  The Chairman of the Board, if any, shall preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors.  The Chairman of the Board, including any Executive Chairman of the Board, will perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by these Bylaws or the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
 
Section 5.4.  Unless the Board shall determine otherwise, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, shall have, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, general charge of
Chief Executive Officer.
the management and direction of the business, affairs and property of the Corporation, and general supervision over its other officers and agents. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
 
Section 5.5. The President shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of President and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and, if there be one, orders of the Chief Executive Officer are carried into effect and shall perform such other executive, supervisory and management functions and duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
President.
 
Section 5.6. Each Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President and Vice President shall have and exercise such powers and shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or to her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Vice Presidents.
 
Section 5.7. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and committees of the Board in books provided for the purpose and shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of law and these Bylaws. The Secretary shall be custodian of the records and of the corporate seal or seals of the Corporation and shall see that the corporate seal is affixed to all documents the execution of which, on behalf of the Corporation under its seal, is duly authorized, and, when the seal is so affixed, he or she may attest the same. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in general, the Secretary shall perform all duties incident to the office of secretary of a corporation, and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
Secretary.
 
Section 5.8. The Assistant Secretaries in order of their seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as from time to time may be assigned by the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries.
 
Section 5.9. The Treasurer shall have charge of and be responsible for all funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation, and shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all monies or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as shall, from time to time, be selected by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer may endorse for collection on behalf of the Corporation checks, notes and other obligations; may sign receipts and vouchers for payments made to the Corporation and may sign checks of the Corporation, singly or jointly with another person as the Board of Directors may authorize, and pay out and dispose of the proceeds under the direction of the Board. The Treasurer shall render to the President and to the Board of Directors, whenever requested, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation; and in general, shall perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer of a corporation, and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board of Directors.
Treasurer.
 
Section 5.10. The Assistant Treasurers in order of their seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as from time to time may be assigned by the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers.
 
Section 5.11. The Controller, if elected, shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incident to the office of a controller of a corporation, and, in the absence of or disability of the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as
Controller.
from time to time may be assigned by the Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President or the Treasurer.
 
Section 5.12. The Assistant Controllers in order of their seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the Controller, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Controller and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as from time to time may be assigned by the Controller.
Assistant Controllers.
 
Section 5.13. The Board of Directors may appoint such subordinate officers as it may deem desirable. Each such officer shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may prescribe. The Board of Directors may, from time to time, authorize any officer to appoint and remove subordinate officers and to prescribe the powers and duties thereof.
Subordinate Officers.
 
Section 5.14. The Board of Directors, or an authorized committee thereof, shall fix the compensation of all officers of the Corporation. It may authorize any officer, upon whom the power of appointing subordinate officers may have been conferred, to fix the compensation of such subordinate officers.
Compensation.
 
Section 5.15. Any officer of the Corporation may be removed, with or without cause, by action of the Board of Directors.
Removal.
 
Section 5.16. The Board of Directors may require any officer of the Corporation to give a bond to the Corporation, conditional upon the faithful performance of his or her duties, with one or more sureties and in such amount as may be satisfactory to the Board of Directors.
Bonds.
 
Section 5.17. Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors (or to a principal officer to whom such officer reports). The resignation of any officer shall take effect upon receipt of notice thereof or at such later time as shall be specified in such notice; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation.
 
Section 6.1. The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation may either be evidenced by a certificate or certificates for shares of stock in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe, or may be uncertificated as provided in Section 6.6 below. The certificates of stock of each class shall be consecutively numbered and signed by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President, an Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or a Vice President and by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, and may be countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, and shall bear the corporate seal or a printed or engraved facsimile thereof. Where any such certificate is signed by a transfer agent or transfer clerk acting on behalf of the Corporation, the signatures of any such Chairman, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or Assistant Secretary may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. In case any officer or officers who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used on, any such certificate or certificates, shall cease to be such officer or officers, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates shall have been delivered by the
Form and Execution of Certificates.
Corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be issued and delivered by the Corporation as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers.
 
In case the corporate seal which has been affixed to, impressed on, or reproduced in any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be the seal of the Corporation before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be issued and delivered by the Corporation as though the seal affixed thereto, impressed thereon or reproduced therein had not ceased to be the seal of the Corporation.
 
Every certificate for shares of stock which are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, or any agreement to which the Corporation is a party, shall have the restriction noted conspicuously on the certificate, and shall also set forth, on the face or back, either the full text of the restriction or a statement of the existence of such restriction and (except if such restriction is imposed by law) a statement that the Corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
 
Every certificate issued when the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class or series of stock shall set forth on its face or back either the full text of the preferences, voting powers, qualifications, and special and relative rights of the shares of each class and series authorized to be issued, or a statement of the existence of such preferences, powers, qualifications and rights, and a statement that the Corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
 
Section 6.2. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his or her attorney lawfully constituted, upon (i) in the case of certificated shares, surrender for cancellation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof or guaranty of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require or (ii) in the case of uncertificated shares, receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of record of such shares or such holder's attorney lawfully constituted. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. It shall be the duty of each stockholder to notify the Corporation of his or her post office address.
Transfer of Shares.
 
Section 6.3. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors (but not the stockholders) may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (a) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting; and (b) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (a) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (b) the record
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors (but not the stockholders) may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
Section 6.4. The stock transfer books of the Corporation may, if deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors, be closed for such length of time not exceeding fifty (50) days as the Board of Directors (but not the stockholders) may determine, preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders or the date for the payment of any dividend or the date for the allotment of rights or the date when any issuance, change, conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, during which time no transfer of stock on the books of the Corporation may be made.
Closing of Transfer Books.
 
Section 6.5. Unless waived in whole or in part by the Board of Directors or any officer acting pursuant to the direction of the Board of Directors, any person requesting the issuance of a new certificate in lieu of an alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate shall (a) give to the Corporation his or her bond of indemnity with an acceptable surety, and (b) satisfy such other requirements as may be imposed by the Corporation. Thereupon, a new share certificate shall be issued to the registered owner or his or her assigns in lieu of the alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate, provided that the request therefor and issuance thereof have been made before the Corporation has notice that such shares have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser.
Lost or Destroyed Certificates.
 
Section 6.6.   Upon the adoption of a resolution by the Board of Directors permitting it, s
Uncertificated Shares.
hares of the Corporation's capital stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holder's name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the Corporation in accordance with a direct registration system approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by any securities exchange on which the stock of the Corporation may from time to time be traded.
 
Section 6.7. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more banks, trust companies or corporations doing a corporate trust business, in good standing under the laws of the United States or any state therein, to act as the Corporation's transfer agent and/or registrar for shares of one or more classes or series of its stock, and the Board may make such other and further regulations, not inconsistent with applicable law, as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of the Corporation's stock and stock certificates.
Transfer Agents and Registrars; Further Regulations.
 
Section 7.1. All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers, or agent or agents, as shall be thereunto authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, which may in its discretion authorize any such signatures to be facsimile.
Execution of Checks, Notes, etc.
 
Section 7.2. Unless the Board of Directors shall have otherwise provided generally or in a specific instance, all contracts, agreements, endorsements, assignments, transfers, stock powers, or other instruments shall be signed by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer. The Board of Directors may, however, in its discretion, require any or all such instruments to be signed by any two or more of such officers, or may permit any or all of such
Execution of Contracts, Assignments, etc.
instruments to be signed by such other officer or officers, agent or agents, as it shall thereunto authorize from time to time.
 
Section 7.3. . The Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any Vice President, and the Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Secretary or any Assistant Treasurer, or any other officer designated by the Board of Directors, may sign on behalf of the Corporation proxies to vote upon shares of stock of other companies standing in the name of the Corporation.
Execution of Proxies
 
The Board of Directors shall determine from time to time whether, and if allowed, to what extent and at what time and places and under what conditions and regulations, the accounts and books of the Corporation (except such as may by law be specifically open to inspection) or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders, and no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account or book or document of the Corporation, except as conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, unless and until authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders of the Corporation.
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined from time to time by vote of the Board of Directors.
 
The seal of the Corporation shall, subject to alteration by the Board of Directors, consist of a flat-faced circular die with the word "Delaware", together with the name of the Corporation and the year of incorporation, cut or engraved thereon.
 
These Bylaws may be altered, amended, changed or repealed and new Bylaws adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors, in either case at any meeting called for that purpose at which a quorum shall be present. Any Bylaw, whether made, altered, amended, changed or repealed by the stockholders or the Board of Directors, may be repealed, amended, changed, further amended, changed, repealed or reinstated, as the case may be, either by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors as above provided.
 
Section 12.1. . The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is a party or threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he or she is or was, or has agreed to become, a director or officer
Actions, Suits and Proceedings Other than by or in the Right of the Corporation
of the Corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, partner, employee or trustee of, or in a similar capacity with, another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity (including any employee benefit plan) (all such persons being referred to hereafter as an "Indemnitee"), or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, shall not create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not have reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
 
Section 12.2. . The Corporation shall indemnify any Indemnitee who was or is a party to or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was, or has agreed to become, a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, partner, employee or trustee of, or in a similar capacity with, another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including any employee benefit plan), or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees) and, to the extent permitted by law, amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, except that no indemnification shall be made under this Section 12.2 in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which the Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation, unless, and only to the extent, that the Court of Chancery of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of such liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, the Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses (including attorneys' fees) which the Court of Chancery of Delaware or such other court shall deem proper.
Actions or Suits by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
Section 12.3. Any indemnification under Section 12.1 or 12.2 (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the person requesting such is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 12.1 or 12.2, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made (a) by the Board of Directors, by a majority vote of directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding (whether or not a quorum), (b) by a committee of such directors designated by majority vote of such directors (whether or not a quorum), (c) if there are no disinterested directors or if a majority of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel (who may be regular legal counsel to the corporation) in a written opinion, or (d) by the stockholders. To the extent, however, that any person referred to in Section 12.1 or 12.2 has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to therein or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
Definition of Entitlement;
Success on the Merits.
 
Section 12.4. Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by an officer or director of the Corporation in defending any pending or threatened civil, criminal, administrative or
Expense Advance.
investigative action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding as authorized by the Board of Directors in the manner provided in Section 12.3 of this Article upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such officer or director to repay such amount, if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article.
 
Section 12.5. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the other Sections of this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any person seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation or any statute, bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. The provisions of this Article XII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 12.1 or 12.2 but whom the Corporation has the power to indemnify under applicable law or otherwise.
Nonexclusively.
 
Section 12.6. The Corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity, against any liability asserted against and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the obligation to indemnify such person against liability under this Article or the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of Section 145 of the Delaware Law.
Insurance.
 
Section 12.7. The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify any person who was or is serving at its request as a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as indemnification from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity or from insurance.
Other Indemnification.
 
Section 12.8. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Continuation of Indemnification.
 
Section 12.9. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article XII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer (or his or her heirs, executors or personal or legal representative) or advance expenses in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors.
Limitation on Indemnification.
 
Section 12.10. The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article XII to Directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents.
 
Section 12.11. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which an Indemnitee seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any law (common or statutory), agreement or vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in the Indemnitee's official capacity and as to action in any other capacity while holding office for the Corporation, and shall continue as to an
Other Rights
Indemnitee who has ceased to be a director or officer, and shall inure to the benefit of the estate, heirs, executors and administrators of the Indemnitee. Nothing contained in this Article shall be deemed to prohibit, and the Corporation is specifically authorized to enter into, agreements with officers and directors providing indemnification rights and procedures different from those set forth in this Article. In addition, the Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by its Board of Directors, grant indemnification rights to other employees or agents of the Corporation or other persons serving the Corporation and such rights may be equivalent to, or greater or less than, those set forth in this Article.
 
Section 12.13. The provisions of this Article XII relating to the limitation of Directors' liability, to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses shall constitute a contract between the Corporation and each of its Directors and officers which may be modified as to any Director or officer in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the date of any such modification only with that person's consent or as specifically provided in this Section. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Bylaws relating to their amendment generally, any repeal or amendment of this Article XII which is adverse to any Director or officer shall apply to such Director or officer only on a prospective basis, and shall not reduce any limitation on the personal liability of a director of the Corporation, or limit the rights of an Indemnitee to indemnification or to the advancement of expenses with respect to any action or failure to act occurring prior to the time of such repeal or amendment. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Bylaws, no repeal or amendment of these Bylaws shall affect any or all of this Article so as either to reduce the limitation of directors' liability or limit indemnification or the advancement of expenses in any manner unless adopted by (a) the unanimous vote of the Directors of the Corporation then serving, or (b) the affirmative vote of stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of the votes that all stockholders are entitled to cast in the election of Directors; provided that no such amendment shall have retroactive effect inconsistent with the preceding sentence.
Amendment.
 
Section 12.14. . If this Article or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Indemnitee as to any expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or investigation, whether civil, criminal or administrative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Savings Clause
 
Section 12.15. . Terms used herein and defined in Section 145(h) and Section 145(i) of the Delaware Law shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in such Section 145(h) and Section 145(i).
Definitions
 
Section 13.1. All words, terms and provisions of these Bylaws shall be interpreted and defined by and in accordance with the Delaware Law. If any provision of these Bylaws shall be inconsistent with any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, the provision of the Certificate of Incorporation shall prevail. Where any provision of these Bylaws refers to a rule or process as set forth in these Bylaws, the reference shall be construed to include and be satisfied by any rule or process on the same subject set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Interpretation.
 
Section 13.2. The provisions of these Bylaws are independent of and separable from each other, and no provision shall be affected or rendered invalid or unenforceable by virtue of the fact that for any reason any other or others of them may be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part.
Separability.
Section 14.1. Any determination involving interpretation or application of these Bylaws made in good faith by the Board of Directors shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties in interest.
Effect of Board Determinations.

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
Section 1.1. The registered office of the Corporation shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware and the name of the resident agent in charge thereof shall be Corporation Service Company.
Registered Office.
 
Section 1.2. The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the "Board of Directors" or the "Board") may from time to time appoint or the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices.
 
Section 1.3. The books of the Corporation may be kept within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Books.
 
Section 2.1. All meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors (or the Chairman in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors) may designate from time to time.
Time and Place of Meetings.
 
Section 2.2. The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting.
Annual Meeting.
 
Section 2.3. Special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, the President (if there shall be no Chief Executive Officer) or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the Board of Directors.
Special Meetings.
 
Section 2.4. At an annual or special meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be acted upon, as shall have been properly brought before such annual or special meeting of stockholders. To be properly brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders, business must be (i) in the case of a special meeting, specified in the notice of the special meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by the Board of Directors, or (ii) in the case of an annual meeting, specified in the notice of the annual meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by a stockholder who shall have been a stockholder of record on the record date for such meeting and shall continue to be entitled to vote thereat (including through any adjournment or postponement thereof).  Stockholders shall not be permitted to propose business to be brought before a special meeting of the stockholders, and the only matters that may be brought before a special meeting are
Introduction of Business At a Meeting of Stockholders.
 
the matters specified in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the person calling the meeting pursuant to Section 2.3 of these Bylaws.  Stockholders seeking to nominate persons for election to the Board of Directors must comply with Section 3.2 and Section 3.3 of these Bylaws and this Section 2.4 shall not be applicable to nominations except as expressly provided in Section 3.2.  For business (other than the nomination of a person for election as a director, which is governed by Section 3.2 of these Bylaws) to be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder notice must be delivered to, or mailed and received at, the principal executive offices of the Corporation (A) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 90 nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders was held (the "Anniversary"), and (B) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, not later than the later of (x) the 120
th
 day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made.  For purposes of these Bylaws (including Section 3.2), "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
In order to be effective, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth:
 
(i) as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before an annual meeting of stockholders,  a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and, if a specific action is to be proposed, the text of the resolution(s) which the proposing stockholder proposes that the stockholders adopt; and
 
(ii) as to the stockholder proposing the matter (a) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting, including the class and number of shares of such stock that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder, and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to bring the business specified in the notice before the meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business and any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such proposal, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by any stockholders known by the proposing stockholder to be supporting such proposal on the date of such stockholder's notice, (d) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to such business between or among the stockholder and any of its affiliates or associates, and any others (including their names) acting in concert with any of the foregoing, and a representation that the stockholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed, (e) any (1) derivative, swap or other transaction or series of transactions engaged in, directly or indirectly, by the stockholder, the purpose or effect of which is to give the stockholder economic risk similar to ownership of shares of any class or series of the Corporation, including due to the fact that the value of such derivative, swap or other transactions are determined by reference to the price, value or volatility of any shares of any class or series of the Corporation, or which derivative, swap or other transactions provide, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any increase in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the Corporation ("Synthetic Equity Interests"), which Synthetic Equity Interests shall be disclosed without regard to whether (x) the derivative, swap or other transactions convey any voting rights in such shares to
 
the stockholder, (y) the derivative, swap or other transactions are required to be, or are capable of being, settled through delivery of such shares or (z) the stockholder may have entered into other transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such derivative, swap or other transactions, (2) any proxy (other than a revocable proxy or consent given in response to a solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act by way of a solicitation statement filed on Schedule 14A), agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship pursuant to which the stockholder has or shares a right to vote any shares of any class or series of the Corporation, (3) any agreement, arrangement, understanding or relationship, including any repurchase or similar so-called "stock borrowing" agreement or arrangement, engaged in, directly or indirectly, by the stockholder, the purpose or effect of which is to mitigate loss to, reduce the economic risk (of ownership or otherwise) of shares of any class or series of the Corporation by, manage the risk of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, the stockholder with respect to the shares of any class or series of the Corporation, or which provides, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any decrease in the price or value of the shares of any class or series of the Corporation ("Short Interests"), (4) any rights to dividends on the shares of any class or series of the Corporation owned beneficially by the stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (5) any performance related fees (other than an asset based fee) that the stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the Corporation, or any Synthetic Equity Interests or Short Interests, if any, (6) any other information relating to the stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies or consents by the stockholder in support of the business proposed to be brought before the meeting pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act (the disclosures to be made pursuant to the foregoing clauses (d) and (e)(1) through (6), the "Disclosable Interests"); and a representation that the stockholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such Disclosable Interests in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed; provided, however, that Disclosable Interests shall not include any such disclosures with respect to the ordinary course business activities of any broker, dealer, commercial bank, trust company or other nominee who is proposing business solely as a result of being the stockholder directed to prepare and submit the notice required by these Bylaws on behalf of a beneficial owner; (f) whether such stockholder intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of, in the case of a proposal, at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under these Bylaws and applicable law to carry the proposal (an affirmative statement of such intent, a "Solicitation Notice"), and (g) any material interest of the stockholder in such proposal.
 
If the stockholder has provided the Corporation with a Solicitation Notice, such stockholder must have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry such proposal. If no Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this Section, the stockholder proposing such business must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of such a Solicitation Notice under this Section.
 
Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.4 (and with respect to nominations of directors, Sections 3.2 and 3.3) of these Bylaws. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any item of proposed business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
The foregoing requirements shall be the exclusive means to submit business proposed to be brought before any annual meeting of stockholders (other than the nomination of a person for election as a
 
director, which is governed by Section 3.2 of these Bylaws), other than any proposal brought properly under and in compliance with to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors.  In addition to the foregoing requirements with respect to any business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting, each stockholder shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to any such business.  Nothing in this Section 2.4 shall be deemed to affect the rights of stockholders to request the inclusion of proposals in, or the right of the Corporation to omit a proposal from, the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
 
Section 2.5. (a) Written or printed notice of every meeting of stockholders, annual or special, stating the hour, date and place thereof, and the purpose or purposes in general terms for which the meeting is called shall, not less than ten (10) days, or such longer period as shall be provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, or otherwise, and not more than sixty (60) days before such meeting, be served upon or mailed to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat, at the address of such stockholder as it appears upon the stock records of the Corporation or, if such stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices be mailed to some other address, then to the address designated in such request.
Notice of Meetings; Waiver of Notice.
 
(b) A written waiver of any such notice signed by the person entitled thereto, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not validly called or convened. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice.
 
Section 2.6. . Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Law"), the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any notice to stockholders given by the Corporation under any provision of the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the Corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if: (i) the Corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the Corporation in accordance with such consent; and (ii) such i nability becomes known to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or to the transfer agent, or other person responsible for the giving of notice. However, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action. Any notice given pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be deemed given: (i) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (ii) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (iii) if by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (iv) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder. An affidavit of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the Corporatio n that the notice has been given by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
Notice by Electronic Transmission
 
Section 2.7. . An "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved, and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
Definition of Electronic Transmission
 
 
Section 2.8. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws and subject to the Delaware Law, the presence, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of stockholders of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued, outstanding and entitled to vote thereat shall be requisite and shall constitute a quorum. If one or more classes of stock are entitled to vote as separate classes upon any question, then, in the case of such class, a quorum for the consideration of such question shall, except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporati on, consist of a majority of the voting power of all stock of that class issued, outstanding and entitled to vote. If a majority of the voting power of shares of capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat or, where a larger quorum is required, such quorum, shall not be represented at any meeting of the stockholders regularly called, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares present or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat shall have power to adjourn the meeting to another time, or to another time and place, without notice other than announcement of adjournment at the meeting, and there may be successive adjournments for like cause and in like manner until the requisite amount of shares entitled to vote at such meeting shall be represented; provided, however, that if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, notice of the hour, date and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat. Su bject to the requirements of the Delaware Law and the Certificate of Incorporation, on any issue on which one or more classes of stock are entitled to vote separately, no adjournment shall be taken with respect to any class for which a quorum is present unless the Chairman of the meeting otherwise directs. At any meeting held to consider matters which were subject to adjournment for want of a quorum at which the requisite amount of shares entitled to vote shall be represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
Quorum and Adjournments.
 
Section 2.9. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to the Delaware Law, at each meeting of stockholders, every stockholder of record at the closing of the transfer books, if closed, or on the date set by the Board of Directors for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote which is registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation on such date.
Votes; Proxies.
 
At each such meeting every stockholder entitled to vote shall be entitled to do so in person, or by proxy appointed by an instrument in writing or as otherwise permitted by law subscribed by such stockholder and bearing a date not more than three (3) years prior to the meeting in question, unless said instrument provides for a longer period during which it is to remain in force. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A proxy may be made irrevocable regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or any interest in the Corporation generally. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing with the Secretary of the Corporation an instrument in writing or as otherwise permitted by law revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date.
 
Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot and, except as otherwise provided by law, need not be conducted by inspectors of election unless so determined by the Chairman of the meeting or by the holders of shares of stock having a majority of the votes which could be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote thereon which are present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting. If it is required or determined that inspectors of election be appointed, the Chairman shall appoint one or more inspectors of election, who shall first take and subscribe an oath or affirmation faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability. The inspector(s) so appointed shall take charge of the polls and, after the balloting, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken. No director or candidate for the office of director shall be appointed as such inspector.
 
At any meeting at which a quorum is present, a question, except in any case where a larger vote is required by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws or otherwise.
plurality of the votes properly cast for election to the Board of Directors shall be sufficient to elect a candidate to the Board of Directors, and a majority of the votes properly cast upon any other question shall decide the
majority of the votes cast by the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereat shall decide any
(other than the election of directors) brought before such meeting
,
The vote required for the election of directors shall be as set forth in Section 3.1 of these Bylaws.
 
Section 2.10. The Chairman of the Board, if there be one, or in his or her absence the Vice Chairman, or in the absence of a Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, if there be one, or in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or in the absence of the President, a Vice President, shall call meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as chairman thereof. The Secretary of the Corporation, if present, shall act as secretary of all meetings of stockholders, and, in his or her absence, the presiding officer may appoint a secretary.
Organization.
 
Section 3.1. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted and managed by a Board of Directors, none of whom needs to be a stockholder. Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the number of directors shall be fixed by the Board of Directors (and not by the stockholders) from time to time, in each case by a vote of a majority of the directors in office at the time, regardless of whether such majority constitutes a quorum, provided that no decrease shall affect the term of any director then in office. If the number is not so fixed at any meeting or after an event giving rise to a vacancy, the number shall remain as it stood immediately prior to such meeting or event. The number of directors shall not be less than three.
General Powers; Number Term of Office.
and
;
and Election
 
In an uncontested election of directors, each director of the Corporation shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast by the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors.  In a contested election, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section 3.1: (i) an "uncontested election" is an election in which the number of nominees for director is not greater than the number to be elected; (ii) a "contested election" is an election in which the number of nominees for director is greater than the number to be elected and (iii) a "majority of the votes cast" means that the number of shares voted "for" a director nominee must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director nominee.  Abstentions and broker non-votes are not considered votes cast for purposes of this Section 3.1 and, therefore, are not included in the calculations regarding a "majority of votes cast".
 
Under the Delaware Law, a director holds office until such director's successor is elected and qualified or until such director's earlier resignation or removal.  As a result, following any uncontested election, any incumbent director who was a nominee and who did not receive a majority of the votes cast shall promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Chairman of the Board of Directors for consideration by the Board of Directors. A recommendation on whether or not to accept such resignation offer shall be made by the Nominating and Governance Committee.  In determining whether or not to recommend that the Board of Directors accept any resignation offer, the Nominating and Governance Committee shall be entitled to consider all factors believed relevant by such Committee's members.
 
The Board of Directors will act on the Nominating and Governance Committee's recommendation within 90 days following the date of the certification of the election results and shall publicly disclose its decision and, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the resignation in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  An incumbent director who offers to tender his or her resignation will not participate in the Nominating and Governance Committee's or the Board of Directors' recommendation or decision, or any deliberations related thereto.  An incumbent director who has offered to tender his or her resignation pursuant to this Section 3.1 shall promptly tender such resignation upon the Board of Directors' acceptance of such offer.
 
If any director's resignation offer is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, or until the director's earlier death, resignation, or removal. If a director's resignation offer is accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Section 3.1, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.5 of these Bylaws or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to this Section 3.1.
 
The Board of Directors shall not nominate for election as director any candidate who has not agreed to tender, promptly following the annual meeting at which he or she is elected as director, an irrevocable resignation that will be effective upon (a) the failure to receive the required number of votes for reelection at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which he or she faces reelection, and (b) acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Directors shall not fill a director vacancy or newly created directorship with any candidate who has not agreed to tender, promptly following his or her appointment to the board, the same form of resignation.
 
Section 3.2. Only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a meeting of stockholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or a committee of Directors appointed by the Board, or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who shall have been a stockholder of record on the record date for such meeting and shall continue to be entitled to vote thereat (including through any adjournment or postponement thereof) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to, or mailed and received at, the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the Anniversary, and (ii) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after the Anniversary, or in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing Directors, not later than the later of (x) the 120
Nomination of Directors.
th
 day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made.  In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.  Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting of the stockholders is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 100 days prior to the Anniversary (or, if the annual meeting is held more than 30 days before or after such Anniversary, at least 100 days prior to such annual meeting), a stockholder's notice required by this Section 3.2 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the
 
Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
 
In order to be effective, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth:
 
(i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person on the date of such stockholder's notice, (d) any information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (e) all Disclosable Interests of such person; (f) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and (g) a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 3.3 and
 
(ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (a) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting, including the class and number of shares of such stock that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder, and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder and any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such nominee(s), (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such nominee(s) on the date of such stockholder's notice, (d) all Disclosable Interests of such stockholder and (e) a Solicitation Notice or a statement that the stockholder does not intend to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a sufficient number of holders of the Corporation's voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees.  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
 
If the stockholder has provided the Corporation with a Solicitation Notice, such stockholder must, at least fifteen days prior to the date of such meeting, have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a percentage of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder to be sufficient to elect the nominee or nominees proposed to be nominated by such stockholder. If no Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this Section 3.2, the stockholder proposing such nomination must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of such a Solicitation Notice under this Section 3.2.
 
The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
The foregoing requirements shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make any nomination of a person or persons for election to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting of stockholders.  In addition to the foregoing requirements, with respect to any nominations to be made at an annual meeting, each nominating stockholder shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act with respect to any such nominations.
 
Section 3.3. To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, except if nominated by the Board of Directors, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 3.2 of these Bylaws) to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (i) is not and will not become a party to (A) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (B) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, () is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and () in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with, applicable law and all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, corporate opportunities, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
Submission of Questionnaire; Representation and Agreement.
agrees to tender, promptly following the annual meeting at which he or she is elected as director, an irrevocable resignation that will be effective upon (A) the failure to receive the required number of votes for reelection at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which he or she faces reelection, and (B) acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors, (ii) 
ii
iii
iii
iv
 
Section 3.4. Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any director may be removed from office by the stockholders in the manner provided in this Section 3.4. At any special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, the notice of which by the Board of Directors shall state that the removal of a director or directors is among the purposes of the meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors generally, voting together as a single class, may remove such director or directors with or without cause.
Removal.
 
Section 3.5. If any vacancy shall occur among the directors, or if the number of directors shall at any time be increased, such vacancy shall be filled only by the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, by a majority vote of the directors then in office or by the sole remaining director, or, only if no directors then remain, by the stockholders of the Corporation.
Vacancies.
 
Section 3.6. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors, by the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, by the Chief Executive Officer, if there be one, or by the President, and as may be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of any meeting. Meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board, if there be one, by the Chief Executive Officer, if there be one, or the President or a majority of the directors in office by personal oral communication, telephonic oral communication, telecopy or electronic transmission, or written notice, duly served or sent or mailed to each director not less than twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting, except that, if mailed, not less than seventy-two (72) hours before such meeting.
Meetings.
 
Meetings may be held at any time and place without notice if all the directors are present and do not object to the holding of such meeting for lack of proper notice or if those not present shall, in writing or by telecopy or electronic transmission, waive notice thereof before or after the meeting. A regular meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders at the place where such meeting is held. Regular meetings of the Board may also be held without notice at such time and place as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board. Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or otherwise, neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
 
Section 3.7. Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of such Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of video conference, telephone conference or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Telephone Meetings.
 
Section 3.8. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the vote of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Votes.
 
Section 3.9. Except as otherwise provided by the Delaware Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement of the adjournment at the meeting, and at such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
Quorum and Adjournment.
 
Section 3.10. Directors may receive compensation for their services, as such, and for service on any committee of the Board of Directors, as fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors and for expenses of attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board or any committee thereof. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to preclude a director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation.
 
Section 3.11. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Such consent shall be treated as a vote adopted at a meeting for all purposes. Such consents may be executed in one or more counterparts and not every Director or committee member need sign the same counterpart.
Action by Consent of Directors.
 
 
Section 3.12. Any director may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors or to the Secretary. The resignation of any director shall take effect upon receipt of notice thereof or at such later time as shall be specified in such notice; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation.
 
Section 4.1. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors in office, establish one or more committees to consist of one or more Directors of the Corporation. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors or in the Bylaws, shall have and may exercise all of the powers and authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee shall not have any power or authority as to the following:
Establishment and Powers.
 
(a)           approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the Delaware Law to be submitted to stockholders for approval; or
 
(b)           adopting, amending or repealing of the Bylaws.
 
Section 4.2. The Board of Directors may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee or for the purpose of any written action by the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member and alternate member or members of a committee, the member or members thereof present at a meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another Director to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
Alternate Members.
 
Section 4.3. Each committee of the Board of Directors shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
Term.
 
Section 4.4. The term "Board of Directors" or "Board," when used in any provision of these Bylaws relating to the organization or procedures of or the manner of taking action by the Board of Directors, shall be construed to include and refer to any executive or other committee of the Board of Directors. Any provision of these Bylaws relating or referring to action to be taken by the Board of Directors or the procedure required therefor shall be satisfied by the taking of corresponding action by a committee of the Board of Directors to the extent authority to take the action has been delegated to the committee pursuant to this Section, except to the extent provided in Section 4.1 of these Bylaws.
Status of Committee Action.
, except that the executive committee, if any, shall have authority to act in all matters in which the Board of Directors is empowered to act whenever it is impracticable to hold a meeting of the Board of Directors
 
Section 5.1. The Board of Directors shall elect a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer, and, in their discretion, may elect a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Controller, and one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Controllers and such other officers as deemed necessary or appropriate. Such officers shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders (or at such other meeting as the Board of Directors determines), and each shall hold office for the term provided by the vote of the Board, except
Office.
 
 
that each will be subject to removal from office in the discretion of the Board as provided herein. The powers and duties of more than one office may be exercised and performed by the same person.
 
Section 5.2. Any vacancy in any office may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting.
Vacancies.
 
Section 5.3. .  The Chairman of the Board, if any, shall preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors.  The Chairman of the Board, including any Executive Chairman of the Board, will perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by these Bylaws or the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
 
Section 5.4.  Unless the Board shall determine otherwise, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, shall have, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, general charge of the management and direction of the business, affairs and property of the Corporation, and general supervision over its other officers and agents. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
Chief Executive Officer.
 
Section 5.5. The President shall, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of President and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and, if there be one, orders of the Chief Executive Officer are carried into effect and shall perform such other executive, supervisory and management functions and duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
President.
 
Section 5.6. Each Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President and Vice President shall have and exercise such powers and shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or to her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Vice Presidents.
 
Section 5.7. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and committees of the Board in books provided for the purpose and shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of law and these Bylaws. The Secretary shall be custodian of the records and of the corporate seal or seals of the Corporation and shall see that the corporate seal is affixed to all documents the execution of which, on behalf of the Corporation under its seal, is duly authorized, and, when the seal is so affixed, he or she may attest the same. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in general, the Secretary shall perform all duties incident to the office of secretary of a corporation, and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
Secretary.
 
Section 5.8. The Assistant Secretaries in order of their seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as from time to time may be assigned by the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries.
 
Section 5.9. The Treasurer shall have charge of and be responsible for all funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation, and shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all monies or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as shall, from time to time, be selected by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer may endorse for collection on behalf of the Corporation checks, notes and other obligations; may sign receipts and vouchers for payments made to the Corporation and may sign checks of the Corporation, singly or jointly with another person as the Board of Directors may authorize, and pay out and dispose of the proceeds under the direction of the Board. The Treasurer shall render to the President and to the Board of Directors,
Treasurer.
 
 
whenever requested, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation; and in general, shall perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer of a corporation, and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 5.10. The Assistant Treasurers in order of their seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as from time to time may be assigned by the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers.
 
Section 5.11. The Controller, if elected, shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incident to the office of a controller of a corporation, and, in the absence of or disability of the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as from time to time may be assigned by the Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President or the Treasurer.
Controller.
 
Section 5.12. The Assistant Controllers in order of their seniority shall, in the absence or disability of the Controller, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Controller and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or as from time to time may be assigned by the Controller.
Assistant Controllers.
 
Section 5.13. The Board of Directors may appoint such subordinate officers as it may deem desirable. Each such officer shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as the Board of Directors may prescribe. The Board of Directors may, from time to time, authorize any officer to appoint and remove subordinate officers and to prescribe the powers and duties thereof.
Subordinate Officers.
 
Section 5.14. The Board of Directors, or an authorized committee thereof, shall fix the compensation of all officers of the Corporation. It may authorize any officer, upon whom the power of appointing subordinate officers may have been conferred, to fix the compensation of such subordinate officers.
Compensation.
 
Section 5.15. Any officer of the Corporation may be removed, with or without cause, by action of the Board of Directors.
Removal.
 
Section 5.16. The Board of Directors may require any officer of the Corporation to give a bond to the Corporation, conditional upon the faithful performance of his or her duties, with one or more sureties and in such amount as may be satisfactory to the Board of Directors.
Bonds.
 
Section 5.17. Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors (or to a principal officer to whom such officer reports). The resignation of any officer shall take effect upon receipt of notice thereof or at such later time as shall be specified in such notice; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation.
 
Section 6.1. The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation may either be evidenced by a certificate or certificates for shares of stock in such form as the Board of
Form and Execution of Certificates.
 
 
Directors may from time to time prescribe, or may be uncertificated as provided in Section 6.6 below. The certificates of stock of each class shall be consecutively numbered and signed by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President, an Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or a Vice President and by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, and may be countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, and shall bear the corporate seal or a printed or engraved facsimile thereof. Where any such certificate is signed by a transfer agent or transfer clerk acting on behalf of the Corporation, the signatures of any such Chairman, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or Assistant Secretary may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. In case any officer or officers who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used on, any such certificate or certificates, shall cease to be such officer or officers, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates shall have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be issued and delivered by the Corporation as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers.
 
In case the corporate seal which has been affixed to, impressed on, or reproduced in any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be the seal of the Corporation before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be issued and delivered by the Corporation as though the seal affixed thereto, impressed thereon or reproduced therein had not ceased to be the seal of the Corporation.
 
Every certificate for shares of stock which are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to law, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, or any agreement to which the Corporation is a party, shall have the restriction noted conspicuously on the certificate, and shall also set forth, on the face or back, either the full text of the restriction or a statement of the existence of such restriction and (except if such restriction is imposed by law) a statement that the Corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
 
Every certificate issued when the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class or series of stock shall set forth on its face or back either the full text of the preferences, voting powers, qualifications, and special and relative rights of the shares of each class and series authorized to be issued, or a statement of the existence of such preferences, powers, qualifications and rights, and a statement that the Corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
 
Section 6.2. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his or her attorney lawfully constituted, upon (i) in the case of certificated shares, surrender for cancellation of certificates for the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof or guaranty of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require or (ii) in the case of uncertificated shares, receipt of proper transfer instructions from the holder of record of such shares or such holder's attorney lawfully constituted. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. It shall be the duty of each stockholder to notify the Corporation of his or her post office address.
Transfer of Shares.
 
 
Section 6.3. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors (but not the stockholders) may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (a) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting; and (b) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (a) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (b) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors (but not the stockholders) may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
 
Section 6.4. The stock transfer books of the Corporation may, if deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors, be closed for such length of time not exceeding fifty (50) days as the Board of Directors (but not the stockholders) may determine, preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders or the date for the payment of any dividend or the date for the allotment of rights or the date when any issuance, change, conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, during which time no transfer of stock on the books of the Corporation may be made.
Closing of Transfer Books.
 
Section 6.5. Unless waived in whole or in part by the Board of Directors or any officer acting pursuant to the direction of the Board of Directors, any person requesting the issuance of a new certificate in lieu of an alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate shall (a) give to the Corporation his or her bond of indemnity with an acceptable surety, and (b) satisfy such other requirements as may be imposed by the Corporation. Thereupon, a new share certificate shall be issued to the registered owner or his or her assigns in lieu of the alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate, provided that the request therefor and issuance thereof have been made before the Corporation has notice that such shares have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser.
Lost or Destroyed Certificates.
 
Section 6.6.   Upon the adoption of a resolution by the Board of Directors permitting it, shares of the Corporation's capital stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holder's name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the Corporation in accordance with a direct registration system approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by any securities exchange on which the stock of the Corporation may from time to time be traded.
Uncertificated Shares.
 
Section 6.7. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more banks, trust companies or corporations doing a corporate trust business, in good standing under the laws of the United States or any state therein, to act as the Corporation's transfer agent and/or registrar for shares of one or more classes or series of its stock, and the Board may make such other and further regulations, not inconsistent with applicable law, as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of the Corporation's stock and stock certificates.
Transfer Agents and Registrars; Further Regulations.
 
Section 7.1. All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers, or agent or agents, as shall be thereunto authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, which may in its discretion authorize any such signatures to be facsimile.
Execution of Checks, Notes, etc.
 
Section 7.2. Unless the Board of Directors shall have otherwise provided generally or in a specific instance, all contracts, agreements, endorsements, assignments, transfers, stock powers, or other instruments shall be signed by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer. The Board of Directors may, however, in its discretion, require any or all such instruments to be signed by any two or more of such officers, or may permit any or all of such instruments to be signed by such other officer or officers, agent or agents, as it shall thereunto authorize from time to time.
Execution of Contracts, Assignments, etc.
 
Section 7.3. . The Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any Vice President, and the Secretary, the Treasurer, any Assistant Secretary or any Assistant Treasurer, or any other officer designated by the Board of Directors, may sign on behalf of the Corporation proxies to vote upon shares of stock of other companies standing in the name of the Corporation.
Execution of Proxies
 
The Board of Directors shall determine from time to time whether, and if allowed, to what extent and at what time and places and under what conditions and regulations, the accounts and books of the Corporation (except such as may by law be specifically open to inspection) or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders, and no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account or book or document of the Corporation, except as conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, unless and until authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders of the Corporation.
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined from time to time by vote of the Board of Directors.
 
The seal of the Corporation shall, subject to alteration by the Board of Directors, consist of a flat-faced circular die with the word "Delaware", together with the name of the Corporation and the year of incorporation, cut or engraved thereon.
 
These Bylaws may be altered, amended, changed or repealed and new Bylaws adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors, in either case at any meeting called for that purpose at which a quorum shall be present. Any Bylaw, whether made, altered, amended, changed or repealed by the
 
 
stockholders or the Board of Directors, may be repealed, amended, changed, further amended, changed, repealed or reinstated, as the case may be, either by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors as above provided.
 
Section 12.1. . The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is a party or threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he or she is or was, or has agreed to become, a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, partner, employee or trustee of, or in a similar capacity with, another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity (including any employee benefit plan) (all such persons being referred to hereafter as an "Indemnitee"), or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, shall not create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not have reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
Actions, Suits and Proceedings Other than by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
Section 12.2. . The Corporation shall indemnify any Indemnitee who was or is a party to or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was, or has agreed to become, a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, partner, employee or trustee of, or in a similar capacity with, another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including any employee benefit plan), or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees) and, to the extent permitted by law, amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Corporation, except that no indemnification shall be made under this Section 12.2 in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which the Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation, unless, and only to the extent, that the Court of Chancery of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of such liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, the Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses (including attorneys' fees) which the Court of Chancery of Delaware or such other court shall deem proper.
Actions or Suits by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
Section 12.3. Any indemnification under Section 12.1 or 12.2 (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the person requesting such is proper in the
Definition of Entitlement;
Success on the Merits.
 
 
circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 12.1 or 12.2, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made (a) by the Board of Directors, by a majority vote of directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding (whether or not a quorum), (b) by a committee of such directors designated by majority vote of such directors (whether or not a quorum), (c) if there are no disinterested directors or if a majority of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel (who may be regular legal counsel to the corporation) in a written opinion, or (d) by the stockholders. To the extent, however, that any person referred to in Section 12.1 or 12.2 has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to therein or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
 
Section 12.4. Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by an officer or director of the Corporation in defending any pending or threatened civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding as authorized by the Board of Directors in the manner provided in Section 12.3 of this Article upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such officer or director to repay such amount, if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article.
Expense Advance.
 
Section 12.5. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the other Sections of this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any person seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation or any statute, bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. The provisions of this Article XII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 12.1 or 12.2 but whom the Corporation has the power to indemnify under applicable law or otherwise.
Nonexclusively.
 
Section 12.6. The Corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity, against any liability asserted against and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the obligation to indemnify such person against liability under this Article or the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of Section 145 of the Delaware Law.
Insurance.
 
Section 12.7. The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify any person who was or is serving at its request as a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as indemnification from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or nonprofit entity or from insurance.
Other Indemnification.
 
Section 12.8. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Continuation of Indemnification.
 
Section 12.9. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article XII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer (or his or her heirs, executors or personal or legal
Limitation on Indemnification.
 
 
representative) or advance expenses in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 12.10. The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article XII to Directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents.
 
Section 12.11. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which an Indemnitee seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any law (common or statutory), agreement or vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in the Indemnitee's official capacity and as to action in any other capacity while holding office for the Corporation, and shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to be a director or officer, and shall inure to the benefit of the estate, heirs, executors and administrators of the Indemnitee. Nothing contained in this Article shall be deemed to prohibit, and the Corporation is specifically authorized to enter into, agreements with officers and directors providing indemnification rights and procedures different from those set forth in this Article. In addition, the Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by its Board of Directors, grant indemnification rights to other employees or agents of the Corporation or other persons serving the Corporation and such rights may be equivalent to, or greater or less than, those set forth in this Article.
Other Rights
 
Section 12.13. The provisions of this Article XII relating to the limitation of Directors' liability, to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses shall constitute a contract between the Corporation and each of its Directors and officers which may be modified as to any Director or officer in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the date of any such modification only with that person's consent or as specifically provided in this Section. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Bylaws relating to their amendment generally, any repeal or amendment of this Article XII which is adverse to any Director or officer shall apply to such Director or officer only on a prospective basis, and shall not reduce any limitation on the personal liability of a director of the Corporation, or limit the rights of an Indemnitee to indemnification or to the advancement of expenses with respect to any action or failure to act occurring prior to the time of such repeal or amendment. Notwithstanding any other provision of these Bylaws, no repeal or amendment of these Bylaws shall affect any or all of this Article so as either to reduce the limitation of directors' liability or limit indemnification or the advancement of expenses in any manner unless adopted by (a) the unanimous vote of the Directors of the Corporation then serving, or (b) the affirmative vote of stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of the votes that all stockholders are entitled to cast in the election of Directors; provided that no such amendment shall have retroactive effect inconsistent with the preceding sentence.
Amendment.
 
Section 12.14. . If this Article or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Indemnitee as to any expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or investigation, whether civil, criminal or administrative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Savings Clause
 
Section 12.15. . Terms used herein and defined in Section 145(h) and Section 145(i) of the Delaware Law shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in such Section 145(h) and Section 145(i).
Definitions
 
Section 13.1. All words, terms and provisions of these Bylaws shall be interpreted and defined by and in accordance with the Delaware Law. If any provision of these Bylaws shall be inconsistent with any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, the provision of the Certificate of Incorporation shall prevail. Where any provision of these Bylaws refers to a rule or process as set forth in these Bylaws, the reference shall be construed to include and be satisfied by any rule or process on the same subject set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Interpretation.
 
Section 13.2. The provisions of these Bylaws are independent of and separable from each other, and no provision shall be affected or rendered invalid or unenforceable by virtue of the fact that for any reason any other or others of them may be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part.
Separability.
 
Section 14.1. Any determination involving interpretation or application of these Bylaws made in good faith by the Board of Directors shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties in interest.
Effect of Board Determinations.
 


