ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Sales grew by 8% in 2001 and by 13% in 2000. Excluding currency effects, sales grew 11% in 2001 and by 17% in 2000. Sales growth, before currency effects, in both years reflected increased customer demand for new products and generally was broad based geographically. Operating income, excluding a provision for patent litigation, for the year ended December 31, 2001 was $224.5 million, a 6% increase over the $210.8 million generated in 2000. Earnings per diluted common share were $1.27 in 2001, excluding a provision for patent litigation and an impairment charge for certain equity investments, an 11% increase over the $1.14 in 2000, which is before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. In addition, the Company remained essentially debt free while generating all in cash flow of $155.0 million. All in cash flow is the increase of cash plus the reduction of debt. In February 2002, the Company entered into an agreement to replace its existing credit facility. The new credit facility provides a $250.0 million line of credit and is unsecured in nature. In March 2002, the Company was informed, as a result of a jurys finding on a civil action filed by competitors, that the Quattro Ultima triple quadrupole mass spectrometer sold in the U.S. infringes on their U.S. patent. The jury has determined damages in the amount of $47.5 million. As of the date this Form 10 K was filed, the court had not addressed certain claims brought by the Company, which could mitigate damages. The Company intends to contest the jurys findings vigorously through appeals. The Company has recorded a $75.0 million patent litigation charge in the fourth quarter of 2001 as a result of this matter including interest, court costs, legal fees and other charges. Management believes that some liability has been incurred and this is the Companys best estimate of its exposure based on information currently available. During 2001, approximately 57% of the Companys combined net sales were derived from operations outside the United States. The Company believes that the geographic diversity of its sales reduces its dependence on any particular region. The U.S. dollar value of these revenues varies with currency exchange fluctuations, and such fluctuations can affect the Companys results from period to period. 12 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 Net Sales: Net sales for 2001 were $859.2 million and were an increase of 8% compared to $795.1 million for 2000. Excluding the adverse effects of a stronger U.S. dollar in 2001, particularly with the euro and the Japanese yen, 2001 net sales increased by 11% over 2000. Overall orders and sales reflected continued strong demand across all major geographies especially from our life science customers. HPLC and MS sales in 2001 grew slightly more than 10% in constant currencies over 2000 while TA sales were flat. Order backlog remained unchanged for the year before considering the recent $19.0 million order from GeneProt(TM), Inc. Sales of high end mass spectrometry products were strong for 2001 in all of our life science applications. Gross Profit: Gross profit for 2001 was $548.0 million compared to $506.8 million for 2000, an increase of $41.2 million or 8%. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 63.8% in 2001 from 63.7% in 2000. This was primarily due to productivity improvements realized from volume growth and cost savings efficiencies, and a modest shift in sales mix toward higher margin chemistry and service product lines. Both were partially offset by the adverse effects of currency translation to the Companys sales. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2001 and 2000 were $269.7 million and $246.4 million, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 31.4% for 2001 from 31.0% for 2000. The $23.3 million or 9% increase in 2001 resulted primarily from increased headcount, particularly in after sales technical support and service labor largely within our mass spectrometry business. Headcount rose from 3,158 at December 31, 2000 to 3,483 at December 31, 2001 or 10%. This increase in headcount and related costs were required to support increased current and future sales levels, and were slightly reduced by the effects of currency translation. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses were negligible in fiscal year 2001. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses were $46.6 million for 2001 and $42.5 million for 2000, an increase of $4.1 million or 10%. The Company continued to invest significantly in the development of new and improved HPLC, mass spectrometry, thermal analysis and rheology products. Patent Litigation Provision: In 2001, the Company recorded a $75.0 million pre tax charge for patent litigation. There was no such charge in 2000. Goodwill and Purchased Technology Amortization: Goodwill and purchased technology amortization was $7.1 million for both 2001 and 2000 as there was relatively no change in the nature or amortization periods of the asset components. In 2002, goodwill amortization will cease in accordance with recently issued accounting standards. Goodwill amortization was approximately $4.0 million in 2001. Operating Income: Operating income for 2001, excluding a provision for patent litigation, was $224.5 million compared to $210.8 million for 2000. This increase of $13.7 million or 6% for the year is attributed to production efficiencies and continued focus on cost controls in all operating areas. Operating income as a percentage of sales decreased slightly from 26.5% in 2000 to 26.1% in 2001 essentially due to marginal increases in operating expenses in relation to sales growth unfavorably impacted by currency translation. Other Expense: In 2001, the Company recorded a $7.1 million pre tax charge for an other than temporary impairment to the carrying amount of certain equity investments. There was no such charge in 2000. Interest Income (Expense), Net: Net interest income for 2001 and 2000 was $5.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The change primarily reflected the elimination of debt under the Companys Bank Credit Agreement during 2000 and interest earned on investments of cash generated from the Companys positive cash flow, offset slightly by lower yields. 13 Provision for Income Taxes: The Companys effective income tax rate was 22.3% in 2001 and 26% in 2000. The 2001 tax rate decreased primarily due to the continued favorable shift in the mix of taxable income to lower tax rate jurisdictions and tax benefits provided by the provision for patent litigation. Income before Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle: Net income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change for 2001 and 2000 was $114.5 million and $156.1 million, respectively, resulting in a decrease of $41.6 million or 27%. The decrease was primarily due to a $75.0 million pre tax charge against income in 2001 for patent litigation and, to a certain extent, the unfavorable impact of currency translation offset by sales growth, favorable interest income dynamics and the impact of a decrease in the Companys effective income tax rate. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 Net Sales: Net sales for 2000 were $795.1 million, compared to $704.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, an increase of 13%. Excluding the impact of currency on 2000 net sales compared to 1999, net sales increased 17%. Sales were particularly strong to life science customers and for mass spectrometry products in general. Sales of time of flight mass spectrometry products continued to perform well with sales growing in excess of 50% in 2000 as a result of expanding customer needs in proteomics, drug discovery and drug development application areas. Currency translation reduced sales growth rates by four percentage points in 2000 primarily due to weakening of European currencies, which was partially offset by appreciation of the Japanese yen. Gross Profit: Gross profit for 2000 was $506.8 million, compared to $447.3 million for 1999, an increase of $59.5 million or 13%. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 63.7% in 2000 from 63.5% in 1999, as the Company continues to benefit from productivity improvements, which were offset, to a certain extent, by the effects of currency translation. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2000 were $246.4 million, compared to $226.6 million for 1999. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 31.0% for 2000 from 32.2% for 1999 as a result of higher sales volume and expense controls. The $19.8 million or 9% increase in total expenditures primarily resulted from increased headcount and related costs required to support increased sales levels, reduced by the effects of currency translation. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses were $42.5 million for 2000 compared to $36.1 million for 1999, a $6.4 million or 18% increase from prior year levels. The Company continued to invest significantly in the development of new and improved HPLC, thermal analysis, rheology and mass spectrometry products. Goodwill and Purchased Technology Amortization: Goodwill and purchased technology amortization for 2000 was $7.1 million, compared to $8.1 million for 1999, a decrease of $1.0 million or 12%. The expense decreased because a portion of purchased technology reached full amortization in 1999. Operating Income: Operating income for 2000 was $210.8 million, an increase of $34.3 million or 19% from the prior year. Waters improved operating income levels on the strength of sales growth, volume leverage and continued focus on cost controls in all operating areas. Interest Income (Expense), Net: Net interest income was $.1 million in 2000 compared to net interest expense of ($8.9) million in 1999. The current year change primarily reflected payment of outstanding debt balances during the year under the Companys Bank Credit Agreement and investment of cash generated from operations. Provision for Income Taxes: The Companys effective income tax rate was 26% in 2000 and 27% in 1999. The 2000 tax rate decreased primarily due to a favorable shift in the mix of taxable income to lower tax rate jurisdictions. 14 Income before Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle: Income from operations before the cumulative effect of an accounting change for 2000 was $156.1 million, compared to $122.3 million for 1999, an increase of $33.8 million or 28%. The improvement over the prior year was a result of sales growth, productivity improvement across all operating areas, a decline in interest expense and the impact of a decrease in the Companys effective income tax rate. Change in Revenue Recognition Accounting: Effective January 1, 2000, the Company changed its method of revenue recognition for certain products requiring installation in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. Previously, the Company recognized revenue related to both the sale and the installation of certain products at the time of shipment. The larger of the contractual cash holdback or the fair value of the installation service is now deferred when the product is shipped and recognized as a multiple element arrangement in accordance with SAB 101 when installation is complete. The cumulative effect of the change on prior years resulted in a charge to income of $10.8 million (net of an income tax benefit of $3.8 million), which is included in income for the year ended December 31, 2000. The adoption of SAB 101 had virtually no effect on the Companys 2000 results of operations excluding the cumulative effect. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company recognized $17.6 million in revenue, which is the entire amount of revenue associated with the cumulative effect adjustment as of January 1, 2000. EURO CURRENCY CONVERSION Several countries of the European Union adopted the euro as their legal currency effective January 1, 2002 ("the euro conversion"). A transition period had been established from January 1, 1999 to January 1, 2002 during which companies conducting business in these countries could use the euro or their local currency. The Company has considered the potential impact of the euro conversion on pricing competition, information technology systems, currency risk and risk management. Currently, the Company does not expect that the euro conversion will result in any material increase in costs to the Company or have a material adverse effect on its business or financial condition. During 2001, the Company successfully tested and implemented the euro conversion of its information technology systems. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES During 2001, net cash provided by the Companys operating activities was $189.2 million, primarily as a result of net income for the year after adding back the provision for patent litigation, depreciation, amortization and the tax benefit related to stock option activity, less working capital needs. The $189.2 million is an increase of $13.6 million over 2000 and is mostly due to the increase in the Companys net income, excluding the non cash impact of the 2001 provision for patent litigation. In terms of working capital, excluding the provision for patent litigation, $21.1 million was used as accounts receivable grew relatively proportionate to sales growth while days sales outstanding stood at 67 days at December 31, 2001 compared to 68 days at December 31, 2000. Approximately $15.9 million was used for inventory growth related to current sales expectations and new product inventory related to future sales. Within liabilities, an increase in accounts payable and other current liabilities, and deferred revenue and customer advances provided $11.0 million, excluding a tax benefit of $20.5 million on the provision for patent litigation. In addition, the Company received $9.0 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and its employee stock purchase plan, and $6.8 million from the settlement of its debt swap agreements. Primary uses of cash flow during the year were $3.7 million of bank debt repayment, $42.4 million of property, plant and equipment and software capitalization investments, and $6.6 million for investments in unaffiliated companies and business acquisitions. In February 2002, the Company entered into an agreement to replace its existing credit facility, unsecured in nature, in the amount of $250.0 million. The Company has commitments for lease agreements, expiring at various dates through 2019, covering certain buildings, office equipment and automobiles. Future minimum rents payable as of December 31, 2001 under non cancelable leases with initial terms exceeding one year are $13.0 million, $11.1 million, $8.7 million and $6.3 million for the years 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Future minimum rents payable from 2006 through 2019 are $25.7 million. In addition, the Company has various ongoing license and collaboration agreements in conjunction with its research and development efforts. The Company also has disbursed $19.0 million in the first quarter of 2002 as part of certain minority equity investments and an acquisition of a foreign distributor. The Company believes that the existing cash and cash equivalent balance of $226.8 million and expected cash flow from operating activities together with borrowings available from its credit facility will be sufficient to fund working capital, capital spending requirements, and any adverse final determination of ongoing patent litigation in the foreseeable future. 15 The Company is not aware of any undisclosed risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to product technical obsolescence, regulatory compliance, protection of intellectual property rights, changes in pharmaceutical industry spending, competitive advantages, current and pending litigation, and changes in foreign exchanges rates, that are reasonably likely to occur and could materially and negatively affect the Companys existing cash balance or its ability to borrow funds from its credit facility. The Company also believes there are no provisions in the new credit facility, its real estate leases, and supplier and collaborative agreements that would accelerate payments, require additional collateral or impair our ability to continue to enter into critical transactions. As a publicly held company, the Company has not paid any dividends and does not plan to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Summary: The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, Waters evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, product returns and allowances, bad debts, inventory valuation, equity investments, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, warranty and installation provisions, contingencies and litigation. Waters bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: Sales of products and services are generally recorded based on product shipment and performance of service, respectively. Proceeds received in advance of product shipment or performance of service are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. Once the product is shipped all advance payments received associated with that particular order are reclassified to accounts receivable. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales net of amounts invoiced to the customer per the order. Our products generally carry one year of warranty. These costs are accrued at the point of shipment. Once the warranty period has expired, the customer may purchase a service contract. Service contract billings are generally invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the contract term and amortized on a straight line basis to sales over the contract term. At December 31, 2001 the Company had a deferred revenue liability of $49.0 million. Product shipments, including those for demonstration or evaluation, and service contracts are not recorded as revenues until a valid purchase order or master agreement is received specifying fixed terms and prices. Revenues are adjusted accordingly for changes in contract terms or if collectibility is not reasonably assured. Revenue related to installation of certain products is deferred when the product is shipped and recognized when installation is complete. The larger of the contractual cash holdback or the fair value of the installation service is deferred and recognized under a multiple element arrangement in accordance with SAB 101. The Company changed its method of revenue recognition for products requiring installation effective January 1, 2000. Previously, the Company recognized revenue related to both the sale and the installation of certain products at the time of shipment and accrued all associated costs. Estimates of the fair value of installation revenue deferred are based on comparable values from contracts in the same product family where installation is quoted or billed separately. Loss Provisions on Accounts Receivable and Inventory: Waters maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Waters does not request collateral from our customers but collectibility is enhanced through the use of credit card payments and letters of credit. We assess collectibility based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, past transaction history with the customer, the credit worthiness of the customer, independent credit reports, industry trends and the macro economic environment. Sales returns and allowances are estimates of future product returns related to current period revenue. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of our revenue for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates for sales returns and allowances for doubtful accounts. Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2001 was $182.2 million, net of allowances for sales returns and doubtful accounts of $3.8 million. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant bad debt losses. Waters values all of its inventories at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis ("FIFO"). Waters estimates revisions to its inventory valuations based on technical obsolescence, historical demand, projections of future demand including that in our current backlog of orders, and 16 industry and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional valuation provisions may be required. Our inventory balance at December 31, 2001 was $102.7 million, net of valuation provisions. Valuation of Equity Investments: Waters holds minority equity interests in companies having operations or technology in areas within our strategic focus, some of which are publicly traded and have highly volatile share prices. For investments where the company is not publicly traded, we obtain and review quarterly and annual financial statements and progress of technological expectations. We record an investment impairment charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investments current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future. In the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a $7.1 million charge to other expense, in the consolidated statements of operations, for the impairment of certain equity investments. Long Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill: We assess the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include but are not limited to the following: . significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; . significant negative industry or economic trends; . significant changes or developments in strategic technological collaborations or legal matters which affect the Companys capitalized patent, trademark and intellectual properties such as licenses. When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. Net intangible assets, long lived assets, and goodwill amounted to $338.2 million as of December 31, 2001. In 2002, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets became effective and as a result, we will cease to amortize approximately $163.5 million of goodwill. We had recorded approximately $4.0 million of amortization on these amounts during 2001 and would have recorded approximately the same amount of amortization in 2002. In lieu of amortization, we are required to perform an initial impairment review of our goodwill in 2002 and an annual impairment review thereafter. We expect to complete our initial review during the first half of 2002. We currently do not expect to record an impairment charge upon completion of the initial impairment review. However, there can be no assurance that at the time the review is completed a material impairment charge will not be recorded. Warranty: Product warranties are recorded at the time revenue is recognized for certain product shipments. While Waters engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers, our warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from our previous estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Income Taxes: As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves us estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, amortization, and inventory reserves, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates, or we adjust these estimates in future periods, we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. The Company has realized significant income tax benefits associated with the exercise of its nonqualified stock options. The corresponding credit was to additional paid in capital. Because of the magnitude of the stock option exercises, the Company believes that it is more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax assets will not be realized, therefore, a valuation allowance has reduced to zero all the deferred tax assets relating to U.S. income. The remaining deferred tax asset of $1.8 million at December 31, 2001 relates to foreign deferred tax assets that are expected to be utilized. 17 Litigation: As described in Item 3 of this Form 10 K, the Company is a party to various pending litigation matters. With respect to each pending claim, management determines whether it can reasonably estimate whether a loss is probable and, if so, the probable range of that loss. If and when management has determined, with respect to a particular claim, both that a loss is probable and that it can reasonably estimate the range of that loss, the Company records a charge equal to either its best estimate of that loss or the lowest amount in that probable range of loss. The Company will disclose additional exposures when the range of loss is subject to considerable interpretation. With respect to the claims described in Item 3, management of the Company to date has been able to make both of these determinations, and thus has recorded a charge, only with respect to the claim described under the heading "Applera Corporation." As developments occur in these matters and additional information becomes available, management of the Company will reassess the probability of any losses and of their range, which may result in its recording charges or additional charges, which could materially impact the Companys results of operation or financial position. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS CHANGES In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS 141, Business Combinations and SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for under the purchase method only and that certain acquired intangible assets in a business combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. SFAS 142 requires that ratable amortization of goodwill be replaced with periodic tests of the goodwills impairment and that intangible assets other than goodwill be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS 141 is effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and for all business combinations accounted for by the purchase method for which the date of acquisition is after June 30, 2001. The provisions of SFAS 142 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, and will thus be adopted by the Company, as required, in fiscal year 2002. Goodwill amortization was approximately $4.0 million in fiscal year 2001. The impact of impairment, if any, of goodwill on the Companys financial statements has not yet been determined. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. The provisions of SFAS 143 apply to all entities that incur obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets. SFAS 143 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002, and will thus be adopted by the Company, as required, in fiscal year 2003. The Company does not expect the application of SFAS 143 to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. SFAS 144 provides guidance on the accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets. The objectives of SFAS 144 are to address significant issues relating to the implementation of SFAS 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed of, and to develop a single model (based on the framework established in SFAS 121) for long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held or newly acquired. SFAS 144 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001 and, generally, its provisions are to be applied prospectively. The Company does not expect the application of SFAS 144 to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. 18 ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to financial risk in several areas including changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The Company attempts to minimize its exposures by using certain financial instruments, for purposes other than trading, in accordance with the Companys overall risk management guidelines. Further information regarding the Companys accounting policies for financial instruments and disclosures of financial instruments can be found in Notes 2 and 6 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Company has operations in various countries and currencies throughout the world. As a result, the Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company uses debt swap agreements to mitigate partially such effects, and these agreements are designated as foreign currency hedges of a net investment in foreign operations. These agreements effectively swap higher U.S. dollar fixed rate borrowings for lower fixed rate borrowings denominated in the respective currencies. The effects of these debt swap agreements and interest income earned from the investment of cash in 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $6.2 million, $4.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively. During 2001, the Company opened and subsequently closed debt swap agreements, in European and Japanese currencies. In December 2001, the Company entered into new debt swap agreements in Japanese yen, with a notional amount totaling $27.0 million, with a term of three months and an interest rate of .15%. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company recorded a cumulative net pre tax gain of $7.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive (loss), which consisted of a realized gain of $6.8 million relating to the closed debt swap agreements and an unrealized gain of $1.0 million relating to the new Japanese yen swap agreements, both of which partially offset hedged foreign exchange impacts. At December 31, 2000, the Company did not have any open debt swap agreements and for the year ended December 31, 2000, a realized gain of $15.2 million was recognized in accumulated other comprehensive (loss). Assuming a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in year end exchange rates (a weakening of the U.S. dollar), the fair market value of the debt swap agreements as of December 31, 2001 would decrease by $2.9 million. The Company also enters into forward foreign exchange contracts, principally to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on certain intercompany balances. Principal hedged currencies include the euro and British pound. The periods of these forward contracts typically range from three to six months and have varying notional amounts which are intended to be consistent with changes in intercompany balances. Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. At December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000, the Company held forward foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling approximately $54.1 million and $60.0 million, respectively. INTEREST RATES The Company is exposed to the risk of interest rate fluctuations when borrowing in connection with its credit agreement. As a result, the Company may periodically attempt to minimize its interest rate exposures by using certain financial instruments such as interest swap agreements for the purposes other than trading. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, there were no outstanding interest swap agreements. The Company is exposed to the risk of interest rate fluctuations from the investments of cash generated from operations. The Companys cash equivalents represent highly liquid investments, with original maturities of 90 days or less, in repurchase agreements and money market funds. Cash equivalents are convertible to a known amount of cash and carry an insignificant risk of change in value. The Company periodically maintained balances in various operating accounts in excess of federally insured limits. 19 
 
