Item 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Overview Sales grew by 4% in 2002 and by 8% in 2001. Excluding currency effects, sales grew 2% in 2002 and 11% in 2001. Sales growth, before currency effects, in both years reflected increased customer demand for new products. Sales growth in 2002 was adversely impacted by the effect of ongoing patent litigation in the U.S., as discussed below. As a result of this litigation, sales in the U.S. were down 5% while sales growth elsewhere was generally broad based geographically. Reported operating income for 2002 and 2001 was $196.4 million and $149.5 million, respectively. Operating income, excluding provisions for litigation of $7.9 million, an impairment charge of $2.4 million and restructuring and other unusual charges of $7.4 million, for 2002 was $214.2 million, a 5% decrease from the $224.5 million, excluding provisions for litigation of $75.0 million, generated in 2001. The Company remained essentially debt free while generating all in cash flow of $84.9 million. All in cash flow is the increase of cash, including changes in restricted cash, plus the reduction of debt. In February 2002, the Company entered into an agreement to replace its existing credit facility. The new credit facility provides a $250.0 million line of credit and is unsecured. In March 2002, the Company was informed, as a result of a jurys finding on a civil action filed by competitors, that the Quattro Ultima triple quadrupole mass spectrometer sold in the U.S. infringes on their U.S. patent. The jury has determined damages in the amount of $47.5 million. In March 2003, the infringement in the U.S. was affirmed on appeal, including damages and interest of approximately $54.0 million. Similar claims have been asserted against the Company in other countries and there is a possibility that claims may be made with respect to other products in the mass spectrometry line. The Company recorded a $75.0 million patent litigation charge in the fourth quarter of 2001 as a result of this matter including interest, court costs, legal fees and other charges. An additional provision of $2.8 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2002 relating to current year sales. The amounts recorded represent the Companys best estimate of its exposure based on information currently available. During 2002, approximately 62% of the Companys combined net sales were derived from operations outside the United States. The Company believes that the geographic diversity of its sales reduces its dependence on any particular region. The U.S. dollar value of these revenues varies with currency exchange fluctuations, and such fluctuations can affect the Companys results from period to period. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Net Sales: Net sales for 2002 were $890.0 million and were an increase of 4% compared to $859.2 million for 2001. Excluding the favorable effects of a weaker U.S. dollar, 2002 net sales increased by 2% over 2001. The Companys HPLC product line performed well across all major geographies with overall sales growth in the high single digits, excluding currency effects. In particular, the Company experienced an increase of approximately 19% in service revenue, primarily due to additional service plan revenues from the Companys installed customer base. The Companys mass spectrometry product line was affected in the U.S. by the March 2002 unfavorable patent litigation ruling involving sales of certain mass spectrometry products. Overall mass spectrometry sales decreased by a mid single digit rate in 2002, excluding currency effects. Thermal analysis sales were up slightly in 2002. Currency increased reported sales growth in 2002 by two percentage points primarily due to the strengthening of the euro and British pound. Gross Profit: Gross profit for 2002 was $516.5 million compared to $497.3 million for 2001, an increase of $19.2 million or 4%. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 58.0% in 2002 from 57.9% in 2001. These gross profit amounts and gross profit percentages reflect a reclassification of certain labor and related costs associated with service revenues that were previously classified in operating expenses and included in selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company experienced a higher mix of sales of more profitable consumables and services in 2002 as well as reductions in HPLC manufacturing costs due to lower material costs. In addition, the Company acquired the businesses of its Irish and Korean distributors in early 2002 and mid 2001, respectively. As such, the incremental profit from direct billings have increased gross profit and gross profit percentages in 2002, as well as operating expenses. The Company experienced an increase in service labor costs, offsetting some of the above mentioned increases in gross profit and gross profit percentage. 12 Table of Contents Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2002 and 2001 were $246.8 million and $219.0 million, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 27.7% for 2002 from 25.5% for 2001 after considering the reclassification of certain labor and related costs discussed above. The $27.8 million or 13% increase primarily resulted from increased headcount and related costs required to support anticipated increased current and future sales levels, including the acquisitions of Irish and Korean distributor businesses. Headcount rose from 2,133 at December 31, 2001 to 2,230 at December 31, 2002 or 5%. In addition, the Company recorded an increase of approximately $2.5 million in patent defense costs during 2002. The Company changed its method of accounting for legal costs associated with litigating patents effective January 1, 2002 and current year patent related expenses are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company also recorded a provision of $1.5 million for estimated damages incurred with respect to ongoing patent infringement litigation during 2002. Expenses also slightly increased due to the effects of currency translation. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses were negligible in fiscal year 2002. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses were $51.9 million for 2002 and $46.6 million for 2001, an increase of $5.3 million or 11%. The Company continued to invest significantly in the development of new and improved HPLC, mass spectrometry, thermal analysis and rheology products. Goodwill and Purchased Technology Amortization: Goodwill and purchased technology amortization for 2002 was $3.6 million compared to $7.1 million for 2001, a decrease of $3.5 million or 50%. The change was primarily related to the elimination of goodwill amortization in 2002 in accordance with recently adopted accounting standards. Litigation Provisions: The Company recorded $2.8 million and $75.0 million for the Applera patent litigation in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The 2002 charge of $2.8 million was for additional liabilities associated with related product sales made in 2002 prior to the day of the jurys verdict in March 2002. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a litigation provision of $5.1 million relating to an estimated settlement of an outstanding case with the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection regarding the Companys Taunton, Massachusetts facility. The provisions represent managements best estimate of the probable and reasonably estimable loss related to this litigation. Impairment of Long Lived Asset: In 2002, the Company recorded a $2.4 million charge for an other than temporary impairment of its technology license asset with Varigenics, as the technology collaboration program was discontinued. There was no such charge in 2001. Restructuring and Other Unusual Charges: The Company recorded $7.4 million of charges in the fourth quarter of 2002 for restructuring and other specific incremental charges relating to its integration of the worldwide sales, service and distribution groups of the Micromass division with the Waters HPLC division. The charges in 2002 include severance costs for 42 people, cancellation penalties for distributor contracts, facility closure costs and other specific incremental costs related to this integration. The objective of this strategy is to leverage the strengths of both divisions and align operating expenses to a more rational level as a percentage of sales. There was no such charge in 2001. The following table provides additional information about the 2002 restructuring and other unusual charges: Balance December 31, 2001 Charges Payments Balance December 31, 2002 Severance $ $ 2,210 $ (555 ) $ 1,655 Facilities 2,400 (12 ) 2,388 Distributor terminations 1,350 1,350 Other 1,444 (1,366 ) 78 Total $ $ 7,404 $ (1,933 ) $ 5,471 13 Table of Contents Operating Income: Operating income for 2002 was $196.4 million compared to $149.5 million for 2001. This increase of $46.9 million or 31% for the year is primarily attributed to the decrease in litigation provisions from $75.0 million to $7.9 million, an increase in sales and the elimination of goodwill amortization in 2002. Offsetting the increase in operating income is an increase in operating expenses including $7.4 million for restructuring and other unusual charges associated with the integration of the worldwide sales, service and distribution groups of the Micromass division with the Waters HPLC division and a $2.4 million charge of an other than temporary impairment of a long lived asset. Operating expenses grew faster than sales as the Company has yet to realize the full benefits of the combination of the Micromass and HPLC field operations. Other Income (Expense), Net: In 2002, the Company recorded $13.7 million in pre tax charges for other than temporary impairments to the carrying amounts of certain equity investments, including investments in Geneprot and Variagenics. The impairment charges were offset by a $7.7 million termination fee received from Geneprot for cancellation of its $20.0 million order. In 2001, the Company recorded a $7.1 million pre tax charge for an other than temporary impairment to the carrying amount of certain equity investments, primarily its investment in Variagenics. Interest Income (Expense), Net: Net interest income for 2002 and 2001 was $5.0 million for both years. The Company experienced an increase in interest income due to higher cash balances in 2002, offset by an increase in interest expense due to accrued post judgment interest associated with the Applera patent litigation. Provision for Income Taxes: The Companys effective income tax rate was 22.1% in 2002 and 22.3% in 2001. The 2002 tax rate decreased primarily due to the continued favorable shift in the mix of taxable income to lower tax rate jurisdictions. Income before Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle: Income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change for 2002 and 2001 was $152.2 million and $114.5 million, respectively, resulting in an increase of $37.7 million or 33%. The increase is primarily due to the decrease in litigation provisions from $75.0 million to $7.9 million, an increase in sales and the elimination of goodwill amortization in 2002. Offsetting this increase is an increase in operating expenses including $7.4 million for restructuring and other unusual charges associated with the integration of the worldwide sales, service and distribution groups of the Micromass division with the Waters HPLC division and a $2.4 million charge of an other than temporary impairment of a long lived asset. Operating expenses grew faster than sales as the Company has yet to realize the full benefits of the combination of the Micromass and HPLC field operations. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle: In 2002, the method of accounting for patent related costs associated with patent litigation was changed effective January 1, 2002 from a method of capitalizing the patent related costs and amortizing them over their estimated remaining economic life, to expensing the costs as incurred. The Company believes that this change is preferable because it will provide a better comparison with the Companys industry peers, the majority of which expense these costs as incurred. The $4.5 million cumulative effect of the change on prior years (after reduction for income taxes of $1.3 million) is included as a charge to net income for 2002. Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Net Sales: Net sales for 2001 were $859.2 million and were an increase of 8% compared to $795.1 million for 2000. Excluding the adverse effects of a stronger U.S. dollar in 2001, particularly with the euro and the Japanese yen, 2001 net sales increased by 11% over 2000. Overall orders and sales reflected continued strong demand across all major geographies especially from life science customers. HPLC and MS sales in 2001 grew slightly more than 10% in constant currencies over 2000 while TA sales were flat. Order backlog remained unchanged for the year. Sales of high end mass spectrometry products were strong for 2001 in all of the Companys life science applications. Gross Profit: Gross profit for 2001 was $497.3 million compared to $464.1 million for 2000, an increase of $33.2 million or 7%. Gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased to 57.9% in 2001 from 58.4% in 2000. These gross profit amounts and gross profit percentages reflect a reclassification of certain labor and related costs associated with service revenues that were previously 14 Table of Contents classified in operating expenses and included in selling, general and administrative expenses. The decrease in the gross profit percentage was primarily due an increase in service labor costs and to some extent the adverse effects of currency translation to the Companys sales. The decrease in the gross profit percentage was offset by productivity improvements realized from volume growth and cost savings efficiencies, and a modest shift in sales mix toward higher margin chemistry and service product lines. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2001 and 2000 were $219.0 million and $203.7 million, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased slightly to 25.5% for 2001 from 25.6% for 2000 after considering the reclassification of certain labor and related costs discussed above. The $15.3 million or 8% increase in 2001 resulted primarily from increased headcount, particularly in after sales technical support within the Companys mass spectrometry business. Headcount rose from 1,895 at December 31, 2000 to 2,133 at December 31, 2001 or 13%. This increase in headcount and related costs were required to support increased current and future sales levels, and were slightly reduced by the effects of currency translation. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses were negligible in fiscal year 2001. Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses were $46.6 million for 2001 and $42.5 million for 2000, an increase of $4.1 million or 10%. The Company continued to invest significantly in the development of new and improved HPLC, mass spectrometry, thermal analysis and rheology products. Goodwill and Purchased Technology Amortization: Goodwill and purchased technology amortization was $7.1 million for both 2001 and 2000 as there was relatively no change in the nature or amortization periods of the asset components. In 2002, goodwill amortization ceased in accordance with recently issued accounting standards. Goodwill amortization was approximately $4.0 million in 2001. Litigation Provisions: In 2001, the Company recorded a $75.0 million pre tax charge for patent litigation as more fully described in Note 9 of the financial statements. There was no such charge in 2000. Operating Income: Operating income for 2001, excluding a provision for patent litigation, was $224.5 million compared to $210.8 million for 2000. This increase of $13.7 million or 6% for the year is attributed to production efficiencies and continued focus on cost controls in all operating areas. Operating income as a percentage of sales decreased slightly from 26.5% in 2000 to 26.1% in 2001 essentially due to marginal increases in operating expenses in relation to sales growth unfavorably impacted by currency translation. Other Income (Expense), Net: In 2001, the Company recorded a $7.1 million pre tax charge for an other than temporary impairment to the carrying amount of certain equity investments. There was no such charge in 2000. Interest Income (Expense), Net: Net interest income for 2001 and 2000 was $5.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The change primarily reflected the elimination of debt under the Companys Bank Credit Agreement during 2000 and interest earned on investments of cash generated from the Companys positive cash flow, offset slightly by lower yields. Provision for Income Taxes: The Companys effective income tax rate was 22.3% in 2001 and 26% in 2000. The 2001 tax rate decreased primarily due to the continued favorable shift in the mix of taxable income to lower tax rate jurisdictions and tax benefits provided by the provision for patent litigation. Income before Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle: Net income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change for 2001 and 2000 was $114.5 million and $156.1 million, respectively, resulting in a decrease of $41.6 million or 27%. The decrease was primarily due to a $75.0 million pre tax charge against income in 2001 for patent litigation and, to a certain extent, the unfavorable impact of currency translation offset by sales growth, favorable interest income dynamics and the impact of a decrease in the Companys effective income tax rate. 15 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources During 2002, net cash provided by the Companys operating activities was $219.6 million, primarily as a result of net income for the year of $147.7 million after adding back depreciation of $26.0 million, amortization of intangible assets of $11.2 million and non cash impairment charges of $16.1 million. The $219.6 million is an increase of $30.4 million over 2001 and is primarily due to the increase in the Companys net income. Working capital for 2002 was $316.2 million, relatively flat with 2001, excluding the increase in cash. In terms of working capital and after excluding the effects of currency translation, $1.8 million was used as accounts receivable grew relatively proportionate to sales growth. Days sales outstanding stood at 70 days at December 31, 2002 compared to 67 days at December 31, 2001, with the increase mainly attributed to the effects of currency translation. Approximately $4.6 million was used for inventory growth related to current sales expectations. Within liabilities, an increase in accounts payable and other current liabilities, and deferred revenue and customer advances provided $6.4 million. In addition, from financing activities, the Company received $11.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and its employee stock purchase plan. Primary uses of cash flow during the year were $99.3 million for the purchase of treasury shares, $20.4 million for investments in unaffiliated companies and business acquisitions and $38.0 million of property, plant and equipment and software capitalization investments. Approximately $49.9 million of cash was reclassed to restricted cash during the period in connection with the standby letter of credit issued by the Company with respect to the unfavorable judgment in the Applera patent litigation. In March 2003, the unfavorable judgment was upheld in appeals court; the Company is expected to pay approximately $54.0 million in damages, including interest, in the second quarter of 2003. Cash held as restricted will no longer be required once payment has been made. The Company believes that the existing cash and cash equivalent balance of $263.3 million and expected cash flow from operating activities together with borrowings available from its credit facility will be sufficient to fund working capital, capital spending requirements, and any adverse final determination of ongoing litigation in the foreseeable future. It is the Companys intention to continue to purchase the remaining $100.7 million in treasury shares available under its stock repurchase program during the first half of 2003. Because the repurchases are made in the U.S. only, the Company may have borrowings against its credit facility in 2003. Commitments: The Company paid $19.3 million in the first quarter of 2003 for acquisitions. The Company also has various ongoing license and collaboration agreements in conjunction with its research and development efforts. Capital expenditures in 2003 are expected to be similar to 2002 levels. The Company has commitments for lease agreements, expiring at various dates through 2019, covering certain buildings, office equipment and automobiles. Future minimum rents payable as of December 31, 2002 under non cancelable leases with initial terms exceeding one year are $13.8 million, $11.9 million, $8.8 million and $5.4 million for the years 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Future minimum rents payable from 2007 through 2019 are $21.6 million. The Company is not aware of any undisclosed risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to product technical obsolescence, regulatory compliance, protection of intellectual property rights, changes in pharmaceutical industry spending, competitive advantages, current and pending litigation, and changes in foreign exchanges rates, that are reasonably likely to occur and could materially and negatively affect the Companys existing cash balance or its ability to borrow funds from its credit facility. The Company also believes there are no provisions in the new credit facility, its real estate leases, and supplier and collaborative agreements that would accelerate payments, require additional collateral or impair its ability to continue to enter into critical transactions. As a publicly held company, the Company has not paid any dividends and does not plan to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. 16 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Summary: The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on going basis, Waters evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, product returns and allowances, bad debts, inventory valuation, equity investments, goodwill and intangible assets, income taxes, warranty and installation provisions, contingencies and litigation. Waters bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: Sales of products and services are generally recorded based on product shipment and performance of service, respectively. Partial proceeds received in advance of product shipment or performance of service are recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated balance sheets. Once the product is shipped all advance payments received associated with that particular order are reclassified to accounts receivable to offset against the customer invoice. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales net of amounts invoiced to the customer per the order. The Companys products generally carry one year of warranty. These costs are accrued at the point of shipment. Once the warranty period has expired, the customer may purchase a service contract. Service contract billings are generally invoiced to the customer at the beginning of the contract term, and revenue is amortized on a straight line basis over the contract term. At December 31, 2002, the Company had a deferred revenue liability of $52.1 million. Product shipments, including those for demonstration or evaluation, and service contracts are not recorded as revenues until a valid purchase order or master agreement is received specifying fixed terms and prices. Revenues are adjusted accordingly for changes in contract terms or if collectibility is not reasonably assured. Revenue related to installation of certain products is deferred when the product is shipped and recognized when installation is complete. The larger of the contractual cash holdback or the fair value of the installation service is deferred and recognized under a multiple element arrangement in accordance with SAB 101. The Company changed its method of revenue recognition for products requiring installation effective January 1, 2000. Previously, the Company recognized revenue related to both the sale and the installation of certain products at the time of shipment and accrued all associated costs. Estimates of the fair value of installation revenue deferred are based on comparable values from contracts in the same product family where installation is quoted or billed separately. Loss Provisions on Accounts Receivable and Inventory: Waters maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Waters does not request collateral from its customers but collectibility is enhanced through the use of credit card payments and letters of credit. The Company assesses collectibility based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, past transaction history with the customer, the credit worthiness of the customer, independent credit reports, industry trends and the macro economic environment. Sales returns and allowances are estimates of future product returns related to current period revenue. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of revenue for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates for sales returns and allowances for doubtful accounts. The Companys accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2002 was $198.3 million, net of allowances for doubtful accounts and sales returns of $5.8 million. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant bad debt losses. Waters values all of its inventories at the lower of cost or market on a first in, first out basis (FIFO). Waters estimates revisions to its inventory valuations based on technical obsolescence, historical demand, projections of future demand including that in the Companys current backlog of orders, and industry and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write downs may be required. The Companys inventory balance at December 31, 2002 was $111.6 million, net of write downs to net realizable value of $11.0 million. The Company wrote down inventory in 2002 by approximately $2.0 million to reflect decreased net realizable value for mass spectrometry inventory. 17 Table of Contents Valuation of Equity Investments: Waters holds minority equity interests in companies having operations or technology in areas within its strategic focus, some of which are publicly traded and have highly volatile share prices. For investments where the company is not publicly traded, the Company obtains and reviews quarterly and annual financial statements and progress of technological expectations. The Company records an investment impairment charge when it believes an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investments current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future. In the second quarter and fourth quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $7.6 million and $6.1 million charge, respectively, to other expense, in the consolidated statements of operations, for the impairment of certain equity investments. At December 31, 2002, the Company had equity investments totaling $15.7 million included in other assets on the balance sheet. Long Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill: The Company assesses the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors the Company considers important which could trigger an impairment review include but are not limited to the following: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant changes or developments in strategic technological collaborations or legal matters which affect the Companys capitalized patent, trademark and intellectual properties such as licenses. When the Company determines that the carrying value of intangibles, long lived assets and related goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, it measures any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in the Companys current business model. Net intangible assets, long lived assets, and goodwill amounted to $346.7 million as of December 31, 2002. In 2002, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets became effective and as a result, the Company ceased amortization of approximately $163.5 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2001. The Company had recorded approximately $4.0 million of amortization on these amounts during 2001 and would have recorded approximately the same amount of amortization in 2002. In lieu of amortization, the Company was required to perform an initial impairment review of its goodwill in 2002 and is required to perform an annual impairment review thereafter. The Company completed its initial review during the first half of 2002 and currently does not expect to record an impairment charge in the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that at the time future reviews are completed, a material impairment charge will not be recorded. Warranty: Product warranties are recorded at the time revenue is recognized for certain product shipments. While Waters engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers, the Companys warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ from the Companys previous estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. At December 31, 2002, the Companys warranty liability was $9.6 million. Income Taxes: As part of the process of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Company is required to estimate its income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. This process involves the Company estimating its actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as depreciation, amortization, and inventory reserves, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the consolidated balance sheets. The Company must then assess the likelihood that its deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent it believes that recovery is not likely, the Company must establish a valuation allowance. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates, or the Company adjusts these estimates in future periods, the Company may need to establish an additional valuation allowance which could materially impact its financial position and results of operations. The Company has realized significant income tax benefits associated with the exercise of its nonqualified stock options. The corresponding credit was to additional paid in capital. Because of the outstanding stock options, the Company believes that it is more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax assets will not be realized, therefore, a valuation allowance has reduced to zero all the deferred tax assets relating to U.S. income. The remaining net deferred tax assets of $2.6 million at December 31, 2002 relate to foreign deferred tax assets that are expected to be utilized. 18 Table of Contents Litigation: As described in Item 3 of this Form 10 K, the Company is a party to various pending litigation matters. With respect to each pending claim, management determines whether it can reasonably estimate whether a loss is probable and, if so, the probable range of that loss. If and when management has determined, with respect to a particular claim, both that a loss is probable and that it can reasonably estimate the range of that loss, the Company records a charge equal to either its best estimate of that loss or the lowest amount in that probable range of loss. The Company will disclose additional exposures when the range of loss is subject to considerable interpretation. With respect to the claims referenced in Item 3, management of the Company to date has been able to make both of these determinations, and thus has recorded charges with respect to the claims described under the heading Applera Corporation, Hewlett Packard Company and Environmental Legal Proceedings. As developments occur in these matters and additional information becomes available, management of the Company will reassess the probability of any losses and of their range, which may result in its recording charges or additional charges, which could materially impact the Companys results of operation or financial position. Recent Accounting Standards Changes In December 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment to SFAS 123. SFAS 148 amends SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation to provide alternative methods of transition to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS 148 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. SFAS 148 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 with respect to the alternative transition methods permitted and the annual disclosures required. The disclosure provisions for interim financial information is effective for all periods presented in financial reports containing financial statements for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. Management has not yet evaluated the alternative transition methods if it were to adopt SFAS 123 under this new standard, however, the Company has complied with all current disclosure requirements. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation (FIN) 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FIN 34. FIN 45 requires that guarantors recognize a liability for certain types of guarantees equal to the fair value of the guarantee upon its issuance. FIN 45 also requires increased disclosure of guarantees, including product warranty information. The disclosure provisions of FIN 45 are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods that end after December 15, 2002. The provisions for initial recognition and measurement are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The Company has adopted the disclosure provisions of FIN 45. The Company does not expect the application of FIN 45, as it relates to initial recognition and measurement of an obligation, to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS 146 addresses significant issues regarding the recognition, measurement, and reporting of costs that are associated with exit and disposal activities, including restructuring activities that are currently accounted for pursuant to the guidance that the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) has set forth in EITF Issue 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The scope of SFAS 146 also includes (1) costs related to terminating a contract that is not a capital lease, (2) termination benefits that employees who are involuntarily terminated receive under the terms of a one time benefit arrangement that is not an ongoing benefit arrangement or an individual deferred compensation contract and (3) costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees. SFAS 146 will be effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. Early application is encouraged. The Company does not expect the application of SFAS 146 to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Item 7a: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to financial risk in several areas including changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The Company attempts to minimize its exposures by using certain financial instruments, for purposes other than trading, in accordance with the Companys overall risk management guidelines. Further information regarding the Companys accounting policies for financial instruments and disclosures of financial instruments can be found in Notes 2 and 7 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Foreign Exchange The Company has operations in various countries and currencies throughout the world. As a result, the Companys financial position, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company uses debt swap agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts to partially mitigate such effects, and these agreements are designated as foreign currency hedges of a net investment in foreign operations. The debt swap agreements effectively swap higher U.S. dollar fixed rate borrowings for lower fixed rate borrowings denominated in the respective currencies. During 2002, the Company opened and subsequently closed debt swap agreements in Japanese yen. In December 2002, the Company entered into new debt swap agreements in Japanese yen, with notional amounts totaling $25.0 million, with terms of three months and an interest rate of .07%. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded cumulative net pre tax losses of $1.0 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which consisted of realized losses of $1.4 million relating to the closed debt swap agreements and unrealized gains of $.4 million relating to the new Japanese yen swap agreements, both of which partially offset hedged foreign exchange impacts. In December 2002, the Company also opened forward foreign exchange contracts in British pounds with notional amounts totaling $40.0 million and terms of forty five days. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recorded unrealized gains of $.3 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) relating to these forward foreign exchange contracts. At December 31, 2001, the Company held debt swap agreements in Japanese yen with notional amounts totaling $27.0 million, with terms of three months and an interest rate of .15%. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company recorded cumulative net pre tax gains of $7.8 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which consisted of realized gains of $6.8 million and unrealized gains of $1.0 million. Assuming a hypothetical adverse change of 10% in year end exchange rates (a weakening of the U.S. dollar), the fair market value of the debt swap agreements as of December 31, 2002 would decrease by $2.5 million. The Company also enters into forward foreign exchange contracts, principally to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on certain intercompany balances. Principal hedged currencies include the euro and British pound. The periods of these forward contracts typically range from one to three months and have varying notional amounts which are intended to be consistent with changes in intercompany balances. Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. At December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, the Company held forward foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling approximately $69.0 million and $54.1 million, respectively. Interest Rates The Company is exposed to the risk of interest rate fluctuations when borrowing in connection with its credit agreement. As a result, the Company may periodically attempt to minimize its interest rate exposures by using certain financial instruments such as interest swap agreements for the purposes other than trading. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no outstanding interest swap agreements. The Company is exposed to the risk of interest rate fluctuations from the investments of cash generated from operations. The Companys cash equivalents represent highly liquid investments, with original maturities of 90 days or less, in repurchase agreements and money market funds. Cash equivalents are convertible to a known amount of cash and carry an insignificant risk of change in value. The Company periodically maintained balances in various operating accounts in excess of federally insured limits. 20 Table of Contents 
 
