FILE:MJN/MJN-8K-20090220172037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement
On February 17, 2009, Mead Johnson & Company (""), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (the "Company"), entered into, as a borrower, a three year syndicated revolving credit facility agreement (the "") with the financial institutions and other lenders named therein, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (""), as administrative agent. The Company entered into the Credit Facility as a guarantor.
MJ&C
Credit Facility
JPMCB
The Credit Facility is unsecured and repayable on maturity in February 2012, subject to annual extensions if sufficient lenders agree. The maximum amount of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit permitted at any one time under the Facility Agreement is $410,000,000, which amount may be increased from time to time up to $500,000,000 at the request of MJ&C, subject to customary conditions contained in the Credit Facility. The proceeds of the Credit Facility are to be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries, including commercial paper backup and repurchase of shares.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility will bear interest either at (a) the LIBO rate for specified interest periods plus a margin determined with reference to the Company's consolidated leverage ratio or (b) a floating rate based upon JPMCB's prime rate, the Federal Funds rate or the LIBO rate plus, in each case, a margin determined with reference to the Company's consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company has guaranteed the obligations of MJ&C and all other subsidiary borrowers under the Credit Facility. Additional subsidiaries of the Company may become borrowers under the Credit Facility, in which case, the Company and MJ&C both will guaranty all obligations of such subsidiary under the Credit Facility.
The Credit Facility contains customary covenants, including covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries limiting liens, substantial asset sales and mergers. Most of these restrictions are subject to certain minimum thresholds and exceptions. The Credit Facility also contains the following financial covenants:
 
 
In addition, the Credit Facility has customary events of default, including (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods) payment default, failure to comply with covenants, material inaccuracy of representation or warranty, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, change of control, ERISA matters and cross-default to other debt agreements.
Intercompany Notes
On February 17, 2009, MJ&C issued a Floating Rate Note Due 2014 (the "") to E.R. Squibb & Sons, L.L.C. ("") in the principal amount of $744,246,256. The Company has guaranteed the obligations of MJ&C under the 2014 Note. The 2014 Note matures in February 2014 and bears interest at a floating rate per annum equal to the LIBO rate plus 3.00%, payable quarterly. Starting on June 1, 2010 and continuing through December 31, 2013, MJ&C will make quarterly principal payments of $18,750,000 on the 2014 Note. The affirmative and negative covenants and events of default in the 2014 Note are substantially similar to those contained in the Credit Facility.
2014 Note
E.R. Squibb
On February 17, 2009, MJ&C issued a Fixed Rate Note Due 2016 (the "") to E.R. Squibb in the principal amount of $500,000,000. The Company has guaranteed the obligations of MJ&C under the 2016 Note. The 2016 Note matures in February 2016 and bears interest at a fixed rate per annum equal to 6.43%, payable semiannually. The 2016 Note is not subject to amortization payments. The 2016 Note contains covenants that are applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries, including restrictions on liens, sale and leaseback transactions, substantial asset transfers and mergers. Most of these restrictions are subject to certain minimum thresholds and exceptions. The 2016 Note does not contain any financial covenants. The 2016 Note has customary events of default, including (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods) payment default, failure to comply with covenants, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and change of control.
2016 Note
On February 17, 2009, MJ&C issued a Fixed Rate Note Due 2019 (the "") to E.R. Squibb in the principal amount of $500,000,000. The Company has guaranteed the obligations of MJ&C under the 2019 Note. The 2019 Note matures in February 2019 and bears interest at a fixed rate per annum equal to 6.91%, payable semiannually. The 2019 Note is not subject to amortization payments. The affirmative and negative covenants and events of default in the 2019 Note are substantially similar to those contained in the 2016 Note.
2019 Note
The 2014 Note, 2016 Note and 2019 Note collectively evidence indebtedness that previously was outstanding under a $2,000,000,000 intercompany note issued by the Company on August 26, 2008, as more fully described in the amendment to the Company's registration statement on Form S-1 filed on February 9, 2009.
The Company is a majority-owned subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company ("BMS") and E.R. Squibb is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BMS.
 
The information described above under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 20, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
THREE YEAR REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT (the "") dated as of February 17, 2009, among MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (""), MEAD JOHNSON & COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the BORROWING SUBSIDIARIES (as defined herein), the lenders listed in Schedule 2.1 (the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A, CREDIT SUISSE and MORGAN STANLEY BANK, as Co-Documentation Agents, BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ TRUST COMPANY, ROYAL BANK OF CANADA and UBS SECURITIES LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, CITIBANK, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., a national banking association, as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "").
Agreement
Holdings
Company
Lenders
Administrative Agent
The Company has requested that the Lenders, on the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth, extend credit to the Company and the applicable Borrowing Subsidiaries to enable them to borrow on a standby revolving credit basis and to enable Letters of Credit (such term and each other capitalized term used but not defined elsewhere herein having the meaning assigned to it in Article I) to be issued for the account of the Company and the applicable Borrowing Subsidiaries on and after the date hereof and at any time and from time to time prior to the Maturity Date in a principal amount not in excess of $410,000,000. The proceeds of such borrowings are to be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of Holdings and its subsidiaries (other than funding hostile acquisitions), including commercial paper backup and repurchase of shares. The Lenders are willing to extend such credit on the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth.
Accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.1 As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan is, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing are, bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate. Only Loans denominated in Dollars shall have an ABR pricing option.
ABR
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of "."
Adjustment Date
Applicable Rate
"" shall have the meaning given in the first paragraph hereof.
Administrative Agent
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.11(b).
Administrative Fees
"" shall mean an administrative questionnaire delivered by a Lender pursuant to Section 8.4(e) in form acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" shall mean, when used with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" shall mean for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) 1/2 of one percent above the Federal Funds Effective Rate and (c) the LIBO Rate for a Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Dollars with a one-month Interest period commencing on such day plus 1%. If for any reason JPMCB shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate specified in clause (b) of the first sentence of this definition, for any reason, including the inability or failure of JPMCB to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms hereof, the Alternate Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (b) of the first sentence of this definition until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate shall be effective on the effective date of any change in such rate.
Alternate Base Rate
"" shall mean at any time, Euro, Sterling and, if agreed to by each Lender, any currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available, freely traded and convertible into Dollars in the London market and as to which a Dollar Equivalent can be calculated.
Alternative Currency
"" shall mean, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment; that in the case of Section 2.23 when a Defaulting Lender shall exist, "Applicable Percentage" shall mean the percentage of the total Commitments (disregarding any Defaulting Lender's Commitment) represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, Applicable Percentage shall mean, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Exposure represented by the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure.
Applicable Percentage
provided
"" shall mean initially 2.30% per annum in the case of Eurocurrency Loans; 1.30% per annum in the case of ABR Loans; and 0.20% per annum in the case of the Facility Fee; that on and after the first Adjustment Date, the Applicable Rate will be determined pursuant to the following pricing grid (the ""):
Applicable Rate
provided
Pricing Grid
 
For the purposes of the Pricing Grid, changes in the Applicable Rate resulting from changes in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective on the date (the "") that is three Business Days after the date on which financial statements are delivered to the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.3 and shall remain in effect until the next change to be effected pursuant to this paragraph. If any financial statements referred to above are not delivered within the time periods specified in Section 5.3, then, until the date that is three Business Days after the date on which such financial statements are delivered, the highest rate set
Adjustment Date
 
forth in each column of the Pricing Grid shall apply. Each determination of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio pursuant to the Pricing Grid shall be made in a manner consistent with the determination thereof pursuant to Section 5.13(a).
"" shall mean an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee in the form of Exhibit B.
Assignment and Acceptance
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.4(b).
Assuming Lender
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.4(b)(ii).
Assumption Agreement
"" shall mean the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation.
BMS
"" shall mean (a) the Floating Rate Note Due 2014 dated February 17, 2009 issued by the Company to E.R. Squibb & Sons, L.L.C. in the principal amount of $744,246,256, (b) the Fixed Rate Note Due 2016 dated February 17, 2009 issued by the Company to E.R. Squibb & Sons, L.L.C. in the principal amount of $500,000,000 and (c) the Fixed Rate Note Due 2019 dated February 17, 2009 issued by the Company to E.R. Squibb & Sons, L.L.C. in the principal amount of $500,000,000.
BMS Intercompany Debt
"" shall mean (i) the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary, or (ii) upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 5.17, Holdings or any Borrowing Subsidiary.
Borrower
"" shall mean the due and punctual payment of (i) the principal of and interest on any Loans made by the Lenders, the Swingline Lender or any of them to the Borrowers or any of them pursuant to this Agreement, when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise and (ii) all other monetary obligations, including reimbursement obligations, fees, costs, expenses and indemnities (including the obligations described in Section 2.19) of the Borrowers to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (or, in the case of Hedge Agreements and Specified Cash Management Agreements, any Affiliate of any Lender) under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, any Hedge Agreement and any Specified Cash Management Agreement.
Borrower Obligations
"" shall mean (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period and a single Currency are in effect or (b) a Swingline Loan or group of Swingline Loans of the same Type made on the same date.
Borrowing
"" shall mean a request by the Company for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.3.
Borrowing Request
 
"" shall mean any Subsidiary of Holdings designated as a Borrowing Subsidiary by Holdings pursuant to Section 2.19.
Borrowing Subsidiary
"" shall mean a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit D.
Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement
"" shall mean a Borrowing Subsidiary Termination substantially in the form of Exhibit E.
Borrowing Subsidiary Termination
"" shall mean any day (other than a day which is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of New York) on which banks are open for business in New York City; , , that, when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude (i) any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits or in the applicable Alternative Currency in the London interbank market, (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Loan denominated in Euros, any day on which the TARGET payment system is not open for settlement of payment in Euros or (iii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency other than Sterling or Euro, any day on which banks are not open for dealings in such Alternative Currency in the city which is the principal financial center of the country of issuance of the applicable Alternative Currency.
Business Day
provided
however
"" of any Person shall mean the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of this Agreement, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" shall mean any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
"" shall be deemed to have occurred if (a) any Person or group of Persons (other than (i) BMS or its Subsidiaries or (ii) any employee or director benefit plan or stock plan of Holdings or a Subsidiary or any trustee or fiduciary with respect to any such plan when acting in that capacity or any trust related to any such plan) shall have acquired beneficial ownership of shares representing more than 20% of the combined voting power represented by the outstanding Voting Shares of Holdings (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder), or (b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, commencing before or after the date of this Agreement, individuals who on the first day of such period were directors of Holdings (together with any replacement or additional directors who were nominated or elected by a majority of directors then in office) cease to constitute a majority of the board of directors of Holdings.
Change in Control
"" shall mean (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation
Change in Law
 
or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
"" shall mean the China Services Agreement, dated as of February 10, 2009, between BMS and Holdings.
China Services Agreement
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan is, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" shall mean, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans, and/or to make or participate in Swingline Loans and/or to issue or participate in Letters of Credit, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.8, (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 2.18 or 8.4 or (c) increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.4. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.1, or in the Assignment and Acceptance or Assumption Agreement pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $410,000,000.
Commitment
"" shall have the meaning given in the first paragraph hereof.
Company
"" shall mean the Confidential Information Memorandum dated January 2009 which was furnished to the Lenders.
Confidential Information Memorandum
"" shall mean, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period , without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) interest expense, amortization or write-off of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Debt (including the Loans), (c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) costs, expenses and charges related to the IPO and the separation of the Mead Johnson Division from BMS not to exceed $31,000,000 in 2009, $22,000,000 in 2010 and $5,000,000 in 2011, as set forth on Schedule 1.1, (e) amortization of intangibles (including goodwill) and organization costs and (f) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or losses or other non-cash charges (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, non-cash losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business) which Holdings reasonably believes will not result in a cash charge or payment, and , to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (i) interest income and (ii) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
 
such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business) and any other non-cash income, all as determined on a consolidated basis. For the purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (each, a "") pursuant to any determination of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, (A) if at any time during such Reference Period Holdings or any Subsidiary shall have made any Material Disposition, the Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if positive) attributable to the property that is the subject of such Material Disposition for such Reference Period or increased by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if negative) attributable thereto for such Reference Period and (B) if during such Reference Period Holdings or any Subsidiary shall have made a Material Acquisition, Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be calculated after giving effect thereto as if such Material Acquisition occurred on the first day of such Reference Period. As used in this definition, "Material Acquisition" means any acquisition of property or series of related acquisitions of property that (1) constitutes assets comprising all or substantially all of an operating unit of a business or constitutes all or substantially all of the common stock of a Person and (2) involves the payment of consideration by Holdings and its Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000; and "Material Disposition" means any Disposition of property or series of related Dispositions of property that yields gross proceeds to Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Consolidated EBITDA shall be deemed to be (w) $177,300,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about December 31, 2007, (x) $219,800,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about March 31, 2008, (y) $200,500,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about June 30, 2008 and (z) $185,400,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about September 30, 2008. Consolidated EBITDA for the fiscal quarter ending on or about January 1, 2009 and for the portion of the fiscal quarter ending on or about March 31, 2009 prior to the Effective Date shall be determined based on the financial results of the Mead Johnson Division for such periods.
Reference Period
pro
forma
"" shall mean, for any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
"" shall mean, for any period, total interest expense of Holdings and its Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. Notwithstanding the forgoing, Consolidated Interest Expense shall be deemed to be (i) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about December 31, 2007, (ii) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about March 31, 2008, (iii) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about June 30, 2008, (iv) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about September 30, 2008, (v) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about December 31, 2008 and (vi) the pro rata portion of $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter beginning on or about January 1, 2009 until the Effective Date.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" shall mean, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
"" shall mean, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that there shall be excluded, without duplication, (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of Holdings
Consolidated Net Income
provided
 
or is merged into or consolidated with Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of Holdings) in which Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by Holdings or such Subsidiary in the form of dividends or similar distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of Holdings to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of any Contractual Obligation (other than under any Loan Document or the BMS Intercompany Debt) applicable to such Subsidiary.
"" shall mean, at any date, the aggregate amount of all indebtedness of Holdings and its Subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, plus, without duplication, the aggregate amount of Guarantees by Holdings and its Subsidiaries of obligations of other Persons (other than Holdings and its Subsidiaries) that would be treated as indebtedness of such Persons determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Debt
"" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" shall have the meaning given in Section 4.2.
Credit Event
"" shall mean Holdings, any Borrower or any Subsidiary Guarantor.
Credit Party
"" shall mean Dollars or any Alternative Currency.
Currency
"" of any Person shall mean (i) all obligations represented by notes, bonds, debentures or similar evidences of indebtedness; (ii) all indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services other than, in the case of any such deferred purchase price, on normal trade terms; (iii) all rental obligations as lessee under leases which shall have been or should be recorded as Capital Lease Obligations; (iv) all indebtedness of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (v) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit, surety bonds or similar arrangements; (vi) the liquidation value of all preferred Capital Stock of such Person which is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof or which may become (by scheduled or mandatory redemption) due within one year of the final Maturity Date; (vii) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vi) above, (viii) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vii) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by the applicable Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation; and (ix) for the purposes of paragraph (f) of Article VI only, all obligations in respect of Hedge Agreements. The Debt of any Person shall include Debt of any other entity (including any
Debt
 
partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefore as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Debt expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
"" shall mean any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" shall mean any Lender, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to fund any portion of its Loans or participations in Letters of Credit or Swingline Loans within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) notified the Company, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement or under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Loans and participations in then outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans, (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (e) (i) become or is insolvent or has a parent company that has become or is insolvent or (ii) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment or has a parent company that has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; that the Administrative Agent shall provide written notice to any Lender determined by the Administrative Agent to be a Defaulting Lender hereunder (and the Administrative Agent shall provide a copy of such determination to Holdings).
Defaulting Lender
provided
"" shall mean, with respect to any property, any sale, lease, sale and leaseback, assignment, conveyance, transfer or other disposition thereof. The terms "" and "" shall have correlative meanings.
Disposition
Dispose
Disposed of
"" shall mean on any date, with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount, determined by the Administrative Agent using the Exchange Rate in effect for such Alternative Currency at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such date; , , that with respect to determining the amount of any Loan that is being made, the Dollar Equivalent shall be determined on the date of the relevant Borrowing Request that resulted in the making of such Loan. As appropriate, amounts specified herein as amounts in Dollars shall be or include any relevant Dollar Equivalent amount.
Dollar Equivalent
provided
however
"" or "" shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.1 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 8.7).
Effective Date
"" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America, or any State thereof, and having total assets in excess of $10,000,000,000; (d) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development or has concluded special lending arrangements with the International Monetary Fund associated with its General Arrangements to Borrow, or a political subdivision of any such country, and having total assets in excess of $10,000,000,000, so long as such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in the country in which it is organized or another country that is described in this clause (d); and (e) any other Person approved by the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, by the Company, such approvals not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; that neither the Company nor any Affiliate thereof shall be an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council (including the European Council regulations) for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of the Euro in one or more member states.
EMU Legislation
"" shall mean any and all applicable current and future treaties, laws (including common law), regulations, enforceable requirements, binding determinations, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, permits, approvals, authorizations, licenses, permissions, written notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered by any Governmental Authority, relating to the environment, to employee health or safety as it pertains to the use or handling of, or exposure to, any hazardous substance or contaminant, to preservation or reclamation of natural resources or to the management, release or threatened release of any hazardous substance, contaminant, or noxious odor, including the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 and the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977, the Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended, the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended, any similar or implementing state law, all amendments of any of them, and any regulations promulgated under any of them.
Environmental and Safety Laws
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" shall mean any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Company, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" shall mean (i) a "Reportable Event" described in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued thereunder (other than a "Reportable Event" not subject to the provision for 30-day notice to the PBGC under such regulations), or (ii) the
ERISA Termination Event
 
withdrawal of the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a "single employer" Plan during a plan year in which it was a "substantial employer", both of such terms as defined in Section 4001(a) of ERISA, or (iii) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Plan or the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 of ERISA, or (iv) the institution of proceedings to terminate a Plan by the PBGC or (v) any other event or condition which is reasonably likely to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan or (vi) the partial or complete withdrawal of Holdings or any ERISA Affiliate of Holdings from a Multiemployer Plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
"" shall mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States of the European monetary union.
Euro
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan is, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing are, bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the LIBO Rate.
Eurocurrency
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Article VI.
Event of Default
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" shall mean, with respect to any Alternative Currency on a particular date, the rate at which such Alternative Currency may be exchanged into Dollars, as set forth on such date on the applicable Reuters World Currency Page with respect to such Alternative Currency; , that the Company may make a one time election, with the approval of the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld), to use Bloomberg currency pages to determine the Exchange Rate instead of Reuters currency pages. In the event that such rate does not appear on the applicable Reuters World Currency Page, or Bloomberg currency page, as the case may be, the Exchange Rate with respect to such Alternative Currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and the Company or, in the absence of such agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the Administrative Agent's spot rate of exchange in the London interbank market or other market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such Alternative Currency is then being conducted, at or about 11:00 A.M., local time, at such date for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency for delivery two Business Days later; , , that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Exchange Rate
provided
provided
however
"" shall mean a letter from the Company requesting an extension of the Maturity Date.
Extension Letter
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.11(a).
Facility Fee
"" shall mean, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as released on the next succeeding Business Day by the
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so released for any day which is a Business Day, the arithmetic average (rounded upwards to the next 1/100th of 1%), as determined by the Administrative Agent, of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
"" of any corporation shall mean the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer or treasurer of such corporation.
Financial Officer
"" shall mean, with respect to any Borrower, any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which such Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" shall mean the Form S-1 filed on December 18, 2008 by Holdings with the SEC with respect to the IPO, as amended by Form S-1/A filed on January 13, 2009, as amended by Form S-1/A filed on January 28, 2009, as amended by Form S-1/A filed on February 5, 2009, as further amended from time to time in accordance with Section 5.16.
Form S-1 Filing
"" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" shall mean the government of any nation, including the United States of America, or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") shall mean any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Debt or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" shall mean the collective reference to Holdings, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors.
Guarantor
"" shall mean any toxic, radioactive, mutagenic, carcinogenic, noxious, caustic or otherwise hazardous substance, material or waste, including petroleum, its derivatives, by-products and other hydrocarbons, including polychlorinated
Hazardous Substances
 
biphenyls ("PCBs"), asbestos or asbestos-containing material, and any substance, waste or material regulated or that could reasonably be expected to result in liability under Environmental and Safety Laws.
"" shall mean all interest rate swaps, caps or collar agreements or similar arrangements dealing with interest rates or currency exchange rates or the exchange of nominal interest obligations, either generally or under specific contingencies.
Hedge Agreements
"" shall have the meaning given in the first paragraph hereof.
Holdings
"" shall have the meaning given in Section 2.4(a).
Increasing Lender
"" shall mean a request by the Company to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.7.
Interest Election Request
"" shall mean (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
"" shall mean as to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is 1, 2, 3 or 6 months thereafter, as the Company may elect; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" shall mean the initial public offering of Class A common stock of Holdings described in the Form S-1 Filing.
IPO
"" shall mean JPMCB.
Issuing Agent
"" shall mean JPMCB and each other Lender which agrees to issue Letters of Credit, in its capacity as the issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.22.
Issuing Lender
"" shall mean JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its successors.
JPMCB
 
"" shall mean a payment made by the Issuing Lender pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" shall mean, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrowers at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
plus
"" shall mean, with respect to any Issuing Lender, the maximum drawable amount and unreimbursed LC Disbursements in respect of Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Lender, as agreed to by the Company and such Issuing Lender from time to time.
LC Sublimit
"" shall mean (a) the financial institutions listed on Schedule 2.1 (other than any such financial institution that has ceased to be a party hereto, pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance) and (b) any financial institution that has become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance or an Assumption Agreement.
Lenders
"" shall mean any letter of credit (including any Several Letter of Credit) issued pursuant to Section 2.22.
Letter of Credit
"" shall mean:
LIBO Rate
(a) With respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, (i) the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate appearing on the appropriate Telerate screen (with respect to deposits in Dollars, Sterling or the applicable Alternative Currency (other than Euros)) ("") or (ii) on the applicable page of the Telerate Service sponsored by the Banking Federation of the European Union and the Financial Markets Association (with respect to deposits in Euros) (or in either case on any successor or substitute page of either such service, or any successor to or substitute for either such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Dollars, Euros or the applicable Alternative Currency, as applicable, in the London interbank market) (A) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Alternative Currency with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period or (B) for Sterling, on the Business Day commencing such Interest Period, as the rate of deposit comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that any such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be determined by reference to such other comparable publicly available service for displaying eurocurrency rates as may be selected by the Administrative Agent or, in the absence of such availability, by reference to the rate at which the Administrative Agent is offered deposits in the applicable Currency at or about 11:00 A.M., New York City time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the interbank eurodollar market where its eurocurrency and foreign currency and exchange operations are then being conducted for such Currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein.
BBA LIBO
LIBO Rate
 
(b) For any interest rate calculation with respect to an ABR Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBO at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the date of determination (provided that if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the ABR Loan being made or converted by JPMCB and with a term equal to one month would be offered by JPMCB's London branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
"" shall mean any mortgage, lien, pledge, encumbrance, charge or security interest.
Lien
"" means this Agreement, each Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement, each Borrowing Subsidiary Termination, each Subsidiary Guarantee and each promissory note held by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.9(e).
Loan Documents
"" shall mean the loans made by the Lenders or the Swingline Lender to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" shall mean with respect to (i) fundings, payments and prepayments in Dollars, New York City time, and (ii) fundings, payments and prepayments in any Alternative Currency, London, England time.
Local Time
"" shall mean Regulations T, U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America as from time to time in effect, and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Margin Regulations
"" shall mean a material adverse effect on the business, operations, properties or financial condition of Holdings and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
"" shall mean February 17, 2012, subject to extension pursuant to Section 2.5.
Maturity Date
"" shall have the meaning given in Section 3.5(b).
Mead Johnson Division
"" shall have the meaning given in Section 2.21(a).
Negotiated Rate
"" shall mean Swingline Loans bearing interest at a Negotiated Rate.
Negotiated Rate Swingline Loans
"" shall mean Holdings and, with respect to the obligations of any Borrowing Subsidiary (and, in the circumstances described in Section 5.17, of Holdings), the Company.
Original Guarantors
 
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the Federal Funds Effective Rate, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum in an amount approximately equal to the Administrative Agent's overdraft cost charged by its correspondent bank.
Overnight Rate
"" means a member of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the Euro as its currency in accordance with EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" shall mean (i) Debt of any Subsidiary under any Loan Document, (ii) Debt of any Subsidiary to any Credit Party, (iii) Guarantees by the Company of any Debt of any Subsidiary, (iv) Debt consisting of BMS Intercompany Debt or Refinancing Debt and any Guarantee thereof, (v) the Promissory Note dated January 31, 2009 issued by Mead Johnson Nutrition Venezuela S.C.A. to Bristol-Myers de Venezuela S.C.A., in the principal amount of Bs.F. 12,370,550 and (vi) unsecured trade accounts payable and other unsecured current Debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and not more than 120 days past due (but excluding any Debt for borrowed money).
Permitted Subsidiary Debt
"" shall mean any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" shall mean any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA), subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code that is maintained for current or former employees, or any beneficiary thereof, of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" shall mean the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMCB as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City (the Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by JPMCB in connection with extensions of credit to debtors).
Prime Rate
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 5.17.
Refinancing Debt
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 8.4(d).
Register
"" shall mean, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 2.5(a).
Response Date
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 5.18.
Restricted Payment
"" shall mean, with respect to any Lender at any time, the Dollar Equivalent equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans at such time, (b) such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Swingline Loans at such time and (c) such Lender's LC Exposure.
Revolving Credit Exposure
 
"" shall mean a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.3.
Revolving Loan
"" shall mean any arrangement with any Person pursuant to which Holdings or any Subsidiary leases any property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by Holdings or the Subsidiary to such Person.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean (i) the China Services Agreement, (ii) the Separation Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2009, among BMS, Holdings and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., (iii) the Transitional Services Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2009, between BMS and Holdings, and (iv) the Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2009, between BMS and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc.
Separation Agreements
"" shall have the meaning given in Section 2.22(i).
Several Letter of Credit
"" when used with respect to any Person, shall mean that, as of any date of determination, (a) the amount of the "present fair saleable value" of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, exceed the amount of all "liabilities of such Person, contingent or otherwise", as of such date, as such quoted terms are determined in accordance with applicable federal and state laws governing determinations of such insolvency of debtors, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the liability of such Person on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured, (c) such Person will not have, as of such date, an unreasonably small amount of capital with which to conduct its business, and (d) such Person will be able to pay its debts as they mature. For purposes of this definition, (i) "debt" means liability on a "claim", and (ii) "claim" means any (x) right to payment, whether or not such a right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured or (y) right to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise to a right to payment, whether or not such right to an equitable remedy is reduced to judgment, fixed, contingent, matured or unmatured, disputed, secured or unsecured.
Solvent
"" shall mean any agreement providing for treasury, depositary, purchasing card, overdraft or cash management services, including in connection with any automated clearing house transfers of funds or any similar transactions between Holdings or any Subsidiary and any Lender or Affiliate thereof.
Specified Cash Management Agreement
"" shall mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, (i) for purposes of Sections 5.11 and 5.14 only, any Person the majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent of such Person and (ii) for all other purposes under this Agreement, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such
subsidiary
parent
 
financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held.
"" shall mean a subsidiary of Holdings.
Subsidiary
"" shall mean the Guarantee of the Borrower Obligations substantially in the form of Exhibit F.
Subsidiary Guarantee
"" shall mean each Subsidiary of Holdings which is required to enter into the Subsidiary Guarantee pursuant to Section 5.17, if any.
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" shall mean at any time the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Swingline Borrowings at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall mean its Applicable Percentage of the aggregate Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
"" shall mean JPMCB in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
"" shall mean a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.21.
Swingline Loan
"" shall mean any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority and all liabilities with respect thereto.
Taxes
"" means the consummation of the IPO and related transactions, the execution and delivery by the Credit Parties of the Loan Documents, (or, in the case of the Borrowing Subsidiaries, the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements), the performance by the Credit Parties of the Loan Documents, the borrowing of the Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
"", when used in respect of any Loan or Borrowing, shall refer to the Rate by reference to which interest on such Loan or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing is determined. For purposes hereof, "Rate" shall include the LIBO Rate and the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" shall mean, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments with respect to the term of the lease remaining on the date as of which the amount is being determined, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease, discounted at an interest rate determined by the Company at the time so long as such interest rate is customary for leases of such type.
Value
"" shall mean, as applied to the stock of any corporation, stock of any class or classes (however designated) having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors (or other governing body) of such corporation other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
"" of any Person shall mean a subsidiary of such Person of which securities (except for directors' qualifying shares) or other ownership interests representing 100% of the equity are, at the time any determination is being made, owned by such Person or one or more wholly owned subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more wholly owned subsidiaries of such Person.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
Section 1.2 . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
Section 1.3 . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
Section 1.4 . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if the Company notifies the Administrative Agent that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision shall have been amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
Section 2.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Company and any Borrowing Subsidiary from time to time during the Availability Period in Dollars, Sterling, Euros or any other Alternative
Commitments
 
Currency in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company and each applicable Borrowing Subsidiary may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
Section 2.2 . i) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; provided that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Loans and Borrowings
(a) Subject to Section 2.13, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans (which shall be denominated in Dollars) or Eurocurrency Loans as the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other applicable Borrower) may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of any Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
(b) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate Dollar Equivalent amount of at least $10,000,000 and shall be an integral multiple of 1,000,000 units of the applicable Currency. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000; that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. ABR Loans shall be denominated only in Dollars. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of ten Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
(d) Each Lender may, at its option, make any Loan available to any Subsidiary Borrower by causing any foreign or domestic branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; provided that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of such Subsidiary Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.3 . To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other applicable Borrower) shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., Local Time three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
 
time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in the form of Exhibit A. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.2:
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, (A) the Currency of the requested Borrowing and (B) the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period";
(v) the location and number of the account of the Borrowers to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.6; and
(vi) the applicable Borrower.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no election as to the Currency of the Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be denominated in Dollars. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Borrowing, then the Company shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
Section 2.4 . ii) The Company may, at any time but in any event not more than once in any calendar quarter, by means of a letter to the Administrative Agent, request that the aggregate Commitments be increased (a "Commitment Increase") as of the date specified in such letter (the "Increase Date") by (i) increasing the Commitment of one or more Lenders that have agreed to such increase (an "Increasing Lender") (it being understood that no Lender shall have any obligation to increase its Commitment pursuant to this Section 2.4) and/or (ii) adding one or more Eligible Assignees as a party hereto with a Commitment in an amount agreed to by such Eligible Assignee; provided that (A) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the aggregate Commitments exceed $500,000,000 and (B) the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or more.
Increase in the Commitments
iii) On each Increase Date, (x) each Eligible Assignee that has agreed to participate in the requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.4(a) (each, an "") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement with a Commitment in the amount set forth in its Assumption Agreement, (y) the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be increased by the amount set forth in its confirmation as provided in clause (b)(ii)(C) below, and (z) participating interests in then
Assuming Lender
 
outstanding Letters of Credit shall be reallocated to reflect the respective Applicable Percentages of the Lenders from time to time, and payments in respect of Letters of Credit shall be adjusted to reflect such participating interests; that:
provided
(i) on such Increase Date, the following statements shall be true and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of Holdings, dated such Increase Date, stating that: (A) the representations and warranties contained in Article 3 (except for any such representation and warranty that by its terms refers to a date prior to such Increase Date but including the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 3.5(c) and 3.6(a)) are correct on and as of such Increase Date, before and after giving effect to the Commitment Increase, as though made on and as of such Increase Date, (B) no Material Adverse Change has occurred since the date of the financial statements most-recently delivered pursuant to Section 5.3(a), and (C) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the Commitment Increase, that constitutes a Default;
(ii) on or before such Increase Date, the Administrative Agent shall have received the following, each dated such Increase Date: (A) such approvals or documents as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in connection with such Commitment Increase; (B) an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company and the Administrative Agent (each an ""), duly executed by such Eligible Assignee, the Administrative Agent and the Company; (C) written confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the amount of the increase in its Commitment; and (D) customary legal opinions.
Assumption Agreement
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.4(b), the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders (including each Assuming Lender) and the Company of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date. Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, make available for the account of its applicable lending office to the Administrative Agent, in same day funds, an aggregate amount to be distributed to the other Lenders for the account of their respective applicable lending offices such that the aggregate amount of the outstanding Loans owing to each Lender after giving effect to such distribution equals such Lender's ratable portion of the Loans then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase). The Credit Parties acknowledge that, in order to maintain Loans in accordance with each Lender's ratable share thereof, a reallocation of the Commitments as a result of a non-pro-rata increase in the aggregate Commitments may require prepayment of all or portions of certain Loans on the date of such increase. Fees and interest shall be paid to reflect any such Commitment Increase.
 
Section 2.5 .
Extension of Maturity Date
(a) The Company may, by sending an Extension Letter to the Administrative Agent (in which case the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders), during the period of not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to any anniversary of the Effective Date, request that the Lenders extend the Maturity Date at the time in effect to the first anniversary of the Maturity Date then in effect. Each Lender, acting in its sole discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not later than the date that is the 20
th
day after the date of the Extension Letter, or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately following Business Day (the "") advise the Administrative Agent in writing whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (each Lender that so advises the Administrative Agent that it will not extend the Maturity Date, being referred to herein as a ""); provided that any Lender that does not advise the Administrative Agent by the Response Date shall be deemed to be a Non-extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to agree.
Response Date
Non-extending Lender
(b) (i) If Lenders holding Commitments that aggregate more than 50% of the total Commitments on the Response Date shall not have agreed to extend the Maturity Date, then the Maturity Date shall not be so extended and the outstanding principal balance of all Loans and other amounts payable hereunder shall be payable on such Maturity Date.
(ii) If (and only if) Lenders holding Commitments that aggregate at least 50% of the total Commitments on the Response Date shall have agreed to extend the Maturity Date, then the Maturity Date applicable to the Lenders that shall so have agreed shall be the first anniversary of the current Maturity Date (subject to satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the last sentence of Section 2.5(c)). In the event of such extension, the Commitment of each Non-extending Lender shall terminate on the Maturity Date in effect prior to such extension, all Loans and other amounts payable hereunder to such Non-extending Lenders shall become due and payable on such Maturity Date and the total Commitment of the Lenders hereunder shall be reduced by the Commitments of the Non-extending Lenders so terminated on such Maturity Date.
(c) In the event that the conditions of clause (ii) of paragraph (b) above have been satisfied, the Company shall have the right on or before the Maturity Date in effect prior to the requested extension, at its own expense, to require any Non-extending Lender to transfer and assign without recourse (except as to title and the absence of Liens created by it) (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 8.4) all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to one or more banks or other financial institutions identified to the Non-extending Lender, which may include any Lender (each an ""), that (x) such Additional Commitment Lender, if not already a Lender hereunder, shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Company (such approvals not to be unreasonably withheld), (y) such assignment shall become effective as of a date specified by the Company (which shall not be later than the Maturity Date in effect prior to the requested extension) and (z) the Additional Commitment Lender shall pay to such Non-extending Lender in immediately available funds on the effective date of such assignment the principal of and interest accrued to the date of payment on the Loans made by it hereunder and all other amounts accrued for its account or owed to it hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no extension of the Maturity Date shall become effective unless on the Response Date the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.2 (including the correctness of the
Additional Commitment Lender
provided
 
representations and warranties set forth in Sections 3.5(c) and 3.6(a)) shall be satisfied (with all references in such paragraphs to a Borrowing being deemed to be references to the Response Date) and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated the Response Date and executed by a Financial Officer of the Company.
Section 2.6 . iv) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds (i) in the case of Dollars, to the account of the Administrative Agent or an Affiliate thereof most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders, by 2:00 p.m., New York time or (ii) in the case of any Alternative Currency, to the account of the Administrative Agent or an Affiliate thereof most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders, by 12:00 p.m., London time. The Administrative Agent will make the proceeds of such Loans available to such Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of such Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City (or, in the case of any Loan with respect to which such Borrower shall have requested funding in an Alternative Currency, to such account in such jurisdiction as such Borrower shall have designated in the applicable Borrowing Request).
Funding of Borrowings
(a) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect or (ii) in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate on the applicable Borrowing; that no repayment by such Borrower pursuant to this sentence shall be deemed to be a prepayment for purposes of Section 2.15. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
provided
Section 2.7 . v) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type and in the Currency specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) may elect to convert such Borrowing (if denominated in Dollars) to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods or Currencies therefor, all as provided in this Section. Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies may not be converted to Loans of a different Type. The Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
Interest Elections
 
(a) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.3 if the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Company.
(b) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.2:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, (A) the Currency of the resulting Borrowing and (B) the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify (x) an Interest Period, then the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration or (y) a Currency, then the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrowing Subsidiary) shall be deemed to have selected a Borrowing denominated in Dollars (in the case of an initial Eurocurrency Borrowing) or the same Currency as the Eurocurrency Borrowing being continued.
(c) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(d) If the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing (i) if denominated in Dollars shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing and (ii) if denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be converted to a one month Interest Period denominated in the same Currency as the Eurocurrency Borrowing being continued. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an
 
Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Company, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Section 2.8 . vi) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
(a) The Company may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
(b) The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Company pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
Section 2.9 . vii) Each Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of its Revolving Loans on the Maturity Date.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
(a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall maintain a Register pursuant to subsection 8.4(d), and an account for each Lender in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder and any promissory note evidencing such Loan, the Class, Type and Currency thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
 
(c) The entries made in the Register and the accounts of each Lender maintained pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of any Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
(d) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the applicable Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 8.4) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its assigns).
Section 2.10 . viii) The applicable Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
Prepayment of Loans
(a) The Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of any other Borrower) shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., Local Time three Business Days before the date of prepayment and (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing (including Swingline Loans), not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.8, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.8. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.2. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12. If a Eurocurrency Loan is prepaid on any day other than the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, the Company shall also pay any amounts owing pursuant to Section 2.15.
provided
Section 2.11 . ix) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee ("") in Dollars which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate for Facility Fee on the average daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) (other than with respect to a Defaulting Lender as provided in Section 2.23(a)) during the period from and including the date hereof to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue
Fees
Facility Fee
provided
 
on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any Facility Fee accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(a) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, the administrative, auction and other fees separately agreed upon between the Company and the Administrative Agent (collectively, the "").
Administrative Fees
(b) The Company agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender (including the Issuing Lender) a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Rate applicable to interest on Eurocurrency Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure and (ii) to each Issuing Lender (including each Lender in the case of a Several Letter of Credit) a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate of 0.25% (or such other rate as may be agreed to by the Company and the applicable Issuing Lender) per annum on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) attributable to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Lender during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as such Issuing Lender's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees shall be payable on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to an Issuing Lender pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable promptly after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of facility fees and utilization fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Section 2.12 . x) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate for ABR Loans.
Interest
(a) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Loans.
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by any Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(d) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that (i) interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at a time when the Alternate Base Rate is based on clause (a) of the first sentence of the definition of Alternate Base Rate and (ii) interest for Loans in Alternative Currencies denominated in Sterling shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.13 . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be made in good faith and shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Company (on its own behalf or on behalf of the applicable Borrower) and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made in Dollars as an ABR Borrowing; that (A) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted and (B) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Currency, then Borrowings in other Currencies shall be permitted.
then
provided
 
Section 2.14 . xi) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or issuing or participating in Letters of Credit by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then the applicable Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made or participated in by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, then from time to time the Company will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, and setting forth in reasonable detail the manner in which such amount or amounts shall have been determined, shall be delivered to the applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrowers shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 60 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies such Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 60-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
 
(e) If the cost to any Lender of making or maintaining any Loan to a Borrowing Subsidiary incorporated or organized in a jurisdiction other than the United States of America or any state thereof is increased (or the amount of any sum received or receivable by any Lender or its lending office is reduced) by an amount deemed by such Lender to be material, by reason of the fact that such Borrowing Subsidiary is incorporated or organized in a jurisdiction outside of the United States of America, such Borrowing Subsidiary shall indemnify such Lender for such increased cost or reduction within fifteen (15) days after demand by such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), which such Lender shall make within sixty (60) days from the day such Lender has notice of such increased cost or reduction; , , this Section 2.14(e) shall not apply to Taxes which are governed by Section 2.16.
provided
however
Section 2.15 . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.10(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by any Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the out-of-pocket loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the present value of the excess, if any, of (i) its cost of obtaining the funds for the Loan being paid, prepaid, refinanced or not borrowed (assumed to be the LIBO Rate applicable thereto) for the period from the date of such payment, prepayment, refinancing or failure to borrow or refinance to the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow or refinance the Interest Period for such Loan which would have commenced on the date of such failure) over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) that would be realized by such Lender in reemploying the funds so paid, prepaid or not borrowed or refinanced for such period or Interest Period, as the case may be. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section and setting forth in reasonable detail the manner in which such amount or amounts shall have been determined shall be delivered to the applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Such Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
Section 2.16 . xii) Any and all payments to the Lenders or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Document or with respect to any Letter of Credit by a Borrower or on behalf of any Borrower shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all current or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding (i) net income taxes and franchise taxes (imposed in lieu of net income taxes) imposed on the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or participant) as a result of a present or former connection between the Administrative Agent or such Lender (or participant) and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than as a result of entering into this Agreement, performing any obligations hereunder, receiving any payments hereunder or enforcing any rights hereunder) and (ii) any taxes that are attributable solely to the failure of any
Taxes
 
Non-U.S. Lender (as defined in Section 2.16(g) below) to comply with Section 2.16 (g) or 2.16(h) (all such nonexcluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities, collectively or individually, "Non-Excluded Taxes"). If the relevant Borrower shall be required to deduct any Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes (as defined below) from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or the Administrative Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased by the amount (an "Additional Amount") necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to Additional Amounts payable under this Section 2.16) such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) shall receive an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the relevant Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the relevant Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(a) In addition, the relevant Borrower (or the Company or a Guarantor, as guarantor, as applicable) shall pay to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law any current or future stamp, intangibles or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document ("").
Other Taxes
(b) The relevant Borrower (or the Company or Guarantor, as guarantor, as applicable) shall indemnify each Lender (or participant) and the Administrative Agent for the full amount of Non-Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes paid by such Lender (or participant) or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses)) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability prepared by a Lender, or the Administrative Agent on its behalf and setting forth in reasonable detail the manner in which such amount shall have been determined, absent manifest error, shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes. Such indemnification shall be made within 30 days after the date the Lender or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, makes written demand therefor, which written demand shall be made within 60 days of the date such Lender or the Administrative Agent receives written demand for payment of such Taxes or Other Taxes from the relevant Governmental Authority.
(c) If a Lender (or participant) or the Administrative Agent receives a refund in respect of any Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the relevant Borrower or with respect to which the relevant Borrower has paid Additional Amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall within 30 days from the date of such receipt pay over such refund to the relevant Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or Additional Amounts paid, by the relevant Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Lender (or participant) or the Administrative Agent and without interest (other than interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , , that the relevant Borrower, upon the request of such Lender (or participant) or the Administrative Agent, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the relevant Borrower (plus penalties, interest or other charges) to such Lender (or participant) or the Administrative Agent in the event such Lender (or participant) or the Administrative Agent is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.
provided
however
 
(d) As soon as practicable after the date of any payment of Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes by the relevant Borrower to the relevant Governmental Authority, the relevant Borrower will deliver to the Administrative Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.1, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing payment thereof.
(e) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement contained herein, the agreements and obligations contained in this Section 2.16 shall survive the payment in full of the principal of and interest on all Loans made hereunder.
(f) Each Lender (or participant) that is not a United States Person as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code (a "") shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent two copies of either United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI (or successor forms), or, in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming exemption from U.S. Federal withholding tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of "portfolio interest", a Form W8-BEN, or any subsequent or substitute versions thereof or successors thereto (and a certificate representing that such Non-U.S. Lender is not a bank for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, is not a 10 percent shareholder (within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code) of the Company and is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Company (within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code)), properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Lender claiming complete exemption from, or reduced rate of, U.S. Federal withholding tax on payments by the Company under this Agreement. Such forms shall be delivered by each Non-U.S. Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of a participant, on or before the date such participant becomes a participant hereunder) and on or before the date, if any, such Non-U.S. Lender changes its applicable lending office by designating a different lending office (a ""). In addition, each Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver such forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Non-U.S. Lender. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.16(g), a Non-U.S. Lender shall not be required to deliver any form pursuant to this Section 2.16(g) that such Non-U.S. Lender is not legally able to deliver.
Non-U.S. Lender
New Lending Office
(g) A Lender (or participant) that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of non-U.S. withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which a Borrowing Subsidiary is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrowing Subsidiary (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrowing Subsidiary, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate, that such Lender (or participant) is legally entitled to complete, execute and deliver such documentation and in such Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would not materially prejudice the legal position of such Lender (or participant).
provided
 
(h) The relevant Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any Lender, or to pay any Additional Amounts to any Lender, in respect of any withholding tax pursuant to paragraph (a) or (c) above to the extent that the obligation to withhold amounts with respect to such withholding tax was in effect and would apply to amounts payable to such Lender on the date such Lender became a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of a participant, on the date such participant became a participant hereunder) or, with respect to payments to a New Lending Office, the date such Non-U.S. Lender designated such New Lending Office with respect to a Loan, , , that this paragraph (i) shall not apply to any Lender (or participant) if (A) in the judgment of such Lender (or participant), the Lender (or participant) was unable, using reasonable efforts, to reduce or eliminate any Additional Amount in respect of any withholding tax payable by the relevant Borrower by filing any certificate or document requested by the Company (consistent with legal and regulatory restrictions), designating a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or assigning its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates; , that to the extent that the Lender has so acted and reduced to the extent possible but not eliminated such Additional Amount in respect of any withholding tax, paragraph (i) shall not apply solely to the extent of such reduced Additional Amount in respect of any withholding tax payable by the relevant Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.16 or (B) the assignment, participation, transfer or designation of a New Lending Office was made at the request of the relevant Borrower; and , , that this paragraph (i) shall not apply to the extent the indemnity payment or Additional Amounts any Lender (or participant) would be entitled to receive (without regard to this paragraph (i)) do not exceed the indemnity payment or Additional Amounts that the Lender (or participant) making the assignment, participation, transfer or designation of such New Lending Office would have been entitled to receive in the absence of such assignment, participation, transfer or designation. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each Lender shall remain subject to the obligations under Section 2.18.
provided
however
provided
provided further
however
(i) Nothing contained in this Section 2.16 shall require any Lender (or participant) or the Administrative Agent to make available any of its tax returns (or any other information that it deems to be confidential or proprietary).
Section 2.17 . xiii) Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) prior to 3:00 p.m., local time at the place of payment, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, or such other location as the Administrative Agent shall designate from time to time, except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 8.5 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in Dollars or, in the case of principal of and interest on any Loan
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
 
denominated in an Alternative Currency, the applicable Alternative Currency, as the case may be. Except as provided in clause (c) below, each payment or prepayment of principal or payment of interest in respect of a Borrowing of Revolving Loans shall be allocated ratably among the parties entitled thereto.
(a) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal (including reimbursement of LC Disbursements) then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
(b) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or in respect of its interest in any Letters of Credit resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and accrued interest thereon or its interest in Letters of Credit than the proportion received by any other Lender participating in such Revolving Loan or Letters of Credit, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and Letters of Credit of such other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and Letters of Credit; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by any Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(c) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate in effect from time to time.
 
(d) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.6(b) or 2.17(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
Section 2.18 . xiv) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to file any certificate or document requested by the Company (consistent with legal and regulatory restrictions), to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such filing, designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a) If (i) any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, (ii) any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, (iii) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, or (iv) any Lender does not consent to any proposed amendment, supplement, modification, consent or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document that requires the consent of each of the Lenders or each of the Lenders affected thereby (so long as the consent of the Required Lenders (with the percentage in such definition being deemed to be 66 2/3% for this purpose) has been obtained), then Holdings may, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 8.4, it being agreed the assigning Lender shall be deemed to have consented to an Assignment and Acceptance and shall not be required to execute an Assignment and Acceptance), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if such Lender accepts such assignment); that (A) Holdings shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (B) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or each applicable Borrower (in the case of all other amounts), (C) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments, (D) in the case of an assignment pursuant to clause (iv) above, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (E) the Administrative Agent shall have received a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 with respect to each such assignment to a Person which is not then a Lender.
provided
Section 2.19 . Holdings may designate any Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Holdings as a Borrowing Subsidiary upon ten Business Days notice to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (such notice to include the name, primary business address and tax identification number of such proposed Borrowing Subsidiary). Upon proper
Borrowing Subsidiaries
 
notice and the receipt by the Administrative Agent of a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement executed by such a Wholly Owned Subsidiary and Holdings, such Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall be a Borrowing Subsidiary and a party to this Agreement. A Subsidiary shall cease to be a Borrowing Subsidiary hereunder at such time as no Loans, fees or other amounts due in connection therewith pursuant to the terms hereof shall be outstanding to such Subsidiary and such Subsidiary and Holdings shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a Borrowing Subsidiary Termination.
Section 2.20 .
Prepayments Required Due to Currency Fluctuation
(a) Not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the last Business Day of each fiscal quarter or at such other time as is reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent (the ""), the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposures as of such date.
Calculation Time
(b) If at the Calculation Time, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure exceeds the aggregate Commitments by 5% or more, then within five Business Days after notice thereof to the Company from the Administrative Agent, the Company shall (or cause any Borrowing Subsidiary to) prepay Loans in an aggregate principal amount at least equal to such excess. Nothing set forth in this Section 2.20(b) shall be construed to require the Administrative Agent to calculate compliance under this Section 2.20(b) other than at the times set forth in Section 2.20(a).
Section 2.21 . xv) (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans in Dollars under the Commitments to the Borrower or any Borrowing Subsidiary from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (A) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $10,000,000 or (B) the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments; provided that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans. Swingline Loans shall be in an aggregate amount that is not less than $100,000. Swingline Loans shall be ABR Loans or, subject to the next sentence, a Swingline Loan may bear interest at a fixed or floating rate of interest (a "") separately agreed by the Company and the Swingline Lender. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary (other than Section 2.21(a)(ii), which shall apply to Negotiated Rate Swingline Loans), each Negotiated Rate Swingline Loan shall be subject to such interest rate terms (including as to computation of the applicable interest rate and rate basis, prepayment indemnities, increased cost provisions and repayment) as may be agreed to by the Company and the Swingline Lender, and such terms are incorporated in this Agreement. The Swingline Lender shall have no obligation to agree to a Negotiated Rate or to make any Negotiated Rate Swingline Loans.
Swingline
Negotiated Rate
(i) Each applicable Borrower shall repay to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of (A) the Maturity Date, (B) the 15
th
day after such Swingline Loan is made and (C) the last day of a fiscal quarter
 
of the Swingline Lender; that, notwithstanding the forgoing, each applicable Borrower and the Swingline Lender may agree on another date for repayment for any Swingline Loan.
provided
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, a Borrower or the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary) shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from a Borrower or the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary). The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to such Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of such Borrower with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.22, by remittance to the Issuing Lender) by 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
(c) The Swingline Lender, at any time and from time to time in its sole and absolute discretion may, on behalf of the Company (which hereby irrevocably directs the Swingline Lender to act on its behalf in accordance with this Section), on one Business Day's notice given by the Swingline Lender no later than 12:00 Noon, New York City time, request each Lender to make, and each Lender hereby agrees to make, a Revolving Loan, in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of the Swingline Loans (the "") outstanding on the date of such notice, to repay the Swingline Lender. Each Lender shall make the amount of such Revolving Loan available to the Administrative Agent at the account of the Administrative Agent or an affiliate thereof most recently designated by it for such purposes by notice to the Lenders in immediately available funds, not later than 10:00 A.M., New York City time, one Business Day after the date of such notice. The proceeds of such Revolving Loans shall be immediately made available by the Administrative Agent to the Swingline Lender for application by the Swingline Lender to the repayment of the Refunded Swingline Loans. The Company irrevocably authorizes the Swingline Lender to charge the Company's accounts with the Administrative Agent (up to the amount available in each such account) in order to immediately pay the amount of such Refunded Swingline Loans to the extent amounts received from the Lenders are not sufficient to repay in full such Refunded Swingline Loans.
Refunded Swingline Loans
(d) If prior to the time a Revolving Loan would have otherwise been made pursuant to Section 2.21(c), one of the events described in paragraph (g) or (h) of Section 6 shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to any Borrower or if for any other reason, as determined by the Swingline Lender in its sole discretion, Revolving Loans may not be made as contemplated by Section 2.21(c), each Lender shall, on the date such Revolving Loan was to have been made pursuant to the notice referred to in Section 2.21(c), purchase for cash an undivided participating interest in the then outstanding Swingline Loans by paying to the Swingline Lender an amount (the "") equal to (i) such Lender's Applicable Percentage (ii) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans then outstanding that were to have been repaid with such Revolving Loans.
Swingline Participation Amount
times
 
(e) Whenever, at any time after the Swingline Lender has received from any Lender such Lender's Swingline Participation Amount, the Swingline Lender receives any payment on account of the Swingline Loans, the Swingline Lender will distribute to such Lender its Swingline Participation Amount (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's participating interest was outstanding and funded and, in the case of principal and interest payments, to reflect such Lender's portion of such payment if such payment is not sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on all Swingline Loans then due); , , that in the event that such payment received by the Swingline Lender is required to be returned, such Lender will return to the Swingline Lender any portion thereof previously distributed to it by the Swingline Lender.
pro
rata
provided
however
(f) Each Lender's obligation to make the Loans referred to in Section 2.21(c) and to purchase participating interests pursuant to Section 2.21(d) shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (i) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right that such Lender, the Borrowers or the Guarantors may have against the Swingline Lender, any Borrower, any Guarantor or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (ii) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or an Event of Default or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions specified in Section 4, (iii) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of any Borrower or any Guarantor, (iv) any breach of this Agreement or any other Loan Document by any Borrower, any other Credit Party or any other Lender or (v) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.
Section 2.22 . xvi) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Borrower and the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary) may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account (including for the account of any Borrowing Subsidiary), in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lender (or, in the case of a Several Letter of Credit, the Lenders), at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by a Borrower or the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary) to, or entered into by a Borrower or the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary) with, the Issuing Lender relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control. At the request of a Borrower or the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary), any Letter of Credit may be issued for the joint and several account of such Borrower and another Borrower.
Letters of Credit
General
(a) . To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), a Borrower or the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary) shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Issuing Lender) to the Issuing Lender and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension, the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section 2.22), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
 
the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the Issuing Lender, such Borrower or the Company (on behalf of any Borrowing Subsidiary) also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Issuing Lender's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit, the Company shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $50,000,000, (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Commitments, (iii) the LC Exposure of any Issuing Lender shall not exceed such Issuing Lender's LC Sublimit.
(b) . Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date; that an Issuing Lender may elect to issue a Letter of Credit with an expiration date extending beyond the Maturity Date if the Company agrees that it will, on the Maturity Date (or such earlier date as may be requested by the Issuing Lender), deliver to such Issuing Lender cash collateral in an amount equal to 103% of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit pursuant to documentation reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and such Issuing Lender.
Expiration Date
provided
(c) . (i) The Issuing Lender irrevocably agrees to grant and hereby grants to each Lender, and, to induce the Issuing Lender to issue Letters of Credit, each Lender irrevocably agrees to accept and purchase and hereby accepts and purchases from the Issuing Lender, on the terms and conditions set forth below, for such Lender's own account and risk an undivided interest equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage in the Issuing Lender's obligations and rights under and in respect of each Letter of Credit and the amount of each draft paid by the Issuing Lender thereunder. Each Lender agrees with the Issuing Lender that, if a draft is paid under any Letter of Credit for which the Issuing Lender is not reimbursed in full by the Borrowers in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such Lender shall pay to the Issuing Lender upon demand at the Issuing Lender's address for notices specified herein an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of such draft, or any part thereof, that is not so reimbursed. Each Lender's obligation to pay such amount shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (1) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right that such Lender may have against the Issuing Lender, any Borrower, any Guarantor or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (ii) the occurrence or continuance of a Default or an Event of Default or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions specified in Section 4, (iii) any adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise) of any Borrower or any Guarantor, (iv) any breach of this Agreement or any other Credit Document by any Borrower, any other Credit Party or any other Lender or (v) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing
Participations
(i) If any amount required to be paid by any Lender to the Issuing Lender pursuant to Section 2.22(d)(i) in respect of any unreimbursed portion of any payment made by the Issuing Lender under any Letter of Credit is paid to the Issuing Lender within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, such Lender shall pay to the Issuing Lender on demand an amount equal to the product of (i) such amount,
times
 
(ii) the daily average Federal Funds Effective Rate during the period from and including the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Issuing Lender, (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days that elapse during such period and the denominator of which is 360. If any such amount required to be paid by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.22(d)(i) is not made available to the Issuing Lender by such Lender within three Business Days after the date such payment is due, the Issuing Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender, on demand, such amount with interest thereon calculated from such due date at the rate per annum applicable to ABR Loans. A certificate of the Issuing Lender submitted to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing under this Section shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.
times
(ii) Whenever, at any time after the Issuing Lender has made payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender its share of such payment in accordance with Section 2.22(d)(i), the Issuing Lender receives any payment related to such Letter of Credit (whether directly from any Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of collateral applied thereto by the Issuing Lender), or any payment of interest on account thereof, the Issuing Lender will distribute to such Lender its pro rata share thereof; , , that in the event that any such payment received by the Issuing Lender shall be required to be returned by the Issuing Lender, such Lender shall return to the Issuing Lender the portion thereof previously distributed by the Issuing Lender to it.
pro
rata
provided
however
(d) . If the Issuing Lender shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if such Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by such Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately following the day that such Borrower receives such notice; that a Borrower or the Company (on behalf of the applicable Borrowing Subsidiary) may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.3 or 2.21 that such payment be financed with a Revolving Loan or Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, such Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting Revolving Loan or Swingline Loan. If such Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from such Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from such Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.6 with respect to Revolving Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.6 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Issuing Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Issuing Lender or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Lender, then to
Reimbursement
provided
mutatis
mutandis
 
such Lenders and the Issuing Lender as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Lender for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
(e) . Each Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section 2.22 shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of:
Obligations Absolute
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein;
(ii) any amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from all or any of the provisions of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement;
(iii) the existence of any claim, setoff, defense or other right that any Borrower, any other party guaranteeing, or otherwise obligated with, any Borrower, any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof or any other Person may at any time have against the beneficiary under any Letter of Credit, the Issuing Lender, the Issuing Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement or any other related or unrelated agreement or transaction;
(iv) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
(v) payment by the Issuing Lender under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; and
(vi) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind of the Issuing Lender, the Issuing Agent, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent or any other Person or any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section 2.22, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of any Borrower's obligations hereunder.
None of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Issuing Lender, the Issuing Agent or any of their Affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder, including any of the circumstances specified in clauses (i) through (vi) above, as well as any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Lender or the Issuing Agent; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the Issuing Lender and the Issuing Agent from liability to a Borrower to the extent of any
provided
 
direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by the Issuing Lender's or Issuing Agent's, as applicable, failure to exercise the agreed standard of care (as set forth below) in determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that the Issuing Lender and the Issuing Agent shall have exercised the agreed standard of care in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Issuing Lender or Issuing Agent, as applicable. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is understood that the Issuing Lender and Issuing Agent may accept documents that appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and may make payment upon presentation of documents that appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit; that each of the Issuing Lender and the Issuing Agent shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to decline to accept such documents and to make such payment if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit. As used in this paragraph (f), the term "Issuing Lender" includes each Issuing Lender in respect of the Several Letters of Credit. No Issuing Lender in respect of a Several Letter of Credit shall have any liability to any Borrower as a result of any action taken or not taken or any determination made by the Issuing Agent.
provided
(f) . If any draft shall be presented for payment under any Letter of Credit, the Issuing Lender shall promptly notify the Company of the date and amount thereof. The responsibility of the Issuing Lender to the Borrowers in connection with any draft presented for payment under any Letter of Credit shall, in addition to any payment obligation expressly provided for in such Letter of Credit, be limited to determining that the documents (including each draft) delivered under such Letter of Credit in connection with such presentment are substantially in conformity with such Letter of Credit.
Disbursement Procedures
(g) . If the Issuing Lender shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrowers shall reimburse (including with the proceeds of Loans as provided in Section 2.22(e)) such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrowers reimburse such LC Disbursement at the rate per annum specified in Section 2.12(a) that, if the Borrowers fail to reimburse (including with the proceeds of Loans as provided in Section 2.22(e)) such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 2.22, then Section 2.12(c) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the Issuing Lender, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 2.22 to reimburse the Issuing Lender shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
provided
(h) . (i) In the event that the Borrowers require Letters of Credit in an aggregate drawable amount that exceeds the aggregate LC Sublimits of the Issuing Lenders, then the Company may request that Letters of Credit be issued by the Lenders on a several basis (each, a ""), with each Lender being an Issuing Lender with respect to such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the drawable amount of such Letter of Credit. Each Lender agrees to execute and
Several Letters of Credit
Several Letter of Credit
 
deliver Several Letters of Credit on the terms described in this paragraph. Each Several Letter of Credit (i) shall provide that the beneficiary may only draw thereunder if it makes a simultaneous drawing on each Lender for such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such drawing and (ii) shall allow for replacements, substitutions and reallocations of the issuers of such Several Letters of Credit and the reallocation of drawable interests thereunder in order to allow and give effect to assignments of Commitments permitted by Section 8.4. Each Several Letter of Credit shall be issued pursuant to procedures established by the Administrative Agent and Issuing Agent in a manner consistent with this Section 2.22.
(ii) Each Several Letter of Credit will be issued by the Issuing Agent on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Agent shall provide a copy of each Several Letter of Credit to each Lender promptly following issuance or amendment thereof. The obligations of each Lender under and in respect of each Several Letter of Credit are several, and the failure by any Lender to perform its obligations hereunder or under any Several Letter of Credit shall not affect the obligations of the Borrowers toward any other party hereto nor shall any other such party be liable for the failure by such Lender to perform its obligations hereunder or under any Several Letter of Credit.
(iii) Subject to and on the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Issuing Agent is hereby authorized by the Borrowers and the Lenders to arrange for the issuance of any Several Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.22(i) and the amendment of any Several Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.18, Section 2.22(b) and/or Section 8.4 by:
(A) completing the date of issuance and the expiration date of such Several Letter of Credit (it being understood that no Several Letter of Credit shall have an expiration date that is later than five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date unless each Lender agrees to such later date);
(B) in the case of an amendment increasing or reducing the amount thereof, amending such Several Letter of Credit in such manner as the Issuing Agent and the respective beneficiary may agree;
(C) (1) completing such Several Letter of Credit with the participation of each Lender as allocated pursuant to the terms hereof, and (2) executing such Several Letter of Credit on behalf of each Lender and, following such execution, delivering such Several Letter of Credit to the beneficiary of such Several Letter of Credit; and
(D) notifying the Company of the presentation of any drafts for payment under such Several Letter of Credit.
(iv) Each Several Letter of Credit shall be executed and delivered by the Issuing Agent in the name and on behalf of, and as attorney-in-fact for, each Lender party to such Several Letter of Credit, and the Issuing Agent shall act under each Several Letter of Credit, and each Several Letter of Credit shall expressly provide that the Issuing Agent shall act, as the agent of each Lender to (a) receive drafts, other demands for payment and other documents presented by the beneficiary under such Several Letter of Credit, (b) determine whether such drafts, demands and documents are in compliance with the terms
 
and conditions of such Several Letter of Credit and (c) notify such Lender and the Borrowers that a valid drawing has been made and the date that the related LC Disbursement is to be made; that the Issuing Agent shall have no obligation or liability for any LC Disbursement under such Several Letter of Credit, and each Several Letter of Credit shall expressly so provide. Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints and designates the Issuing Agent its attorney-in-fact, acting through any duly authorized officer of the Issuing Agent, to execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of such Lender each Several Letter of Credit to be issued by such Lender hereunder. Promptly upon the request of the Issuing Agent, each Lender will furnish to the Issuing Agent such powers of attorney or other evidence as any beneficiary of any Several Letter of Credit may reasonably request in order to demonstrate that the Issuing Agent has the power to act as attorney-in-fact for such Lender to execute and deliver such Several Letter of Credit.
provided
(v) The provisions set forth above in Section 2.22(a)-(h), including, but not limited to, the Company's obligations in Section 2.22(b), (c), (e) and (f) shall apply, , to Several Letters of Credit to the extent applicable and the protections and standards of care set forth in Section 2.22(a)-(h) with respect to Issuing Lenders shall apply to the Issuing Agent as applicable.
mutatis
mutandis
Section 2.23 .
Defaulting Lenders
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
(a) Facility Fees shall cease to accrue on the unfunded portion of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.11(a);
(b) the Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether all Lenders or the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to Section 8.7); that any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender which affects such Defaulting Lender differently than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender; that the Commitment of a Defaulting Lender may not be increased and the Availability Period as it applies to a Defaulting Lender may not be extended, in each case without the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
(c) if any Swingline Exposure or LC Exposure exists at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of such Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages but only to the extent (x) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitments and (y) the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.2 are satisfied at such time; and
 
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrowers shall within one Business Day following notice by the Administrative Agent (x) first, prepay such Swingline Exposure and (y) second, cash collateralize such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article VI for so long as such LC Exposure is outstanding;
(iii) if the Borrowers cash collateralize any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure pursuant to Section 2.20(c), the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.11(c) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is cash collateralized;
(iv) if the LC Exposure of the non-Defaulting Lenders is reallocated pursuant to Section 2.20(c), then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.11(a) and Section 2.11(c) shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Applicable Percentages; or
(v) if any Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is neither cash collateralized nor reallocated pursuant to Section 2.20(c), then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of the Issuing Lender or any Lender hereunder, all Facility Fees that otherwise would have been payable to such Defaulting Lender (solely with respect to the portion of such Defaulting Lender's Commitment that was utilized by such LC Exposure) and letter of credit fees payable under Section 2.11(c) with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure shall be payable to the Issuing Bank until such LC Exposure is cash collateralized and/or reallocated;
(d) so long as any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, the Swingline Lender shall not be required to fund any Swingline Loan and the Issuing Bank shall not be required to issue, amend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.20(c), and participating interests in any such newly issued or increased Letter of Credit or newly made Swingline Loan shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with Section 2.20(c)(i) (and Defaulting Lenders shall not participate therein); and
(e) any amount payable to such Defaulting Lender hereunder (whether on account of principal, interest, fees or otherwise, including any amount that would otherwise be payable to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 2.17(c) but excluding Section 2.18) shall, in lieu of being distributed to such Defaulting Lender, be retained by the Administrative Agent in a segregated account and, subject to any applicable requirements of law, be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent (i) first, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder, (ii) second, pro rata, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Issuing Lender
 
or Swingline Lender hereunder, (iii) third, if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by an Issuing Lender or Swingline Lender, held in such account as cash collateral for future funding obligations of the Defaulting Lender in respect of any existing or future participating interest in any Swingline Loan or Letter of Credit, (iv) fourth, to the funding of any Loan in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, (v) fifth, if so determined by the Administrative Agent, held in such account as cash collateral for future funding obligations of the Defaulting Lender in respect of any Loans under this Agreement, (vi) sixth, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders or an Issuing Lender or Swingline Lender as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender or such Issuing Lender or Swingline Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement, (vii) seventh, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrowers as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement, and (viii) eighth, to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Company, the Issuing Lender and the Swingline Lender each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Swingline Exposure and LC Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders (other than Swingline Loans) as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
Holdings and the Company represent and warrant to each of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that:
Section 3.1 . Each Credit Party (a) is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority to own its property and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted and as proposed to be conducted and (c) is qualified to do business in every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure so to qualify would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. Each Credit Party has the power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement (or, in the case of the Borrowing Subsidiaries, the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreements), to perform its obligations under and, in the case of the Borrowers, to borrow hereunder.
Organization; Powers
Section 3.2 . The Transactions (a) are within each Credit Party's powers and have been, or will be, in the case of the IPO, duly authorized by all requisite action, as applicable, and (b) will not (i) violate (A) any provision of any law, statute, rule or regulation (including the Margin Regulations), (B) any provision of the certificate of incorporation or other constitutive documents or by-laws of Holdings or any Subsidiary, (C) any order of any
Authorization
 
Governmental Authority or (D) any provision of any indenture, agreement or other instrument to which the Company or any Subsidiary is a party or by which it or any of its property is or may be bound, (ii) be in conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (alone or with notice or lapse of time or both) a default under any such indenture, agreement or other instrument or (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any lien upon any property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary other than, in the case of clauses (i)(A), (i)(C), (i)(D), (ii) and (iii), any such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults or liens that, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.3 . Each Loan Document constitutes or, when executed and delivered, will constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Credit Party party thereto, enforceable in accordance with its terms (subject, as to enforceability, to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity)).
Enforceability
Section 3.4 . No action, consent or approval of, registration or filing with or other action by any Governmental Authority is required, or will be required in the case of the IPO, in connection with the Transactions.
Governmental Approvals
Section 3.5 . xvii) Holdings has heretofore furnished to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders copies of (i) its unaudited pro forma Condensed Statements of Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the nine months ended September 30, 2008, respectively, which were included in the Form S-1 Filing and (ii) its unaudited pro forma Condensed Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2008, which was included in the Form S-1 Filing. Such financial statements have been prepared giving effect to (A) the consummation of the IPO, (B) the separation of Holdings and the Mead Johnson Division from BMS, (C) the Loans to be made and Letters of Credit to be issued and the BMS Intercompany Debt to be issued on the Effective Date and the use of proceeds hereof and (D) the payment of fees and expenses in connection with the foregoing. Such pro forma financial statements have been prepared based on the best information available to Holdings as of the date of delivery thereof, and present fairly on pro forma basis the estimated financial position of Holdings and its consolidated Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2008, assuming that the events specified in the preceding sentence had actually occurred at such date, and the estimated results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the nine-months ended September 30, 2008, respectively, assuming that the events specified in the preceding sentence had actively occurred on the first day of such respective periods.
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Change
(a) Holdings has heretofore furnished to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders copies of (i) the audited financial statements of Mead Johnson Nutritionals, a division of BMS (the ""), for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007, respectively, which were included in the Form S-1 Filing and (ii) the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Mead Johnson Division for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, which were included in the Form S-1 Filing. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition and the results of operations of the Mead Johnson Division, as of, and for accounting periods ending on, such dates in accordance with GAAP (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes).
Mead Johnson Division
 
(b) There has been no material adverse effect on the business, operations, properties or financial condition of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from those reflected in the pro forma financial statements contained in the Form S-1 Filing as filed on the date hereof.
Section 3.6 . xviii) There are no actions, proceedings or investigations filed or (to the knowledge of Holdings or the Company) threatened against Holdings or any Subsidiary in any court or before any Governmental Authority or arbitration board or tribunal which question the validity or legality of this Agreement, the Transactions or any action taken or to be taken pursuant to this Agreement and no order or judgment has been issued or entered restraining or enjoining Holdings or the Company from the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement nor is there any other action, proceeding or investigation filed or (to the knowledge of Holdings or the Company) threatened against Holdings or any Subsidiary in any court or before any Governmental Authority or arbitration board or tribunal which would be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation; Compliance with Laws
(a) Neither Holdings nor any Subsidiary is in violation of any law, rule or regulation, or in default with respect to any judgment, writ, injunction or decree of any Governmental Authority, where such violation or default would be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.7 . No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, for any purpose which entails a violation of, or which is inconsistent with, the provisions of the Margin Regulations.
Federal Reserve Regulations
Section 3.8 . All proceeds of the Loans shall be used for the purposes referred to in the recitals to this Agreement.
Use of Proceeds
Section 3.9 . Holdings and the Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed all Federal income tax and other material federal state, local and foreign Tax returns which are required to be filed by them, and have paid or caused to be paid all Taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns or on any assessments received by any of them, other than any Taxes or assessments the validity of which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, and with respect to which appropriate accounting reserves have, to the extent required by GAAP, been set aside.
Taxes
Section 3.10 . The present aggregate value of accumulated benefit obligations of all Plans and all foreign employee pension benefit plans (based on those assumptions used for disclosure of such obligations in corporate financial statements in accordance with GAAP) did not, as of the most recent statements available, exceed the aggregate value of the assets for all such plans. Except as would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect: (a) no ERISA Termination Event has occurred or (b) each Plan has been established and administered in accordance with its terms and in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Employee Benefit Plans
 
Section 3.11 . Other than exceptions to any of the following that would not in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect: (i) Holdings and the Subsidiaries comply and have complied with all applicable Environmental and Safety Laws; (ii) there are and have been no Hazardous Substances at any property owned, leased or operated by Holdings or any Subsidiary now or in the past, or at any other location, that could reasonably be expected to result in liability of Holdings or any Subsidiary under any Environmental and Safety Law or result in costs to any of them arising out of any Environmental and Safety Law; (iii) there are no past, present, or, to the knowledge of Holdings and the Subsidiaries, anticipated future events, conditions, circumstances, practices, plans, or legal requirements that could reasonably be expected to prevent Holdings or any of the Subsidiaries from, or increase the costs to the Company or any of the Subsidiaries of, complying with applicable Environmental and Safety Laws or obtaining or renewing all material permits, approvals, authorizations, licenses or permissions required of any of them pursuant to any such law; and (iv) neither Holdings nor any of the Subsidiaries has retained or assumed, by contract or operation of law, any liability, fixed or contingent, under any Environmental and Safety Law.
Environmental and Safety Matters
Section 3.12 . xix) Each of Holdings and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property that are material to the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes.
Properties
(a) Each of Holdings and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property that are material to the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, and the use thereof by Holdings and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.13 . Neither Holdings nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment and Holding Company Status
Section 3.14 . The IPO has been consummated or shall be consummated concurrently with the initial Credit Event.
IPO
Section 3.15 . No statement or information contained in this Agreement, any other Loan Document, the Confidential Information Memorandum or any other document, certificate or statement furnished by or on behalf of any Credit Party in writing to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, or any of them, for use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, contained as of the date such statement, information, document or certificate was so furnished, any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading. The projections and financial information contained
Accuracy of Information, etc
pro
forma
 
in the materials referenced above are based upon good faith estimates and assumptions believed by management of Holdings to be reasonable at the time made, it being recognized by the Lenders that such financial information as it relates to future events is not to be viewed as fact and that actual results during the period or periods covered by such financial information may differ from the projected results set forth therein by a material amount. There is no fact known to any Credit Party that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect that has not been expressly disclosed herein, in the other Loan Documents, in the Confidential Information Memorandum or in any other documents, certificates and statements furnished in writing to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders for use in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents.
Section 3.16 . Each Credit Party is, and after giving effect to the IPO and the incurrence of all Debt and obligations being incurred in connection herewith and therewith will continue to be, Solvent.
Solvency
Section 4.1 . The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of any Issuing Lender to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 8.7):
Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy or email transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion letter (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of Mayer Brown LLP, to the effect set forth in Exhibit C. The Company hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion letter.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of Holdings and the Company, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to Holdings and the Company, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of Holdings, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.2.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced not less than two Business Days before the Effective Date, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Company hereunder.
 
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence reasonably satisfactory to it that the IPO shall have been consummated.
(g) The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received copies of the Separation Agreements.
(h) The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received copies of documents creating or evidencing the BMS Intercompany Debt, the terms of which shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Joint Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners listed on the cover page of this Agreement.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
Section 4.2 . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing (other than a Borrowing made solely to refinance outstanding Borrowings that does not increase the aggregate principal amount of the Loans of any Lender outstanding) and of the Issuing Lender to issue, amend, renew or extend a Letter of Credit (each such event, a "") on any date is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
Credit Event
(a) The representations and warranties of Holdings and the Company set forth in this Agreement (other than those set forth in Sections 3.5(c) and 3.6(a) on any date other than the Effective Date) shall be true and correct in all material respects (provided that such representations and warranties qualified as to materiality shall be true and correct) on and as of the date of such Borrowing with the same effect as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case those representations and warranties will be true and correct as of such earlier date.
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(c) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing (and the use of the proceeds thereof) or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, the Company shall be in compliance with the Consolidated Leverage Ratio set forth in Section 5.13(a). Such Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall be calculated using Consolidated EBITDA for the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ended prior to such date for which financial statements are available.
pro
forma
Each Borrowing and the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Company on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section.
Section 4.3 . The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of the first Borrowing by each Borrowing Subsidiary is subject to the satisfaction of the condition that the Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement properly executed by such Borrowing Subsidiary and the Company.
Initial Borrowing by Each Borrowing Subsidiary
 
. Holdings covenants and agrees with each Lender and the Administrative Agent that so long as this Agreement shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on any Loan, any fees or any other amounts payable hereunder shall be unpaid or any Letter of Credit remains outstanding, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, it will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to:
Affirmative Covenants
Section 5.1 . Do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and its rights and franchises that are material to the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries as a whole, except as expressly permitted under Section 5.9 and except, in the case of any Subsidiary, where the failure to do so would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence
Section 5.2 . Comply in all respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority (including Environmental and Safety Laws and ERISA), whether now in effect or hereafter enacted except instances that could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and at all times maintain and preserve all property material to the conduct of the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries as a whole and keep such property in good repair, working order and condition and from time to time make, or cause to be made, all needful and proper repairs, renewals, additions, improvements and replacements thereto necessary in order that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times, except where the failure to do so would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Business and Properties
Section 5.3 . Furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Financial Statements, Reports, Etc
(a) within 95 days after the end of each fiscal year, its annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC, including its consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated earnings statement showing its consolidated financial condition as of the close of such fiscal year and the consolidated results of its operations during such year, all audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP or other independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing selected by Holdings and accompanied by an opinion of such accountants (without a "going concern" qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception with respect to the scope of such opinion) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements fairly present Holdings' financial condition and results of operations on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP;
(b) within 50 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, its quarterly report on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC, including its unaudited consolidated balance sheet and related consolidated earnings statement, showing its consolidated financial condition as of the close of such fiscal quarter and the consolidated results of its
 
operations during such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year (and each delivery of such statements shall be deemed a representation that such statements fairly present Holdings's financial condition and results of operations on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes);
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under paragraph (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer (i) certifying that no Event of Default or Default has occurred or, if such an Event of Default or Default has occurred, specifying the nature and extent thereof and any corrective action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto and (ii) calculating the Consolidated Leverage Ratio in reasonable detail as of the last day of the applicable fiscal period and calculating the Consolidated Interest Expense Ratio in reasonable detail for the period of four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of such fiscal period; and
(d) promptly, from time to time, such other information as any Lender shall reasonably request through the Administrative Agent.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 5.3 shall be deemed to have been effectively delivered (including for purposes of Section 8.1(b)) on the date on which the Company provides notice to the Administrative Agent (which notice the Administrative Agent shall promptly provide to the Lenders) that such information has been posted on the SEC website on the Internet at sec.gov/edaux/searches.htm (or any successor website), on Holdings's IntraLinks site at intralinks.com or at another relevant website identified in such notice and accessible by the Lenders without charge. Any such notice by the Company or the Administrative Agent may be by e-mail to the addresses provided in or pursuant to Sections 8.1(b) and 8.1(c).
Section 5.4 . Keep its insurable properties adequately insured at all times by financially sound and reputable insurers (which may include captive insurers), and maintain such other insurance or self insurance, to such extent and against such risks, including fire and other risks insured against by extended coverage, as is customary with companies similarly situated and in the same or similar businesses.
Insurance
Section 5.5 . Pay and discharge promptly when due all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges imposed upon it or upon its income or profits or in respect of its property, in each case before the same shall become delinquent or in default and before penalties accrue thereon, unless and to the extent that the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves with respect thereto shall, to the extent required by GAAP, have been set aside.
Obligations and Taxes
Section 5.6 . Give the Administrative Agent written notice of the following within five Business Days after any executive officer of Holdings or the Company obtains knowledge thereof:
Litigation and Other Notices
(a) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding which the Company reasonably expects to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
(b) any Event of Default or Default, specifying the nature and extent thereof and the action (if any) which is proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
Section 5.7 . Keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all material dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities.
Books and Records
Section 5.8 . Cause each Subsidiary which is a Borrower to be a Wholly Owned Subsidiary.
Ownership of Borrowers
. Holdings covenants and agrees with each Lender and the Administrative Agent that so long as this Agreement shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on any Loan, any fees or any other amounts payable hereunder shall be unpaid or any Letter of Credit remains outstanding, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, it will not, and will not permit any of the Subsidiaries to:
Negative Covenants
Section 5.9 . In the case of Holdings and the Company (a) consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or liquidate, wind up or dissolve (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution) or (b) sell, or otherwise transfer (in one transaction or a series of transactions), or permit the Company to sell, or otherwise transfer (in one transaction or a series of transactions), all or substantially all of the assets of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case to any other Person; that (1) Holdings may merge or consolidate with another Person if (A) Holdings is the corporation surviving such merger and (B) immediately after giving effect to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (2) the Company may merge or consolidate with another Person if (A) the Company is the corporation surviving such merger and (B) immediately after giving effect to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; that Holdings and the Company may not merge or otherwise combine with each other unless Holdings is the corporation surviving such merger.
Consolidations, Mergers, and Sales of Assets
provided
provided
further
Section 5.10 . Create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any property, except that the foregoing shall not prevent Holdings or any Subsidiary from creating, assuming or suffering to exist any of the following Liens:
Liens
(a) Liens existing on the date hereof and set forth on Schedule 5.10 hereto;
(b) any Lien existing on property owned or leased by any Person at the time it becomes a Subsidiary, provided that such Lien was not created in anticipation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary;
(c) any Lien existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof by Holdings or any Subsidiary, provided that such Lien was not created in anticipation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary;
(d) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the acquisition of any fixed assets (but not assets constituting a line of business) for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof;
 
(e) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the completion of the construction, alteration, repair or improvement of any property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost thereof;
(f) any Liens securing Debt of a Subsidiary owing to Holdings or to another Subsidiary;
(g) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, provided that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of Holdings or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP;
(h) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business that are not more than 60 days delinquent in accordance with their terms or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
(i) pledges or deposits in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation and deposits securing liability to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements;
(j) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(k) any interest or title of a lessor under any lease entered into by Holdings or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of its business and covering only the assets so leased;
(l) Liens arising from precautionary Uniform Commercial Code financing statement filings with respect to operating leases or consignment arrangements entered into by the Company or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business;
(m) customary Liens in favor of a banking institution arising by operation of law encumbering deposits (including the right of set-off) held by such banking institutions incurred in the ordinary course of business and that are within the general parameters customary in the banking industry;
(n) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in clauses (a) through (m) above, so long as the principal amount of the Debt secured thereby does not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement (except that, where an additional principal amount of Debt is incurred to provide funds for the completion of a specific project, the additional principal amount, and any related financing costs, may be secured by the Lien as well) and such Lien is limited to the same property subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (and improvements on such property);
(o) Liens securing any obligations of the Credit Parties under the Loan Documents or guarantees in respect thereof;
 
(p) Liens securing the BMS Intercompany Debt, Refinancing Debt and any Guarantee of the foregoing as long as the obligations of the Credit Parties under the Loan Documents and any Guarantee thereof are secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Liens on terms reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and for so long as the Loan Documents and such Guarantee shall be so secured; and
(q) any Lien not permitted by clauses (a) through (p) above securing Debt which, together with the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all other Debt of Holdings and its Subsidiaries which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions and the aggregate Value of Sale and Leaseback Transactions, does not at any time exceed $125,000,000.
Section 5.11 . Enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, or permit any Subsidiary to do so, unless Holdings or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Debt, in a principal amount at least equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, which is secured by Liens on the property to be leased without violating Section 5.10(q) or 5.12.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
Section 5.12 . Permit Subsidiaries of Holdings to create, issue, incur, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist any Debt (other than Permitted Subsidiary Debt) in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000 outstanding at any time.
Indebtedness
Section 5.13 . xx) . Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.00 on the last day of each fiscal quarter of the Company.
Financial Covenants
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
(a) . Permit the Consolidated Interest Expense Ratio to be less than 3.00 to 1.00 on the last day of each fiscal quarter for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters.
Consolidated Interest Expense
Section 5.14 . Enter into any material transaction, including any purchase, sale, lease or exchange of property, the rendering of any service or the payment of any management, advisory or similar fees, with any Affiliate, except any such transaction which is (a) not otherwise prohibited under this Agreement and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to Holdings or the relevant Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person that is not an Affiliate, (b) entered into on or prior to the date hereof or contemplated by any agreement identified on Schedule 5.14 hereof, (c) between or among Holdings and/or one or more Subsidiaries exclusively, (d) any Restricted Payment or (e) any arrangements with officers, directors, representatives or other employees of Holdings or any Subsidiary relating specifically to employment as such.
Transactions with Affiliates
Section 5.15 . xxi) Enter into or suffer to exist or become effective any agreement that prohibits or limits the ability of Holdings or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, to secure its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party other than (i) this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) restrictions in the BMS Intercompany Debt, Refinancing Debt and any Guarantee of the foregoing as long as in each case such restrictions are no more restrictive than those in effect thereunder on the Effective
Restrictive Agreements
 
Date and (iii) any agreements governing any purchase money Liens or Capital Lease Obligations otherwise permitted hereby (in which case, any prohibition or limitation shall only be effective against the assets financed thereby).
(a) Enter into or suffer to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Subsidiary of Holdings to (i) pay dividends or make distributions in respect of any Capital Stock of such Subsidiary held by, or pay any Debt owed to, the Company or any other Subsidiary of Holdings, (ii) make loans or advances to, or other investments in, Holdings or any other Subsidiary of Holdings or (iii) transfer any of its assets to Holdings or any other Subsidiary of Holdings, except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (A) any restrictions existing under the Loan Documents, (B) any restrictions in the BMS Intercompany Debt, Refinancing Debt and any Guarantee of the foregoing as long as such restrictions are no more restrictive than those in effect thereunder on the Effective Date, (C) applicable law, (D) customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other agreements entered in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices, or (E) customary restrictions in security agreements, mortgages or capital leases securing Debt to the extent such restrictions only restrict the transfer of the property subject to such security agreement, mortgage or capital lease and (F) any restrictions with respect to a Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement that has been entered into in connection with the Disposition of all or substantially all of the Capital Stock or assets of such Subsidiary.
Section 5.16 . xxii) Amend, supplement, waive or otherwise modify the BMS Intercompany Debt or the Refinancing Debt in a way that is materially adverse to the Lenders.
Amendment of BMS Intercompany Debt, Separation Agreements and Refinancing Debt
(a) Amend or otherwise modify, or fail to enforce in a timely way, its rights under the Separation Agreements, if such amendment, modification or failure would or would be reasonably likely to, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.17 . Repay or refinance any BMS Intercompany Debt or Refinancing Debt with any other Debt (or the proceeds thereof) (any such Debt which directly or indirectly refinances the BMS Intercompany Debt and complies with the following clauses (a)-(d) being "") unless such Refinancing Debt (a) is unsecured (except as permitted by Section 5.10(p)), (b) is issued only by the Company (or, as permitted below, by Holdings) and, if guaranteed, is guaranteed only by Persons which are Guarantors (it being understood that each Subsidiary that guarantees BMS Intercompany Debt or Refinancing Debt shall become a Subsidiary Guarantor), (c) does not require scheduled principal payments in amounts or at times greater than or earlier than scheduled principal payments of the BMS Intercompany Debt as scheduled on the Effective Date and (d) contains covenants and events of default taken as a whole that are not more disadvantageous to the Lenders than the BMS Intercompany Debt as in effect on the Effective Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Refinancing Debt may be issued by Holdings and guaranteed by the Company or one or more Subsidiaries, subject to the preceding provisions of this Section 5.17. If Holdings becomes the sole issuer of Refinancing Debt then, at the request of Holdings, the Lenders agree that this Agreement may be amended as agreed by Holdings and the Administrative Agent (without the further consent of the Lenders) in order to cause Holdings to become a Borrower (having all the rights and obligations then held and owed by the Company in
Refinancing of BMS Intercompany Debt; Maintenance of Structural Parity
Refinancing Debt
 
its capacity as a Borrower) with its Borrower Obligations being guaranteed by the Company and each then existing Subsidiary Guarantor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any BMS Intercompany Debt or Refinancing Debt may be repaid with the proceeds of commercial paper issued by Holdings.
Section . Declare or pay any dividend (other than dividends payable solely in common stock of the Person making such dividend) on, or make any payment on account of, or set apart assets for a sinking or other analogous fund for, the purchase, redemption, defeasance, retirement or other acquisition of, any Capital Stock of Holdings, the Company or any Subsidiary, whether now or hereafter outstanding, or make any other distribution in respect thereof, either directly or indirectly, whether in cash or property or in obligations of Holdings, the Company or any Subsidiary, (collectively "") if after giving effect thereto there shall be a Default, except that any Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to Holdings or any Wholly Owned Subsidiary; that if there shall not be a Default at the time such dividend is declared, such dividend may be paid within 60 days of declaration notwithstanding that there may be a Default on the date of payment.
5.18 Restricted Payments
Restricted Payments
provided
In case of the happening of any of the following events (each an ""):
Event of Default
(a) any representation or warranty made or deemed made in or in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Borrowings hereunder or the issuance or increase in the drawable amount of any Letter of Credit hereunder or under any Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement shall prove to have been false or misleading in any material respect when so made, deemed made or furnished;
(b) default shall be made in the payment of any principal of any Loan or LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise;
(c) default shall be made in the payment of any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in paragraph (b) above) due hereunder, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days;
(d) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.6, 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, 5.11, 5.12, 5.13, 5.14, 5.15, 5.16, 5.17 or 5.18;
(e) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained herein (other than those specified in (b), (c) or (d) above) and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent or any Lender to Holdings or the Company;
 
(f) Holdings or any Subsidiary shall (i) fail to pay any principal or interest, regardless of amount, due in respect of one or more items of Debt in an aggregate principal amount greater than or equal to $75,000,000, when and as the same shall become due and payable (giving effect to any applicable grace period), or (ii) fail to observe or perform any other term, covenant, condition or agreement contained in any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing any such Debt if the effect of any failure referred to in this clause (ii) is to cause, or to permit the holder or beneficiary of such Debt (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or beneficiary) to cause, such Debt to become due prior to its stated maturity or, in the case of any such Debt constituting a Guarantee Obligation, to become payable;
(g) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (i) relief in respect of Holdings or any Subsidiary, or of a substantial part of the property or assets of Holdings or any Subsidiary, under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Holdings or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of the property or assets of Holdings or any Subsidiary or (iii) the winding up or liquidation of Holdings or any Subsidiary; and such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(h) Holdings or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or the filing of any petition described in (g) above, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Holdings or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of the property or assets of Holdings or any Subsidiary, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, (vi) become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due or (vii) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(i) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount equal to or greater than $75,000,000 (exclusive of any amount thereof covered by insurance) shall be rendered against Holdings, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed (for this purpose, a judgment shall be effectively stayed during a period when it is not yet due and payable), or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to levy upon assets or properties of Holdings or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(j) (i) a Plan of Holdings or any Subsidiary shall fail to maintain the minimum funding standard required by Section 412 of the Code for any plan year or a waiver of such standard is sought or granted under Section 412(d), or (ii) an ERISA Termination Event shall have occurred with respect to Holdings or any Subsidiary or an ERISA Affiliate has incurred or is reasonably likely to incur a liability to or on account of a Plan under Section 4062,
 
4063, 4064, 4201 or 4204 of ERISA, or (iii) Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate shall engage in any prohibited transaction described in Sections 406 of ERISA or 4975 of the Code for which a statutory or class exemption is not available or a private exemption has not been previously obtained from the United States Department of Labor, or (iv) Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to pay any required installment or any other payment required to be paid by such entity under Section 412 of the Code on or before the due date for such installment or other payment, or (v) Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to make any contribution or payment to any Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) which Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate is required to make under any agreement relating to such Multiemployer Plan or any law pertaining thereto, and there shall result from any such event or events either a liability or a material risk of incurring a liability to the PBGC or a Plan which will have a Material Adverse Effect;
(k) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(l) the guarantee in Section 8.16 shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by Holdings or the Company not to be, a valid and binding obligation on the part of Holdings or, at any time the Company is a Guarantor thereunder, of the Company; or at any time while a Subsidiary Guarantee is in effect, the Subsidiary Guarantee shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by Holdings or the Company or any other Credit Party not to be, a valid and binding obligation on the part of a Subsidiary Guarantor;
, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to any Borrower described in paragraph (g) or (h) above), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, shall, by notice to the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary (which notice to a Borrowing Subsidiary may be given to the Company), take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate forthwith the Commitments and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be forthwith due and payable in whole or in part, whereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary accrued hereunder (including all amounts of LC Exposure, whether or not the beneficiary of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required therein), shall become forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding; and, in any event with respect to any Borrower described in paragraph (g) or (h) above, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company and the Borrowing Subsidiaries accrued hereunder (including all amounts of LC Exposure, whether or not the beneficiary of the then outstanding Letters of Credit shall have presented the documents required therein) shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding. With respect to all Letters of Credit with respect to which presentment for honor shall not have occurred at the time of an acceleration pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrowers shall at such time deposit in a cash collateral account opened by the Administrative Agent an amount equal to the aggregate then undrawn and unexpired amount of such Letters of Credit. Amounts held in such cash collateral account shall
then
 
be applied by the Administrative Agent to the payment of drafts drawn under such Letters of Credit, and the unused portion thereof after all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, if any, shall be applied to repay other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the other Loan Documents. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrowers' risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. After all such Letters of Credit shall have expired or been fully drawn upon, all reimbursement obligations shall have been satisfied and all other obligations of the Borrowers hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall have been paid in full, the balance, if any, in such cash collateral account shall be returned to the Company (or such other Person as may be lawfully entitled thereto).
In order to expedite the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is hereby appointed to act as the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders. Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on behalf of such Lender or holder and to exercise such powers as are specifically delegated to the Administrative Agents by the terms and provisions hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The Administrative Agent is hereby expressly authorized by the Lenders, without hereby limiting any implied authority, (a) to receive on behalf of the Lenders all payments of principal of and interest on the Loans, payments in respect of the Letters of Credit and all other amounts due to the Lenders hereunder, and promptly to distribute to each Lender its proper share of each payment so received; (b) to give notice on behalf of each of the Lenders to Holdings, the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary of any Event of Default of which the Administrative Agent has actual knowledge acquired in connection with its agency hereunder; and (c) to distribute to each Lender copies of all notices, financial statements and other materials delivered by any Credit Party pursuant to this Agreement as received by the Administrative Agent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative Agent shall have no duties under the Loan Documents in its capacity as Administrative Agent and none of the Syndication Agent, Joint Lead Arrangers or Bookrunners, Co-Documentation Agents or Senior Managing Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as an agent or a Lender.
Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its respective directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable as such for any action taken or omitted by any of them except for its or his or her own gross negligence or willful misconduct, or be responsible for any statement, warranty or representation herein or the contents of any document delivered in connection herewith, or be required to ascertain or to make any inquiry concerning the performance or observance by Holdings, the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary of any of the terms, conditions, covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible to the Lenders for the due execution, genuineness, validity,
 
enforceability or effectiveness of this Agreement or other instruments or agreements. The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the Lender which makes any Loan or issues or participates in any Letter of Credit as the holder of the indebtedness resulting therefrom for all purposes hereof until it shall have received notice from such Lender, given as provided herein, of the transfer thereof. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or refraining from acting, in accordance with written instructions signed by the Required Lenders and, except as otherwise specifically provided herein, such instructions and any action or inaction pursuant thereto shall be binding on all the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall, in the absence of knowledge to the contrary, be entitled to rely on any instrument or document believed by it in good faith to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person or Persons. Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its respective directors, officers, employees or agents shall have any responsibility to Holdings, the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary on account of the failure of or delay in performance or breach by any Lender of any of its obligations hereunder or to any Lender on account of the failure of or delay in performance or breach by any other Lender or Holdings, the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary of any of their respective obligations hereunder or in connection herewith. The Administrative Agent may execute any and all duties hereunder by or through its Affiliates, agents or employees and shall be entitled to rely upon the advice of legal counsel selected by it with respect to all matters arising hereunder and shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered in good faith by them in accordance with the advice of such counsel.
The Lenders hereby acknowledge that the Administrative Agent shall be under no duty to take any discretionary action permitted to be taken by it pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement unless it shall be requested in writing to do so by the Required Lenders.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided below, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Company. Upon any such resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent acceptable to the Company. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000 or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor bank, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 8.5 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
With respect to the Loans made by, or Letters of Credit issued or participated in by, it hereunder, the Administrative Agent in its individual capacity and not as Administrative Agent shall have the same rights and powers as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with Holdings or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent.
 
Each Lender agrees (i) to reimburse the Administrative Agent, on demand, in the amount of its Applicable Percentage of any expenses incurred for the benefit of the Lenders by the Administrative Agent, including counsel fees and compensation of agents and employees paid for services rendered on behalf of the Lenders, which shall not have been reimbursed by the Company and (ii) to indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and any of its directors, officers, employees or agents, on demand, in the amount of such pro rata share, from and against any and all liabilities, taxes, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against either of them in its capacity as an Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by it under this Agreement to the extent the same shall not have been reimbursed by the Company; that no Lender shall be liable to the Administrative Agent for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent or any of its directors, officers, employees or agents.
provided
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Section 8.1 .
Notices
Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed or sent by telecopy, as follows:
(i) if to the Company, to Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, 2400 West Lloyd Expressway, Evansville, Indiana 47721-0001, Attention of Kevin Wilson (Telecopy No. (812) 647-8067) and the General Counsel/Bill P'Pool (Telecopy No. (812) 647-8228);
(ii) if to Holdings, to Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, 2400 West Lloyd Expressway, Evansville, Indiana 47721-0001, Attention of Kevin Wilson (Telecopy No. (812) 647-8067) and the General Counsel/Bill P'Pool (Telecopy No. (812) 647-8228);
 
(iii) if to the Administrative Agent, to Attention of Mandy Brewer (Telecopy No. (713) 750-2956); that notices with respect to fundings and payments in Alternative Currencies shall also be delivered to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, Attention of the Manager/Ching Loh (Telecopy No. +44 207 777 2360);
provided
(iv) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in Schedule 2.1 or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender became a party hereto; and
(v) if to any Borrowing Subsidiary, to it at the address (or telecopy number) set forth above for the Company. Each Borrowing Subsidiary hereby irrevocably appoints each of Holding and the Company as its agent for the purpose of giving on its behalf any notice and taking any other action provided for in this Agreement and hereby agrees that it shall be bound by any such notice or action given or taken by Holdings or the Company hereunder irrespective of whether or not any such notice shall have in fact been authorized by such Borrowing Subsidiary and irrespective of whether or not the agency provided for herein shall have theretofore been terminated.
All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by telecopy to such party as provided in this Section or in accordance with the latest unrevoked direction from such party given in accordance with this Section.
(b) So long as JPMCB or any of its Affiliates is the Administrative Agent, materials required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.3 shall be delivered to JPMCB in an electronic medium in a format reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agents by e-mail at Covenant.compliance@jpmchase.com; , , that if a Credit Party also delivers such materials in paper format to the Administrative Agent, such paper materials shall be deemed the materials delivered pursuant to Section 5.3 for all purposes. Holdings and the Company agree that, except as directed otherwise by Holdings or the Company, the Administrative Agent may make such materials (collectively, the "") available to the Lenders by posting such notices on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the ""), subject to the implementation of confidentiality agreements and procedures reasonably acceptable to the Company. Each of Holdings and the Company acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided "as is" and "as available" and (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by Holdings, the Company, the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform. Nothing in this Section 8.1(b) shall limit the obligations of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders under Section 8.18.
provided
however
Communications
Platform
 
(c) Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "") specifying that any Communications or any other written information, documents, instruments and other material relating to Holdings, any of its subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, with Communications, the "") have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement; that if requested by any Lender the Administrative Agent shall deliver a copy of the Materials to such Lender by email or telecopier. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing of such Lender's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender), (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address and (iii) Holdings and the Company shall be responsible only for the Communications and shall not have any liability (unless otherwise agreed in writing by Holdings or the Company) for any other Materials made available to the Lenders and shall not have any liability for any errors or omissions in the Communications other than errors or omissions in the materials delivered to the Administrative Agent by Holdings or the Company.
Notice
Materials
provided
Section 8.2 . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by Holdings and the Company herein and in the certificates or other instruments prepared or delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the Lenders and shall survive the making by the Lenders of the Loans regardless of any investigation made by the Lenders or on their behalf, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or the Commitments have not been terminated.
Survival of Agreement
Section 8.3 . This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by Holdings, the Company and the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received copies hereof (telecopied or otherwise) which, when taken together, bear the signature of each Lender, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, except that none of Holdings, the Company and any Borrowing Subsidiary shall have the right to assign any rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior consent of all the Lenders.
Binding Effect
Section 8.4 . xxiii) Whenever in this Agreement any of the parties is referred to, such reference shall be deemed to include the successors and assigns of such party; and all covenants, promises and agreements by or on behalf of any party that are contained in this Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
(a) Each Lender may (and, within five days after notice by a Borrower to any Lender in accordance with Section 2.18(b)), shall) assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Lender (or the Issuing Agent in the case of a Several Letter of Credit), in each case not to be unreasonably withheld; ,
provided
 
, that, except in the case of an assignment to another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, (i) the Company (so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Company) must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), (ii) the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $10,000,000 unless (x) it shall be the entire amount of such Lender's Commitment or (y) the Company and the Administrative Agent shall otherwise agree and (iii) an assignment by a Lender of any of its Commitments shall include an assignment by such Lender of its proportionate interest in Swingline Loans and LC Exposure. The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500. Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, which effective date shall be at least five Business Days after the execution thereof, (X) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement and (Y) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto (but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 8.5, as well as to any fees accrued for its account hereunder and not yet paid)).
however
(b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the assigning Lender thereunder and the assignee thereunder shall be deemed to confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) such assigning Lender warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) except as set forth in (i) above, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or the financial condition of Holdings, the Company or any other Borrower, or the performance or observance by Holdings, the Company or any other Borrower of any obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.3 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (v) such assignee will independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at one of its offices in the City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and the principal amount of the Loans owing to, and participating interests in Letters of Credit held by, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time and any promissory notes evidencing such Loans (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error and the Company, the other Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. No assignment or transfer of any Loan (or portion thereof) or any Note evidencing such Loan shall be effected unless and until it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this subsection 8.4(d). Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, any assignment or transfer of all or part of a promissory note shall be registered on the Register only upon surrender for registration of assignment or transfer of the promissory note (and each promissory note shall expressly so provide), accompanied by a duly executed Assignment and Acceptance, and thereupon one or more new promissory notes in the same aggregate principal amount shall be issued to the designated Assignee and the old promissory notes shall be returned by the Administrative Agent to the Company marked "cancelled". The Register shall be available for inspection by each party hereto, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee together with an Administrative Questionnaire completed in respect of the assignee (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) above and, if required, the written consent of the Company to such assignment, the Administrative Agent shall (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance and (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register.
(e) Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); , , that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto or thereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) each participating bank or other entity shall be entitled to the benefit of the cost protection provisions contained in Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 to the same extent as if it was the selling Lender (and limited to the amount that could have been claimed by the selling Lender had it continued to hold the interest of such participating bank or other entity, it being further agreed that the selling Lender will not be permitted to make claims against the Company under Section 2.14(b) for costs or reductions resulting from the sale of a participation), except that all claims made pursuant to such Sections shall be made through such selling Lender, and (iv) Holdings, the Company, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such selling Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce the obligations of Holdings or the Company relating to the Loans and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement (other than amendments,
provided
however
 
modifications or waivers decreasing any fees payable hereunder or thereunder or the amount of principal of or the rate at which interest is payable on the Loans, extending the final scheduled maturity of the Loans or any date scheduled for the payment of interest on the Loans, payments in connection with Section 2.20 or extending the Commitments).
(f) Any Lender or participant may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant any information relating to Holdings or any Subsidiary furnished to such Lender; that, prior to any such disclosure, each such assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall be subject to the same confidentiality agreement as are the Lenders.
provided
(g) The Company and the Borrowing Subsidiaries shall not assign or delegate any rights and duties hereunder without the prior written consent of all Lenders.
(h) Any Lender may at any time pledge or otherwise assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge shall release any Lender from its obligations hereunder. In order to facilitate such an assignment to a Federal Reserve Bank, the Company shall, at the request of the assigning Lender, duly execute and deliver to the assigning Lender a promissory note or notes evidencing the Loans made by the assigning Lender hereunder.
provided
Section 8.5 . xxiv) The Company agrees to pay all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with entering into this Agreement or in connection with any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (including the reasonable and documented fees, disbursements and other charges of a single counsel), or incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the enforcement of their rights in connection with this Agreement or in connection with the Loans made hereunder or thereunder, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent and, in the case of enforcement, each Lender.
Expenses; Indemnity
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Senior Managing Agents and each Lender, each of their Affiliates and the directors, officers, employees and agents of the foregoing (each such Person being called an "") against, and to hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of (i) the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) the use of the proceeds of the Loans and the use of the Letters of Credit or (iii) any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether or not any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that (A) such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or any of its Affiliates and (B) such indemnity shall not apply to losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses that result from disputes solely between Lenders.
Indemnitee
provided
 
(b) The provisions of this Section shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of any of the Loans, the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, any Co-Documentation Agent, any Senior Managing Agent or any Lender. All amounts due under this Section shall be payable on written demand therefor.
Section 8.6 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law
Section 8.7 . xxv) No failure or delay of the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any power or right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies which they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) below, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. No notice or demand on Holdings or any Subsidiary in any case shall entitle such party to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.
Waivers; Amendment
(a) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Holdings, the Company and the Required Lenders; , , that no such agreement shall (i) decrease the principal amount of, or extend the maturity of or any scheduled principal payment date or date for the payment of any interest on any Loan or reimbursement obligation with respect to an LC Disbursement, or waive or excuse any such payment or any part thereof, or decrease the rate of interest on any Loan, or amend or modify Section 8.16, without the prior written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (ii) increase the Commitment, or decrease the Facility Fees or fees in respect of Letters of Credit of any Lender (with the exception of fronting fees payable to the Issuing Lender, which shall require the consent of the Issuing Lender) without the prior written consent of such Lender or (iii) amend or modify the provisions of Section 2.17 or Section 8.4(h), the provisions of this Section or the definition of the "Required Lenders", or release any Guarantor from its obligations under Section 8.16 hereof except for the release of a Subsidiary Guarantor in connection with the consummation of a transaction permitted under Section 5.9, or amend the definition of "Alternative Currency" to add any currency, without the prior written consent of each Lender; , , that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of (x) the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, (y) the Swingline Lender without the prior written consent of the Swingline Lender or (z) any Issuing Lender without the prior written consent of such Issuing Lender. Each Lender shall be bound by any waiver, amendment or modification authorized by this Section and any consent by any Lender pursuant to this Section shall bind any assignee of its rights and interests hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended without the consent of the Lenders as described in Section 5.17.
provided
however
provided further
however
 
Section 8.8 . This Agreement constitutes the entire contract among the parties relative to the subject matter hereof. Any previous agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof is superseded by this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer upon any party other than the parties hereto any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Section 8.9 . In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
Severability
Section 8.10 . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which when taken together shall constitute but one contract, and shall become effective as provided in Section 8.3.
Counterparts
Section 8.11 . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
Section 8.12 . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender, or any Affiliate thereof, to or for the credit or obligations of the Company, the applicable Borrowing Subsidiary and any Credit Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Company after such setoff and application made by such Lender, but the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
Section 8.13 . xxvi) Each of Holdings, the Company and each Borrowing Subsidiary hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or Federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any
Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
 
other manner provided by law. Subject to the foregoing and to paragraph (b) below, nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party hereto may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against any other party hereto in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or thereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any New York State or Federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(b) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 8.1. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
(c) Each Credit Party waives, to the maximum extent not prohibited by law, any right it may have to claim or recover in any legal action or proceeding referred to in this Section for any special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages.
Section 8.14 . Each party hereto hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement. Each party hereto (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of any other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and other parties hereto have been induced to enter into this Agreement by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certification in this Section.
Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 8.15 . xxvii) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Conversion of Currencies
(a) The obligations of each Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss. The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section 8.15 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
Applicable Creditor
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
Section 8.16 . In order to induce the Lenders to make Loans to the Company and the Borrowing Subsidiaries and otherwise extend credit to the Borrowers under this Agreement, each Original Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees the Borrower Obligations of all the Borrowers. Each Original Guarantor further agrees that the Borrower Obligations may be extended and renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its agreement hereunder notwithstanding any extension or renewal of any Borrower Obligations.
Guaranty
Each Original Guarantor waives promptness, diligence, presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Borrowers of any Borrower Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its obligations and notice of protest for nonpayment. The obligations of each Original Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional and not be affected by (a) the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against any Borrower under the provisions of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or otherwise; (b) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement, any other Loan Documents or any other agreement; (c) the failure of any Lender to exercise any right or remedy against any Borrower; (d) the invalidity or unenforceability of any Loan Document; (e) any change in the corporate existence or structure of any Borrower; (f) any claims or rights of set off that may be claimed by any Borrower; (g) any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction or any event affecting any term of any Borrower Obligations; or (h) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to or discharge of a Borrower or a guarantor (other than payment).
Each Original Guarantor further agrees that its agreement hereunder constitutes a promise of payment when due and not of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Lender to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of any Lender in favor of any Borrower or any other Person.
The obligations of each Original Guarantor hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, and shall not be subject to any defense or setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever, by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Borrower Obligations or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Agreement or under any other Loan Document or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification in respect of any thereof, by any default, failure or delay, wilful or otherwise, in the performance of the Borrower Obligations, or by any other act or omission which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of the Guarantors (or any of them) or otherwise operate as a discharge of the Guarantors (or any of them) as a matter of law or equity.
Each Original Guarantor further agrees that its obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part
 
thereof, of principal of or interest on any Borrower Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrower or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have at law or in equity against the Guarantors (or any of them) by virtue hereof, upon the failure of any Borrower to pay any Borrower Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, each Guarantor hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Administrative Agent, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash the amount of such unpaid Borrower Obligations. In the event that, by reason of the bankruptcy of any Borrower, (i) acceleration of Loans made to such Borrower is prevented and (ii) the Guarantors shall not have prepaid the outstanding Loans and other amounts due hereunder owed by such Borrower (and cash collateralization of obligations in respect of undrawn Letters of Credit), the Original Guarantors will forthwith purchase such Loans and other amounts at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon and any other amounts due hereunder with respect thereto. Each Original Guarantor further agrees that if payment in respect of any Borrower Obligation shall be due in a currency other than Dollars and/or at a place of payment other than New York and if, by reason of any Change in Law, disruption of currency or foreign exchange markets, war or civil disturbance or similar event, payment of such Borrower Obligations in such currency or such place of payment shall be impossible or, in the judgment of any applicable Lender, not consistent with the protection of its rights or interests, then, at the election of any applicable Lender, the Original Guarantors shall make payment of such Borrower Obligations in Dollars (based upon the applicable Exchange Rate in effect on the date of payment) and/or in New York, and shall indemnify such Lender against any losses or expenses that it shall sustain as a result of such alternative payment.
Following indefeasible payment in full in cash of all Borrower Obligations and the termination of the Commitments hereunder, upon payment by any Original Guarantor of any Borrower Obligations, each Lender shall, in a reasonable manner, assign the amount of such Borrower Obligations owed to it and paid by such Original Guarantor pursuant to this guarantee to such Original Guarantor, such assignment to be pro tanto to the extent to which the Borrower Obligations in question were discharged by such Guarantor, or make such Disposition thereof as such Original Guarantor shall direct (all without recourse to any Lender and without any representation or warranty by any Lender except with respect to the amount of the Borrower Obligations so assigned).
The Company in its capacity as a Guarantor hereby agrees that to the extent that a Subsidiary Guarantor shall have paid more than its proportionate share of any payment made hereunder, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be entitled to seek and receive contribution from and against any other Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder which has not paid its proportionate share of such payment. Each Subsidiary Guarantor's right of contribution shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the immediately following paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph shall in no respect limit the obligations and liabilities of any Subsidiary Guarantor to the Administrative Agents and the Lenders and each Subsidiary Guarantor shall remain liable to the Administrative Agents and the Lenders for the full amount guaranteed by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder.
 
Upon payment by any Original Guarantor of any sums as provided in this Section 8.16, all rights of the Original Guarantors against any Borrower arising as a result thereof by way of right of subrogation or otherwise shall in all respects be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the prior indefeasible payment in full of all the Borrower Obligations to the Lenders and termination of the Commitments.
Anything herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum liability of the Company in its capacity as a guarantor under this Section 8.16 shall in no event exceed the amount which can be guaranteed by the Company under applicable federal and state laws relating to the insolvency of debtors (after giving effect to the right of contribution established above).
Each Original Guarantor agrees that the Borrower Obligations may at any time and from time to time exceed the amount of the liability of such Original Guarantor hereunder without impairing the guarantee contained in this Section 8.16 or affecting the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder.
This is a continuing guaranty and applies to all Borrower Obligations whenever arising. This guarantee is irrevocable and will remain in full force and effect until the payment in full of the Borrower Obligations and all amounts payable hereunder and the termination of all of the agreements relating to the Borrower Obligations.
Section 8.17 . If, as a result of any nation's becoming a member of the European monetary union, (a) any currency ceases to be lawful currency of the nation issuing the same and is replaced by the Euro, then any amount payable hereunder by any party hereto in such currency shall instead be payable in Euros and the amount so payable shall be determined by translating the amount payable in such currency to Euros at the exchange rate recognized by the European Central Bank for the purpose of such nation's becoming a member of the European monetary union, or (b) any currency and the Euro are at the same time recognized by the central bank or comparable authority of the nation issuing such currency as lawful currency of such nation, then (i) any Loan made at such time shall be made in Euros and (ii) any other amount payable by any party hereto in such currency shall be payable in such currency or in Euros (in an amount determined as set forth in clause (a)), at the election of the obligor. Prior to the occurrence of the event or events described in clause (a) or (b) of the preceding sentence, each amount payable hereunder in any currency will continue to be payable only in that currency.
European Monetary Union
Section 8.18 . Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders expressly agree, for the benefit of Holdings and the Subsidiaries, to maintain the confidentiality of the Confidential Information (as defined below), except that Confidential Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Confidential Information and instructed to keep such Confidential Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory or self-regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding
Confidentiality
 
relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an express agreement for the benefit of Holdings and the Subsidiaries containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any direct or indirect counterparty to any Hedge Agreement (or any professional advisor to such counterparty) with Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries, (g) with the consent of Holdings or the Subsidiaries, as applicable, or (h) to the extent such Confidential Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than Holdings or the Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section, "Confidential Information" means all information, including material nonpublic information within the meaning of Regulation FD promulgated by the SEC ("Regulation FD"), received from Holdings or the Subsidiaries relating to such entities or their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by such entities; provided that, in the case of information received from Holdings or the Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Confidential Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information; provided, however, that with respect to disclosures pursuant to clauses (b) and (c) of this Section, unless prohibited by law or applicable court order, each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall attempt to notify Holdings and the Subsidiaries of any request by any governmental agency or representative thereof or other Person for disclosure of Confidential Information after receipt of such request, and if reasonable, practicable and permissible, before disclosure of such Confidential Information. It is understood and agreed that Holdings, the Subsidiaries and their respective Affiliates may rely upon this Section 8.18 for any purpose, including to comply with Regulation FD.
Section 8.19 . Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (The "Act"), it may be required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrowers in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date first above written.
 
SCHEDULE 1.1
 
SCHEDULE 2.1
 
SCHEDULE 5.10
None.
None.
EXHIBIT A
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders referred to below,
c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
270 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, Mead Johnson & Company (the ""), refers to the Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2009 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""), among Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, the Company, the Borrowing Subsidiaries, the Lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal Bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
Company
Agreement
The Company hereby [gives you] [confirms its prior oral] notice to you pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Agreement that it [requests] [has requested] a Revolving Borrowing under the Agreement [on behalf of], and in that connection sets forth below the terms on which such Revolving Borrowing [is] [has been] requested to be made:
 
 
Upon acceptance of any or all of the Loans made by the Lenders in response to this request, the Company [and the applicable Borrower] shall be deemed to have represented and warranted that the conditions to lending specified in Section 4.2(a), (b) and (c) of the Agreement have been satisfied. Any amounts borrowed shall be deposited in JPMCB account number [                    ].
 
EXHIBIT B
Reference is made to the Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2009 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""), among Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, Mead Johnson & Company, the Borrowing Subsidiaries, the Lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal Bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
Agreement
1. The Assignor hereby sells and assigns, without recourse, to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes, without recourse, from the Assignor, effective as of the Effective Date (as described below), the interests set forth below (the "") in the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Agreement, including, without limitation, the interests set forth below in the Commitment of the Assignor on the Effective Date and the Revolving Loans owing to the Assignor which are outstanding on the Effective Date, together with unpaid interest accrued on the assigned Loans to the Effective Date and the amount, if any, set forth below of the fees accrued to the Effective Date for the account of the Assignor. Each of the Assignor and the Assignee hereby makes and agrees to be bound by all the representations, warranties and agreements set forth in Section 8.4 of the Agreement, a copy of which has been received by each such party. From and after the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to and be bound by the provisions of the Agreement and, to the extent of the interests assigned by this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent of the interests assigned by this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Agreement.
Assigned Interest
2. This Assignment and Acceptance is being delivered to the Administrative Agent together with (i) if the Assignee is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, the forms specified in Section 2.16(g) of the Agreement, duly completed and executed by such Assignee, (ii) if the Assignee is not already a Lender under the Agreement, an Administrative Questionnaire and (iii) a processing and recordation fee of $3,500.
3. This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
EXHIBIT D
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders referred to below
c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
270 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (""), refers to the Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2009 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""), among Mead Johnson & Company, Holdings, the Borrowing Subsidiaries, the Lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal Bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
Holdings
Agreement
Pursuant to Section 2.19 of the Agreement, Holdings hereby designates [Name of Borrowing Subsidiary] (the "") as a Borrowing Subsidiary, and confirms that the Designated Borrowing Subsidiary is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary. The Designated Borrowing Subsidiary hereby agrees to be bound in all respects by the terms of the Agreement, including without limitation, Article IV thereof, and to perform all of the obligations of a Borrowing Subsidiary thereunder. Each reference to a Borrowing Subsidiary in the Agreement shall be deemed to include the Designated Borrowing Subsidiary.
Designated Borrowing Subsidiary
Each of Holdings and the Company hereby ratifies and confirms the guaranty set forth in Section of 8.16 of the Agreement with respect to all Loans made by any Lender to the Designated Borrowing Subsidiary.
The address to which communications to the Designated Borrowing Subsidiary under the Agreement should be directed is:
 
The Designated Borrowing Subsidiary's taxpayer identification number is: [                    ].
The Designated Borrowing Subsidiary hereby agrees to provide the Lenders with any additional information reasonably requested that will allow such Lender to identify the Designated Borrowing Subsidiary in accordance with the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)).
This instrument shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York. Loan proceeds should be deposited as provided in the Agreement.
Upon the execution of this Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement by Holdings, the Company and the Designated Borrowing Subsidiary, and the acceptance by the Administrative Agent, the Designated Borrowing Subsidiary shall become a Borrowing Subsidiary under the Agreement as though it were an original party thereto and shall be entitled to borrow under the Agreement upon the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.2(a), (b) and (c) of the Agreement.
 
EXHIBIT E
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders referred to below
c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
270 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10017
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (""), refers to the Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2009 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""), among Mead Johnson & Company, Holdings, the Borrowing Subsidiaries, the Lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal Bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
Holdings
Agreement
Pursuant to Section 2.19 of the Agreement, Holdings hereby elects to terminate the status of [Name of Borrowing Subsidiary] (the "") as a Designated Borrowing Subsidiary for purposes of the Agreement. The Company represents and warrants that no Loans made to the Terminated Borrowing Subsidiary are outstanding as of the date hereof and that all principal and interest on all amounts payable by the Terminated Borrowing Subsidiary pursuant to the Agreement have been paid in full on or prior to the date hereof.
Terminated Borrowing Subsidiary
This instrument shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
 
EXHIBIT F
SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE (this ""), dated as of                     , 20    , made by each of the entity that is a signatory hereto (the ""), in favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the "") for the lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Guarantee
Subsidiary Guarantors
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (""), Mead Johnson & Company (the ""), the Borrowing Subsidiaries, the Lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal Bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent have entered into the Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of February 17, 2009 (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the "");
Holdings
Company
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, the Credit Agreement requires the Subsidiary Guarantors to become Subsidiary Guarantors; and
WHEREAS, the Subsidiary Guarantors have agreed to execute and deliver this Guarantee;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED:
1. . In order to induce the Lenders to make Loans to the Company and the Borrowing Subsidiaries and otherwise extend credit to the Borrowers under the Credit Agreement, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees the Borrower Obligations of all the Borrowers. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that the Borrower Obligations may be extended and renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its agreement hereunder notwithstanding any extension or renewal of any Borrower Obligations.
Guarantee
Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives promptness, diligence, presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Borrowers of any Borrower Obligations and also waives notice of acceptance of its obligations and notice of protest for nonpayment. The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional and not be affected by (a) the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against any Borrower under the provisions of the Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or otherwise; (b) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of the Credit Agreement, any other Loan
Documents or any other agreement; (c) the failure of any Lender to exercise any right or remedy against any Borrower; (d) the invalidity or unenforceability of any Loan Document; (e) any change in the corporate or other existence or structure of any Borrower; (f) any claims or rights of set off that may be claimed by any Borrower; (g) any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction or any event affecting any term of any Borrower Obligations; or (h) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a defense available to or discharge of a Borrower or a guarantor (other than payment).
Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that its agreement hereunder constitutes a promise of payment when due and not of collection and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Lender to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of any Lender in favor of any Borrower or any other Person.
The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason and shall not be subject to any defense or setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever, by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Borrower Obligations or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Guarantee or under any other Loan Document or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification in respect of any thereof, by any default, failure or delay, wilful or otherwise, in the performance of the Borrower Obligations, or by any other act or omission which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of the Guarantors (or any of them) or otherwise operate as a discharge of the Guarantors (or any of them) as a matter of law or equity.
Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that its obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of principal of or interest on any Borrower Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrower or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have at law or in equity against the Guarantors (or any of them) by virtue hereof, upon the failure of any Borrower to pay any Borrower Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, each Guarantor hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Administrative Agent, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash the amount of such unpaid Borrower Obligations. In the event that, by reason of the bankruptcy of any Borrower, (i) acceleration of Loans made to such Borrower is prevented and (ii) the Guarantors shall not have prepaid the outstanding Loans and other amounts due under the Credit Agreement owed by such Borrower (and cash collateralization of obligations in respect of undrawn Letters of Credit), the Subsidiary Guarantors will forthwith purchase such Loans and other amounts at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon and any other amounts due under the Credit Agreement with respect thereto. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that if payment in respect of any Borrower Obligation shall be due in a currency other than Dollars and/or at a place of payment other than New York and if, by reason of any Change in
 
Law, disruption of currency or foreign exchange markets, war or civil disturbance or similar event, payment of such Borrower Obligations in such currency or such place of payment shall be impossible or, in the judgment of any applicable Lender, not consistent with the protection of its rights or interests, then, at the election of any applicable Lender, the Subsidiary Guarantors shall make payment of such Borrower Obligations in Dollars (based upon the applicable Exchange Rate in effect on the date of payment) and/or in New York, and shall indemnify such Lender against any losses or expenses that it shall sustain as a result of such alternative payment.
Following indefeasible payment in full in cash of all Borrower Obligations and the termination of the Commitments under the Credit Agreement, upon payment by any Subsidiary Guarantor of any Borrower Obligations, each Lender shall, in a reasonable manner, assign the amount of such Borrower Obligations owed to it and paid by such Original Guarantor pursuant to this guarantee to such Subsidiary Guarantor, such assignment to be pro tanto to the extent to which the Borrower Obligations in question were discharged by such Guarantor, or make such Disposition thereof as such Subsidiary Guarantor shall direct (all without recourse to any Lender and without any representation or warranty by any Lender except with respect to the amount of the Borrower Obligations so assigned).
Each Subsidiary Guarantor in its capacity as a Subsidiary Guarantor hereby agrees that to the extent that any other Subsidiary Guarantor (including for these purposes the Company) shall have paid more than its proportionate share of any payment made hereunder or under Section 8.16 of the Credit Agreement, such other Subsidiary Guarantor shall be entitled to seek and receive contribution from and against any Subsidiary Guarantor which has not paid its proportionate share of such payment. Each Subsidiary Guarantor's right of contribution shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the immediately following paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph shall in no respect limit the obligations and liabilities of any Subsidiary Guarantor to the Administrative Agents and the Lenders and each Subsidiary Guarantor shall remain liable to the Administrative Agents and the Lenders for the full amount guaranteed by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder.
Upon payment by any Subsidiary Guarantor of any sums as provided in this Guarantee, all rights of the Subsidiary Guarantors against any Borrower arising as a result thereof by way of right of subrogation or otherwise shall in all respects be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the prior indefeasible payment in full of all the Borrower Obligations to the Lenders and termination of the Commitments.
Anything herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum liability each Subsidiary Guarantor in its capacity as a guarantor under this Guarantee shall in no event exceed the amount which can be guaranteed by each Subsidiary Guarantor under applicable federal and state laws relating to the insolvency of debtors (after giving effect to the right of contribution established above).
Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that the Borrower Obligations may at any time and from time to time exceed the amount of the liability of such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder without impairing the guarantee contained in this Guarantee or affecting the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder.
 
This is a continuing guaranty and applies to all Borrower Obligations whenever arising. This guarantee is irrevocable and will remain in full force and effect until the payment in full of the Borrower Obligations and all amounts payable hereunder and the termination of all of the agreements relating to the Borrower Obligations.
2. . Each Subsidiary Guarantor acknowledges that the rights and responsibilities of the Agent under this Guarantee with respect to any action taken by the Administrative Agent or the exercise or non-exercise by the Administrative Agent of any option, right, request, judgment or other right or remedy provided for herein or resulting or arising out of this Guarantee shall, as between the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, be governed by the Credit Agreement and by such other agreements with respect thereto as may exist from time to time among them, but, as between the Administrative Agent and such Subsidiary Guarantor, the Administrative Agent shall be conclusively presumed to be acting as agent for the Lenders with full and valid authority so to act or refrain from acting, and no Subsidiary Guarantor shall be under any obligation, or entitlement, to make any inquiry respecting such authority.
Authority of Agent
3. . All notices, requests and demands to or upon the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Subsidiary Guarantor to be effective shall be in writing (or by fax or similar electronic transfer confirmed in writing) and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made (1) when delivered by hand or (2) if given by mail, when deposited in the mails by certified mail, return receipt requested, or (3) if by fax or similar electronic transfer, when sent and receipt has been confirmed, addressed as follows:
Notices
(a) if to the Administrative Agent, at its address or transmission number for notices provided in subsection 8.1 of the Credit Agreement; and
(b) if to any Subsidiary Guarantor, at its address or transmission number for notices set forth under its signature below.
The Administrative Agent and each Subsidiary Guarantor may change its address and transmission numbers for notices by notice in the manner provided in this Section.
4. . This Guarantee may be executed by one or more of the Subsidiary Guarantors on any number of separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. A set of the counterparts of this Guarantee signed by all the Subsidiary Guarantors shall be lodged with the Administrative Agent.
Counterparts
5. . Any provision of this Guarantee which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
6. . This Guarantee represents the agreement of each Subsidiary Guarantor with respect to the subject matter hereof and there are no promises or representations by the Administrative Agent or any Lender relative to the subject matter hereof not reflected herein.
Integration
 
7. . (a) None of the terms or provisions of this Guarantee may be waived, amended, supplemented or otherwise modified except by a written instrument executed by each Subsidiary Guarantor and the Administrative Agent, that any provision of this Subsidiary Guarantee may be waived by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in a letter or agreement executed by the Agent or by facsimile transmission from the Agent.
Amendments in Writing; No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
provided
Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender shall by any act (except by a written instrument pursuant to paragraph 7(a) hereof), delay, indulgence, omission or otherwise be deemed to have waived any right or remedy hereunder or to have acquiesced in any Default or Event of Default or in any breach of any of the terms and conditions hereof. No failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof. No single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder shall preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. A waiver by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of any right or remedy hereunder on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to any right or remedy which the Administrative Agent or such Lender would otherwise have on any future occasion.
The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative, may be exercised singly or concurrently and are not exclusive of any other rights or remedies provided by law.
8. . Section headings are for convenience of reference only, are not a part of this Guarantee and are not to affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Guarantee.
Headings
9. . THIS GUARANTEE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Applicable Law
10. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender, or any Affiliate thereof, to or for the credit or obligations of the Company, the applicable Borrowing Subsidiary and any Subsidiary Guarantor now or hereafter existing under the Credit Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under the Credit Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Company after such setoff and application made by such Lender, but the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
 
11. . (a) Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or Federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Subject to the foregoing and to paragraph (b) below, nothing in this Guarantee shall affect any right that any party hereto may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Guarantee against any other party hereto in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(b) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or thereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guarantee or the Credit Agreement in any New York State or Federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(c) Each party to this Guarantee irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 3. Nothing in this Guarantee will affect the right of any party to this Guarantee to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
(d) Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives, to the maximum extent not prohibited by law, any right it may have to claim or recover in any legal action or proceeding referred to in this Section for any special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages.
12. . Each party hereto hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Guarantee or the Credit Agreement. Each party hereto (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of any other party has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such other party would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waiver and (b) acknowledges that it and other parties hereto have been induced to enter into this Guarantee by, among other things, the mutual waivers and certification in this Section.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has caused this Subsidiary Guarantee to be duly executed and delivered by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
The undersigned, MEAD JOHNSON & COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (such corporation, together with its successors and assigns, herein called the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of E.R. SQUIBB & SONS, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (such company, together with its successors and assigns, the "") the outstanding part of the principal amount set forth above on February 17, 2014 with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance thereof at the rate per annum equal to the LIBO Rate (as defined in the Terms referred to below) plus 3.00% from the date hereof, payable quarterly, on each Payment Date (as defined in the Terms referred to below), until the principal amount hereof shall have been paid in full and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to the Default Rate (as defined in the Terms referred to below) on any overdue amount of principal of or interest on this floating rate note due 2014 (the ""), payable on demand.
Company
Payee
Note
The Note is subject to the terms set forth in Exhibit A hereto (the ""), including Article I thereof, which sets forth certain defined terms used in the Note, all of which are considered a part of the Note.
Terms
1.
Interest.
As provided in the Terms, interest shall accrue on the outstanding principal amount of the Note from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the earlier of the last day of such Interest Period and the day on which the Note is repaid or prepaid in full.
2.
Method of Payment.
The Company will pay principal of and interest on the Note by means of wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Payee, as set forth in the Terms. The Company will pay principal and interest in Dollars.
3.
Ranking.
The obligations under the Note will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank with all existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
pari
passu
4.
Amortization.
On June 1, 2010 and on each Payment Date thereafter until the last such day to occur prior to the Maturity Date, the Company shall pay to the Payee $18,750,000 as repayment of principal amount of the Note outstanding on such Payment Date.
5.
Optional Prepayment.
As set forth in the Terms, the Company shall have the right, at its option, at any time and from time to time to prepay the Note, in whole or in part, at face value of the outstanding principal amount and all interest accrued on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
6.
Notice of Prepayment.
The Payee shall be given prior written or telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by written or telecopy notice) at least five Business Days before the optional prepayment, as contemplated in the Terms.
7.
Guarantee.
The payment by the Company of the principal of and interest on the Note is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by Holdings as provided in, and subject to, the Terms.
8.
Covenants.
Holdings and the Company agree to comply with the covenants as set forth in the Terms, so long as any amount of principal of or interest on the Note or any expenses or other amounts payable under the Note shall be unpaid.
9.
Defaults and Remedies
If an Event of Default as set forth in the Terms occurs and is continuing, the Payee may declare all or any part of the outstanding principal amount of the Note to be due and payable immediately in the manner, at the price and with the effect provided in the Terms. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default that will result in the Note being due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
10.
Transferability of the Note
The Payee may transfer all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under the Note (including the principal amount of and interest on the Note at the time owing to it) without consent of the Company only to an Affiliate of the Payee. A transferee of the Note (or a portion of the Note) shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest transferred, have the rights and obligations of the Payee under the Note.
Upon surrender of the Note at the principal executive office of the Company for transfer or exchange, the Company shall execute and deliver one or more new notes in exchange therefor, payable to such Person as the Payee may request, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such new note shall be substantially in the form of the Note. Each such new note shall be dated and bear interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered Note or dated the date of the surrendered Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.
 
11.
Amendments; Successors and Assigns
Neither the Note nor any term hereof may be amended or waived orally or in writing, except that any term of the Note may be amended and the observance of any term of the Note may be waived with the written consent of the Company and the Payee. The provisions of the Note shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Payee and its successors and assigns. The Company's successors and assigns shall include a receiver, trustee or debtor-in-possession of or for the Company.
12.
No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Note or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting the Note, the Payee waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Note.
13.
Waiver of Certain Defenses by the Company
The Company's obligations under the Note are absolute and unconditional and shall not be subject to any defense, setoff or counterclaim that may at any time be available to or be asserted by the Company. The Company hereby waives, and agrees not to assert, any right to offset or interpose as a defense or counterclaim any claim against the Payee against its obligations under the Note. Demand, diligence, presentment, protest and notice of non-payment and protest are hereby waived by the Company.
14.
GOVERNING LAW
THE NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
15.
Jurisdiction
The Company and Holdings hereby submit to the exclusive personal jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the federal courts of the United States sitting in New York County, and any appellate court from any such state or federal court.
16.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE NOTE OR THE TRANSACTIONS
 
CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO EXECUTE THE NOTE BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS PARAGRAPH.
17.
Severability
Any provision of the Note held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. The parties hereto shall use their best efforts to replace the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable with a provision that the parties reasonably believe to be valid, legal and enforceable and which has a substantially identical economic and legal effect as the provision that was held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Note to be duly executed.
 
 
Acknowledged and agreed by:
 
Exhibit A
The Company, the Payee and Holdings agree that the following Terms shall apply to the Note. Any reference to the Note shall also constitute a reference to these Terms.
SECTION 1.01. As used in the Note, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"" shall mean, when used with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation.
BMS
"" shall mean any day (other than a day which is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of New York) on which banks are open for business in New York City.
Business Day
"" of any Person shall mean the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of the Note, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" shall mean any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
"" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following: (a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to Holdings or one of its Subsidiaries; (b) the consummation of any transaction (including any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, or primary or secondary sale of stock) the result of which is that the Principal Shareholder ceases to be the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of Holdings, measured by voting power rather
Change in Control
than number of shares; (c) the first day on which the majority of the members of the board of directors of Holdings cease to be Continuing Directors; or (d) Holdings ceasing to own, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, 100% of the Capital Stock in the Company.
"" shall mean the China Services Agreement dated February 10, 2009, by and among BMS and Holdings.
China Services Agreement
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph of the Note.
Company
"" shall mean, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period , without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) interest expense, amortization or write-off of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Debt (including the Note), (c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) costs, expenses and charges related to the IPO and the separation of Mead Johnson Nutritionals, a division of the Principal Shareholder, from the Principal Shareholder not to exceed $31,000,000 in 2009, $22,000,000 in 2010 and $5,000,000 in 2011, (e) amortization of intangibles (including goodwill) and organization costs and (f) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or losses or other non-cash charges (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, non-cash losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business) which Holdings reasonably believes will not result in a cash charge or payment, and , to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (i) interest income and (ii) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business) and any other non-cash income, all as determined on a consolidated basis. For the purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (each, a "Reference Period") pursuant to any determination of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, (A) if at any time during such Reference Period Holdings or any Subsidiary shall have made any Material Disposition, the Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if positive) attributable to the property that is the subject of such Material Disposition for such Reference Period or increased by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if negative) attributable thereto for such Reference Period and (B) if during such Reference Period Holdings or any Subsidiary shall have made a Material Acquisition, Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be calculated after giving effect thereto as if such Material Acquisition occurred on the first day of such Reference Period. As used in this definition, "Material Acquisition" means any acquisition of property or series of related acquisitions of property that (1) constitutes assets comprising all or
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
pro
forma
 
substantially all of an operating unit of a business or constitutes all or substantially all of the common stock of a Person and (2) involves the payment of consideration by Holdings and its Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000; and "Material Disposition" means any Disposition of property or series of related Dispositions of property that yields gross proceeds to Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of $25,000,000. Notwithstanding the forgoing, Consolidated EBITDA shall be deemed to be (y) $200,500,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about June 30, 2008 and (z) $185,400,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about September 30, 2008. Consolidated EBITDA for the fiscal quarter ending on or about January 1, 2009 and for the portion of the fiscal quarter ending on or about March 31, 2009 prior to the date of the Note shall be determined based on the financial results of the Mead Johnson Nutritionals, a division of BMS, for such periods.
"" shall mean, for any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
"" shall mean, for any period, total interest expense of Holdings and its Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Consolidated Interest Expense shall be deemed to be (i) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about June 30, 2008, (ii) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about September 30, 2008, (iii) $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter ended on or about December 31, 2008, and (iv) the pro rata portion of $26,000,000 for the fiscal quarter beginning on or about January 1, 2009 until the date of the Note.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" shall mean, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
"shall mean, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that there shall be excluded, without duplication, (a) the income (or deficit) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Subsidiary of Holdings or is merged into or consolidated with Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) the income (or deficit) of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of Holdings) in which Holdings or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any such income is actually received by Holdings or such Subsidiary in the form of dividends or similar distributions and (c) the undistributed earnings of any Subsidiary of Holdings to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary is not at the time permitted by the terms of any contractual obligation (other than the Intercompany Notes or Revolving Credit Facility) applicable to such Subsidiary.
Consolidated Net Income"
provided
"" shall mean, at any date, the aggregate amount of all indebtedness of Holdings and its Subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, , without duplication, the aggregate amount of Guarantees by Holdings and its Subsidiaries of obligations of other Persons (other than Holdings and its Subsidiaries) that would be treated as indebtedness of such Persons determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Debt
plus
 
"" shall mean, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of Holdings who: (a) was a member of such board of directors on the date of the Note; or (b) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination or election.
Continuing Director
"" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. The terms "" and "" shall have correlative meanings.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" of any Person shall mean (i) all obligations represented by notes, bonds, debentures or similar evidences of indebtedness; (ii) all indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services other than, in the case of any such deferred purchase price, on normal trade terms; (iii) all rental obligations as lessee under leases which shall have been or should be recorded as Capital Lease Obligations; (iv) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (v) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit, surety bonds or similar arrangements; (vi) the liquidation value of all preferred Capital Stock of such Person which is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof or which may become (by scheduled or mandatory redemption) due within one year of the final Maturity Date; (vii) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vi) above, (viii) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vii) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by the applicable Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation; and (ix) for the purposes of paragraph (e) of Article V only, all obligations in respect of Hedge Agreements. The Debt of any Person shall include Debt of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefore as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Debt expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Debt
"" shall mean any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 2.01(c).
Default Rate
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any property, any sale, lease, sale and leaseback, assignment, conveyance, transfer or other disposition thereof. The terms "" and "" shall have correlative meanings.
Disposition
Dispose
Disposed of
"" or "" shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" shall mean any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with Holdings, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" shall mean (i) a "Reportable Event" described in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued thereunder (other than a "Reportable Event" not subject to the provision for 30-day notice to the PBGC under such regulations), (ii) the withdrawal of Holdings or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a "single employer" Plan during a plan year in which it was a "substantial employer", both of such terms as defined in Section 4001(a) of ERISA, (iii) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Plan or the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 of ERISA, (iv) the institution of proceedings to terminate a Plan by the PBGC, (v) any other event or condition which is reasonably likely to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan, or (vi) the partial or complete withdrawal of Holdings or any ERISA Affiliate of Holdings from a Multiemployer Plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
ERISA Termination Event
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Article V.
Event of Default
"" shall mean Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" shall mean the government of any nation, including the United States of America, or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") shall mean any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
 
lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation, or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Debt or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
provided
"" shall mean all interest rate swaps, caps or collar agreements or similar arrangements dealing with interest rates or currency exchange rates or the exchange of nominal interest obligations, either generally or under specific contingencies.
Hedge Agreements
"" shall mean Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, a Delaware corporation.
Holdings
"" shall mean, collectively, (i) the Note, (ii) the $500,000,000 amended and restated fixed rate note due 2016 between the Payee and the Company, (iii) the $500,000,000 amended and restated fixed rate note due 2019 between the Payee and the Company, and (iv) the note with aggregate principal amount of Venezuelan Bolivar equivalent of $5,753,744 issued by Mead Johnson Nutrition Venezuela, S.C.A., a Venezuelan Subsidiary of Holdings, and payable to Bristol-Myers de Venezuela, S.C.A., a Venezuelan subsidiary of the Principal Shareholder.
Intercompany Notes
"" shall mean the period commencing on the date of the Note or on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period applicable to the Note, as the case may be, and ending on the earliest of (a) the next succeeding March 1, June 1, September 1 or December 1 and (b) the Maturity Date; that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day; and (ii) the first Interest Period after the date of the Note will end on June 1, 2009.
Interest Period
provided
"" shall mean the initial public offering of Class A common stock of Holdings described in the Form S-1 filed on December 18, 2008 (No. 333-156298), by Holdings with the SEC with respect to such initial public offering, as amended from time to time.
IPO
"" shall mean (a) with respect to any Interest Period, the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate appearing on the appropriate Telerate screen with respect to deposits in Dollars (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Payee from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Dollars, as applicable, in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in Dollars with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that any such rate is not available at such time for any
LIBO Rate
 
reason, then the "" for such Interest Period shall be determined by reference to such other comparable publicly available service for displaying eurodollar rates as may be selected by the Payee or, in the absence of such availability, by reference to the rate at which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (or the principal London office of any Affiliate thereof) is offered deposits in Dollars at or about 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the London interbank market for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein.
LIBO Rate
"" shall mean any mortgage, lien, pledge, encumbrance, charge or security interest.
Lien
"" shall mean a material adverse effect on the business, operations, properties or financial condition of Holdings and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
"" shall mean February 17, 2014.
Maturity Date
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph hereof.
Note
"" shall mean (a) the due and punctual payment of (i) the principal of and interest (including interest accruing during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) on the Note, when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise, and (ii) of all other monetary obligations under the Note, including obligations to pay fees, indemnification obligations and other obligations, whether primary, secondary, direct, contingent, fixed or otherwise, of the Company to the Payee (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding), and (b) the due and punctual performance of all covenants, agreements, obligations and liabilities of the Company or any Subsidiary under or pursuant to the Note (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding).
Obligations
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph of the Note.
Payee
"" shall mean, with respect to the Note, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to the Note.
Payment Date
"" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" shall mean (i) Debt of any Subsidiary (including the Company) to Holdings or the Company, (ii) Guarantees by any Subsidiary (including the Company) of Debt of Holdings or the Company and Guarantees by the Company of any
Permitted Debt
 
Debt of any Subsidiary, (iii) Debt arising under the Revolving Credit Facility and its Permitted Refinancing (including any Guarantees thereof), (iv) Debt owed to the Principal Shareholder, including the Intercompany Notes and their Permitted Refinancing, and (v) unsecured trade accounts payable and other unsecured current Debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and not more than 120 days past due (but excluding from such unsecured current Debt, any Debt for borrowed money).
"" of any Debt shall mean direct or indirect repayment or refinancing of such Debt or its Permitted Refinancing with any other Debt (or proceeds thereof) that (a) is unsecured (except as permitted by Sections 4.02(p) or 4.02(q)), (b) is issued only by the Company (or, as permitted below, by Holdings) and, if guaranteed, is guaranteed only by Persons that are guarantors of the Note (it being understood that each Subsidiary that guarantees Permitted Refinancing shall become a guarantor of the Note), (c) does not require scheduled principal payments in amounts or at times greater than or earlier than scheduled principal payments of the Debt subject to repayment or refinancing as scheduled on the date hereof, and (d) contains covenants and events of default taken as a whole that are not more disadvantageous to the Payee than those of the Debt subject to repayment or refinancing as in effect on the date hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Permitted Refinancing may be issued by Holdings and guaranteed by the Company or one or more Subsidiaries, if it otherwise complies with foregoing clauses (a) through (d).
Permitted Refinancing
"" shall mean any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" shall mean any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA), subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code that is maintained for current or former employees, or any beneficiary thereof, of Holdings or any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation, and its Affiliates.
Principal Shareholder
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 2.02(a).
Quarterly Amortization Payment
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 4.10.
Restricted Payment
"" shall mean the $410,000,000 Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of February 17, 2009, among Holdings, the Company, the borrowing subsidiaries thereto, the lenders thereto, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as Administrative Agent.
Revolving Credit Facility
 
"" shall mean any arrangement with any Person pursuant to which Holdings or any Subsidiary leases any property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by Holdings or the Subsidiary to such Person.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean (i) the China Services Agreement, (ii) the Separation Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2009, among BMS, Holdings and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (iii) the Transitional Services Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2009, between BMS and Holdings, and (iv) the Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2009, between BMS and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc.
Separation Agreements
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, (i) for purposes of Sections 4.03 and 4.06 only, any Person the majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent of such Person and (ii) for all other purposes under the Note, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held.
subsidiary
parent
"" shall mean a subsidiary of Holdings.
Subsidiary
"" shall mean any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority and all liabilities with respect thereto.
Taxes
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the Note.
Terms
"" shall mean, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments with respect to the term of the lease remaining on the date as of which the amount is being determined, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease, discounted at the market interest rate for the Debt of the Company (as determined in good faith by the board of directors of the Company).
Value
"" shall mean, as applied to the stock of any corporation, stock of any class or classes (however designated) having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors (or other governing body) of such corporation other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
 
"" of any Person shall mean a subsidiary of such Person of which securities (except for directors' qualifying shares) or other ownership interests representing 100% of the equity are, at the time any determination is being made, owned by such Person or one or more wholly owned subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more wholly owned subsidiaries of such Person.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
SECTION 1.02. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (and, in case of the Payee, its successors, assigns and transferees of the Note), (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to the Note (including the Terms) in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references in the Terms to Articles, Sections, Paragraphs, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles, Sections and Paragraphs of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Terms and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally.
SECTION 1.03. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Company notifies the Payee that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Payee requests an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision shall have been amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
provided
SECTION 2.01. Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) below, the Note shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount at the rate per annum equal to the LIBO Rate plus 3.00%, payable on the Payment Dates, except as otherwise provided herein. All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days.
Interest. (a) 
 
(b) Interest shall accrue from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the earlier of the last day of such Interest Period and the day on which the Note is repaid or prepaid in full.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on the Note or any fee or other amount payable by the Company hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to 2% per annum plus the rate otherwise applicable to the Note (the "").
Default Rate
(d) Accrued interest on the outstanding principal amount of the Note shall be payable in arrears on each Payment Date and upon repayment or prepayment of the principal amount of the Note in full; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to Section 2.01(c) shall be payable on demand, and (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any part of the outstanding principal amount of the Note, accrued interest on such principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment.
provided
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Company shall pay to the Payee, on each Payment Date, beginning from and including June 1, 2010 and ending with the last such day to occur prior to the Maturity Date, in an amount for each such date of $18,750,000 of the principal amount of the Note outstanding on the Payment Date (the "").
Amortization.
Quarterly Amortization Payment
(b) Any optional prepayment made pursuant to Section 2.03 below shall be applied to reduce the subsequent Quarterly Amortization Payments in direct order of maturity.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Company shall have the right at any time and from time to time, at its option, to prepay, in whole or in part, the outstanding principal amount of the Note and the amount of all interest accrued on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment, upon at least five Business Days' prior written or telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by written or telecopy notice) to the Payee before 12:00 (noon), New York City time; , , that each partial prepayment shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000.
Optional Prepayment of the principal amount of the Note.
provided
however
(b) Each notice of prepayment shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of the Note (or portion of the Note) to be prepaid, shall be irrevocable and shall commit the Company to prepay the Note by the amount stated herein on the date stated herein. All prepayments under this Section 2.03 shall be without premium or penalty. All prepayments under this Section shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
 
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Company shall pay to the Payee, on the Maturity Date, the outstanding principal amount of the Note, together with accrued and unpaid interest on such principal amount to but excluding the date of such payment.
Repayment of the principal amount of the Note.
(b) Any prepayment, voluntary or mandatory, retirement or amortization of the principal amount of the Note by the Company shall reduce the outstanding principal amount of the Note. No interest shall accrue on the principal amount that has been repaid (prepaid) from and including the day of the repayment (prepayment).
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Payee shall, and is hereby authorized by the Company to, endorse on the schedule attached to the Note delivered to the Payee (or on a continuation of such schedule attached to the Note and made a part hereof), or otherwise to record in the Payee's internal records, an appropriate notation evidencing the date and amount of the Note, each payment and prepayment of principal of the Note, each payment of interest on the Note and the other information provided for on such schedule; , , that the failure of the Payee to make such a notation or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Company to repay the Note in accordance with the terms hereof.
Maintenance of Accounts.
provided
however
(b) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (a) above shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations therein recorded; , , that the failure of the Payee to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligations of the Company to repay the Note in accordance with its terms.
prima
facie
provided
however
SECTION 2.06. (a) The Company shall make each payment (including principal of or interest on the Note and other amounts) under the Note not later than 12:00 (noon), New York City time, on the date when due in immediately available funds in Dollars, without setoff, defense or counterclaim. Each payment of principal of or interest on the Note shall be made to the Payee of the Note by means of wire transfer for the account of the Payee to account number 777168345, Credit Name: ER & Squibb & Sons, LLC, ABA 021000021 at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (or to such other account as shall have been specified by a holder of the Note in one or more notices delivered to the Company).
Payments.
(b) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, any payment of principal of or interest on the Note that is due on a date other than a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day without including the additional days elapsed in the computation of the interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day (it being understood that such excluded interest shall be payable on the next following Payment Date); that if the Maturity Date of the Note or other date, when all the outstanding principal amount of the Note is repaid in full, is a date other than a Business Day, then and in such event, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, but shall include the additional days elapsed in the computation of interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day.
provided
 
Holdings and the Company covenant and agree with the Payee that so long as the Note shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on the Note or any fees or any other amounts payable hereunder shall be unpaid, and unless the Payee shall otherwise consent in writing, Holdings and the Company will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to:
SECTION 3.01. Do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and its rights and franchises that are material to the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries as a whole, except as expressly permitted under Section 4.01 and except, in the case of any Subsidiary, where the failure to do so would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence.
SECTION 3.02. Comply in all respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority (including environmental and safety laws and ERISA), whether now in effect or hereafter enacted except instances that could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and at all times maintain and preserve all property material to the conduct of the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries as a whole and keep such property in good repair, working order and condition and from time to time make, or cause to be made, all needful and proper repairs, renewals, additions, improvements and replacements thereto necessary in order that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times, except where the failure to do so would not result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Business and Properties.
SECTION 3.03. Keep their insurable properties adequately insured at all times by financially sound and reputable insurers (which may include captive insurers), and maintain such other insurance or self insurance, to such extent and against such risks, including fire and other risks insured against by extended coverage, as is customary with companies similarly situated and in the same or similar businesses.
Insurance.
SECTION 3.04. Give the Payee written notice of the following within five Business Days after any executive officer of Holdings or the Company obtains knowledge thereof:
Litigation and Other Notices.
(a) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding which Holdings or the Company reasonably expects to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
(b) any Event of Default or Default, specifying the nature and extent thereof and the action (if any) which is proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
 
Holdings and the Company covenant and agree with the Payee that so long as the Note shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on the Note or any fees or any other amounts payable hereunder shall be unpaid, unless the Payee shall otherwise consent in writing, Holdings and the Company will not, and will not permit any of the Subsidiaries to:
SECTION 4.01. (a) In the case of Holdings and the Company, consolidate or merge with or into any other Person or liquidate, wind up or dissolve (or suffer any liquidation or dissolution) or (b) in the case of Holdings or the Company, sell, or otherwise transfer (in one transaction or a series of transactions), all or substantially all of the assets of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case to any other Person; that (1) Holdings may merge or consolidate with another Person if (A) Holdings is the corporation surviving such merger and (B) immediately after giving effect to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (2) the Company may merge or consolidate with another Person if (A) the Company is the corporation surviving such merger and (B) immediately after giving effect to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; that Holdings and the Company may not merge or otherwise combine with each other unless Holdings is the corporation surviving such merger.
Consolidations, Mergers, and Sales of Assets.
provided
provided
further
SECTION 4.02. Create, assume or suffer to exist and will not permit any of the Subsidiaries to create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any property, except that the foregoing shall not prevent Holdings or any Subsidiary from creating, assuming or suffering to exist any of the following Liens:
Liens.
(a) Liens existing on the date hereof;
(b) any Lien existing on property owned or leased by any Person at the time it becomes a Subsidiary, provided that such Lien was not created in anticipation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary;
(c) any Lien existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof by Holdings or any Subsidiary, provided that such Lien was not created in anticipation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary;
(d) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the acquisition of any fixed assets (but not assets constituting a line of business) for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof;
(e) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the completion of the construction, alteration, repair or improvement of any property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost thereof;
 
(f) any Lien to secure Debt of a Subsidiary owing to Holdings or to another Subsidiary;
(g) Liens for Taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet due or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, provided that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of Holdings or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP;
(h) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business that are not more than 60 days delinquent in accordance with their terms or that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
(i) pledges or deposits in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation and deposits securing liability to insurance carriers under insurance or self-insurance arrangements;
(j) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(k) any interest or title of a lessor under any lease entered into by Holdings or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of its business and covering only the assets so leased;
(l) Liens arising from precautionary Uniform Commercial Code financing statement filings with respect to operating leases or consignment arrangements entered into by Holdings or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business;
(m) customary Liens in favor of a banking institution arising by operation of law encumbering deposits (including the right of set-off) held by such banking institutions incurred in the ordinary course of business and that are within the general parameters customary in the banking industry;
(n) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in clauses (a) through (m) above, so long as the principal amount of the Debt secured thereby does not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement (except that, where an additional principal amount of Debt is incurred to provide funds for the completion of a specific project, the additional principal amount, and any related financing costs, may be secured by the Lien as well) and such Lien is limited to the same property subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (and improvements on such property);
(o) Liens securing any Obligations or Guarantees in respect thereof;
(p) Liens securing obligations arising under the Revolving Credit Facility (including the "Loan Documents" as defined therein) and its Permitted Refinancing so
 
long as all Obligations as well as any Guarantees thereof shall be secured by such Lien equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Debt and for so long as such Debt shall be so secured;
(q) Liens securing obligations under any other Intercompany Note, its Permitted Refinancing or any Guarantees of any of the foregoing (but in the case of the $500,000,000 amended and restated fixed rate note due 2016 between the Payee and the Company or the $500,000,000 amended and restated fixed rate note due 2019 between the Payee and the Company, their Permitted Refinancing or Guarantees of any of the foregoing, attaching only to any "Restricted Property" as defined therein) so long as all Obligations as well as any Guarantees thereof shall be secured by such Lien equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Debt and for so long as such Debt shall be so secured; and
(r) any Lien not permitted by clauses (a) through (q) above securing Debt which, together with the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all other Debt of Holdings and the Subsidiaries owning which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions and the aggregate Value of Sale and Leaseback Transactions, does not at any time exceed $125,000,000.
SECTION 4.03. Enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, or permit any Subsidiary to do so, unless Holdings, the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Debt, in a principal amount at least equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, which is secured by Liens on the property to be leased (without equally and ratably securing the obligations under the Note) without violating Sections 4.02 or 4.04.
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
SECTION 4.04. Permit Subsidiaries of Holdings to create, issue, incur, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist any Debt (other than Permitted Debt) in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000 outstanding at any time.
Indebtedness.
SECTION 4.05. (a)  Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.00 on the last day of each fiscal quarter of Holdings.
Financial Covenants.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
(b)  Permit the Consolidated Interest Expense Ratio to be less than 3.00 to 1.00 on the last day of each fiscal quarter for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters.
Consolidated Interest Expense Ratio.
SECTION 4.06. Enter into any material transaction, including any purchase, sale, lease or exchange of property, the rendering of any service or the payment of any management, advisory or similar fees, with any Affiliate, or permit any Subsidiary to do so, except any such transaction which is (a) not otherwise prohibited under the Note and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to Holdings or the relevant Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person that is not an Affiliate, (b) entered into on or prior to the date hereof or contemplated by any agreement entered into prior to the date hereof,
Transactions with Affiliates.
 
(c) between or among Holdings and/or one or more Subsidiaries exclusively, (d) any Restricted Payment, or (e) any arrangements with officers, directors, representatives or other employees of Holdings or any Subsidiary relating specifically to employment as such.
SECTION 4.07. (a) Enter into or suffer to exist or become effective any agreement that prohibits or limits the ability of Holdings or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, to secure its obligations under the Note to which it is a party other than (i) the Intercompany Notes or any document or instrument governing their Permitted Refinancing; (ii) restrictions in the Revolving Credit Facility (including the "Loan Document" as defined therein) and its Permitted Refinancing, in each case, as long as such restrictions are no more restrictive than those in effect thereunder on the date of the Note; and (iii) any agreements governing any purchase money Liens or Capital Lease Obligations otherwise permitted hereby (in which case, any prohibition or limitation shall only be effective against the assets financed thereby).
Restrictive Agreements.
(b) Enter into or suffer to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Subsidiary of Holdings to (i) pay dividends or make distributions in respect of any Capital Stock of such Subsidiary held by, or pay any Debt owed to, the Company or any other Subsidiary of Holdings, (ii) make loans or advances to, or other investments in, Holdings or any other Subsidiary of Holdings or (iii) transfer any of its assets to Holdings or any other Subsidiary of Holdings, except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (A) any restrictions existing under the Intercompany Notes or any document or instrument governing their Permitted Refinancing, (B) any restrictions existing under the Revolving Credit Facility (including the "Loan Documents" as defined therein) and its Permitted Refinancing, in each case, as long as such restrictions are no more restrictive than those in effect thereunder on the date of the Note, (C) applicable law, (D) customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other agreements entered in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices, (E) customary restrictions in security agreements, mortgages or capital leases securing Debt to the extent such restrictions only restrict the transfer of the property subject to such security agreement, mortgage or capital lease, and (F) any restrictions with respect to a Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement that has been entered into in connection with the Disposition of all or substantially all of the Capital Stock or assets of such Subsidiary.
SECTION 4.08. (a) Amend, supplement, waive or otherwise modify the Revolving Credit Facility, any other Intercompany Notes or any Permitted Refinancing of any of the foregoing in a way that is materially adverse to the Payee.
Amendment of Separation Agreements, Revolving Credit Facility and its Permitted Refinancing.
(b) Amend or otherwise modify, or fail to enforce in a timely way, its rights under the Separation Agreements, if such amendment, modification or failure would or would be reasonably likely to, result in a Material Adverse Affect.
 
SECTION 4.09. Permit any Subsidiary of Holdings (other than the Company) to create, incur, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist, as a subsidiary borrower or as a guarantor, any obligations or any indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility or its Permitted Refinancing, unless such Subsidiary irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, to the Payee, its successors and permitted transferees of the Note the due and punctual payment and performance of the Obligations (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by amortization, by optional prepayment or otherwise), on the same terms and conditions as those set forth in Article VI for Holdings' guarantee.
Maintenance of Structural Parity.
SECTION 4.10. Declare or pay any dividend (other than dividends payable solely in common stock of the Person making such dividend) on, or make any payment on account of, or set apart assets for a sinking or other analogous fund for, the purchase, redemption, defeasance, retirement or other acquisition of, any Capital Stock of Holdings, the Company or any Subsidiary, whether now or hereafter outstanding, or make any other distribution in respect thereof, either directly or indirectly, whether in cash or property or in obligations of Holdings, the Company or any Subsidiary (collectively, ""), if after giving effect thereto there shall be a Default, except that any Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to Holdings or any Wholly Owned Subsidiary; provided that if there shall not be a Default at the time such dividend is declared, such dividend may be paid within 60 days of declaration notwithstanding that there may be a Default on the date of payment.
Restricted Payments.
Restricted Payments
In case of the occurrence of any of the following events (each an ""):
Event of Default
(a) default shall be made in the payment of any principal of the Note when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Maturity Date or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by amortization, acceleration thereof or otherwise;
(b) default shall be made in the payment of any interest on the Note or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in paragraph (a) above) due under the Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days;
(c) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 3.04, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03; 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09 or 4.10;
(d) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained herein (other than those specified in (a), (b) or (c) above) and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Payee to Holdings or the Company;
 
(e) Holdings or any Subsidiary shall (i) fail to pay any principal or interest, regardless of amount, due in respect of one or more items of Debt in an aggregate principal amount greater than or equal to $75,000,000, when and as the same shall become due and payable (giving effect to any applicable grace period), or (ii) fail to observe or perform any other term, covenant, condition or agreement contained in any agreement or instrument evidencing or governing any such Debt if the effect of any failure referred to in this clause (ii) is to cause, or to permit the holder or beneficiary of such Debt (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or beneficiary) to cause, such Debt to become due prior to its stated maturity or, in the case of any such Debt constituting a Guarantee Obligation, to become payable;
(f) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (i) relief in respect of Holdings or any Subsidiary, or of a substantial part of the property or assets of Holdings or any Subsidiary, under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Holdings or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of the property or assets of Holdings or any Subsidiary, or (iii) the winding up or liquidation of Holdings or any Subsidiary; and such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(g) Holdings or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or the filing of any petition described in (f) above, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for Holdings or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of the property or assets of Holdings or any Subsidiary, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, (vi) become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due or (vii) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(h) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount equal to or greater than $75,000,000 (exclusive of any amount thereof covered by insurance) shall be rendered against Holdings, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed (for this purpose, a judgment shall be effectively stayed during a period when it is not yet due and payable), or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to levy upon assets or properties of Holdings or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(i) (i) a Plan of Holdings or any Subsidiary shall fail to maintain the minimum funding standard required by Section 412 of the Code for any plan year or a
 
waiver of such standard is sought or granted under Section 412(d), (ii) an ERISA Termination Event shall have occurred with respect to Holdings or any Subsidiary or an ERISA Affiliate has incurred or is reasonably likely to incur a liability to or on account of a Plan under Section 4062, 4063, 4064, 4201 or 4204 of ERISA, (iii) Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate shall engage in any prohibited transaction described in Sections 406 of ERISA or 4975 of the Code for which a statutory or class exemption is not available or a private exemption has not been previously obtained from the United States Department of Labor, (iv) Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to pay any required installment or any other payment required to be paid by such entity under Section 412 of the Code on or before the due date for such installment or other payment, or (v) Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to make any contribution or payment to any Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) which Holdings or any Subsidiary or any ERISA Affiliate is required to make under any agreement relating to such Multiemployer Plan or any law pertaining thereto, and there shall result from any such event or events either a liability or a material risk of incurring a liability to the PBGC or a Plan which will have a Material Adverse Effect;
(j) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(k) the guarantee in Article VI shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by the Company or Holdings not to be, a valid and binding obligation on the part of Holdings;
, and in every such event (i) (other than an event with respect to the Company described in paragraph (f) or (g) above), at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Payee may, by notice to the Company, declare the Note to be forthwith due and payable in whole or in part, whereupon the principal of the Note so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company accrued hereunder, shall become forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company, anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, and exercise all other remedies available to it under the Note or otherwise; and (ii) in any event with respect to Holdings or the Company described in paragraph (f) or (g) above, the principal of the Note then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company, accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company, anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding. If, at any time before the Maturity Date, the Note shall have been accelerated pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence, and the Payee shall not have obtained a judgment or decree for the payment of amounts due as a result of such acceleration, the Payee that shall have accelerated the Note may rescind and annul such acceleration and its consequences if (x) the Company shall have paid all principal, interest and other amounts due hereunder or under the Note (other than by reason of such acceleration) and (y) all other Events of Default shall have been cured or waived. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right of the Payee or any of them consequent thereon.
then
 
SECTION 6.01. Holdings hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, to the Payee, its successors and permitted transferees of the Note the due and punctual payment and performance of the Obligations (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by amortization, by optional prepayment or otherwise), strictly in accordance with the terms thereof. Holdings further agrees that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any Obligation. Holdings waives promptness, diligence, presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Payee or the Company of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its guarantee and notice of protest for nonpayment.
Guarantee.
SECTION 6.02. Holdings further agrees that its guarantee hereunder constitutes a guarantee of payment when due (whether or not any bankruptcy or similar proceeding shall have stayed the accrual of collection of any of the Obligations or operated as a discharge thereof) and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by the Payee to any security held for the payment of the Obligations or to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of the Payee in favor of the Company, any other party, or any other Person. Holdings agrees that its guarantee hereunder is continuing in nature and applies to all Obligations, whether currently existing or hereafter incurred. Holdings' guarantee hereunder is irrevocable and will remain in full force and effect until the payment in full of the Obligations and all amounts payable hereunder and the termination of all of the agreements relating to the Obligations.
Guarantee of Payment; Continuing Guarantee.
SECTION 6.03. (a) Except for termination of Holdings' obligations hereunder as expressly provided in Section 6.04, the obligations of Holdings hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional and not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, including any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense or set-off, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of the Obligations, or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of Holdings hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by (i) the failure of the Payee to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy under the provisions of the Note or otherwise; (ii) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or any release from any of the terms or provisions of the Note or any other agreement; (iii) any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations; (iv) any change in the corporate existence or structure of the Company; (v) any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction or any event affecting any term of any Obligation; or (vi) any other act or omission that may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of Holdings or otherwise operate as a discharge of Holdings as a matter of law or equity (other than the indefeasible payment in full in cash of all the Obligations).
No Limitations.
 
(b) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Holdings waives any defense based on or arising out of any defense of the Company or the unenforceability of the Obligations or any part thereof from any cause, or the cessation from any cause of the liability of the Company, other than the indefeasible payment in full in cash of all the Obligations. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Holdings waives any defense arising out of any such election even though such election operates, pursuant to applicable law, to impair or to extinguish any right of reimbursement or subrogation or other right or remedy of Holdings against the Company.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of Holdings under this Article VI shall terminate when all the Obligations have been paid in full. The obligations of Holdings under this Article VI shall continue to be effective or be automatically reinstated, as the case may be, if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of the Company in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by the Payee, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and Holdings agrees that it will indemnify the Payee on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including fees of counsel) incurred by the Payee in connection with such rescission or restoration.
Termination; Reinstatement.
SECTION 6.05. In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right that the Payee has at law or in equity against Holdings by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Company to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, Holdings hereby promises to and will forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the Payee in cash the amount of such unpaid Obligation.
Agreement to Pay.
SECTION 6.06. In addition to all such rights of indemnity and subrogation as the Holdings may have under applicable law, the Company agrees that in the event a payment in respect of any Obligation shall be made by Holdings under this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Holdings for the full amount of such payment and Holdings shall be subrogated to the rights of the Payee to the extent of such payment. All rights of Holdings under this Section and all other rights of Holdings of indemnity, contribution or subrogation under applicable law or otherwise shall be fully subordinated and junior in right of payment to the indefeasible payment in full in cash of the Obligations. No failure on the part of the Company to make the payments required by this Section shall in any respect limit the obligations and liabilities of Holdings with respect to its obligations hereunder, and Holdings shall remain liable for the full amount of the obligations of Holdings hereunder.
Subrogation.
SECTION 6.07. Holdings (a) assumes all responsibility for being and keeping itself informed of the Company's financial condition and assets, and of all other circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of the Obligations and the nature, scope and extent of the risks that Holdings assumes and incurs hereunder, and (b) agrees that the Payee will have no duty to advise Holdings of information known to it regarding such circumstances or risks.
Information.
 
SECTION 6.08. Holdings agrees that the obligations of the Company under the Note may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Article V hereof (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Article V hereof) for purposes of Section 6.01 hereof notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing such obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against the Company and that, in the event of such declaration (or such obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), such obligations (whether or not due and payable by the Company) shall forthwith become due and payable by Holdings, in its capacity as a guarantor, for purposes of such Section 6.01.
Remedies.
SECTION 6.09. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum liability of Holdings in its capacity as a guarantor under this Article VI shall in no event exceed the amount which can be guaranteed by Holdings under applicable federal and state laws relating to the insolvency of debtors. Holdings agrees that the Obligations may at any time and from time to time exceed the amount of the liability of Holdings hereunder without impairing the guarantee contained in this Article VI or affecting the rights and remedies of the Payee hereunder.
Maximum Liability.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
The undersigned, MEAD JOHNSON & COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, (such corporation, together with its successors and assigns, herein called the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of E.R. SQUIBB & SONS, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (such company, together with its successors and assigns, the ""), the outstanding part of the principal amount set forth above on February 17, 2016 with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance thereof at the rate per annum equal to 6.43% from the date hereof, payable semiannually, on each Interest Payment Date (as defined in the Terms referred to below), until the principal amount hereof shall have been paid in full and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to the Default Rate (as defined in the Terms referred to below) on any overdue amount of principal of or interest on this fixed rate note due 2016 (the ""), payable on demand.
Company
Payee
Note
The Note is subject to the terms set forth in Exhibit A hereto (the ""), including Article I thereof, which sets forth certain defined terms used in the Note, all of which are considered a part of the Note.
Terms
1.
Interest
As provided in the Terms, interest shall accrue on the outstanding principal amount of the Note from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the earlier of the last day of such Interest Period and the day on which the Note is repaid or prepaid in full.
2.
Method of Payment
The Company will pay principal of and interest on the Note by means of wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Payee, as set forth in the Terms. The Company will pay principal and interest in Dollars.
3.
Ranking
The obligations under the Note will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank with all existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
pari passu
4.
Amortization
The Note is not subject to amortization. The Company shall pay to the Payee principal amount of the Note on the Maturity Date.
5.
Optional Prepayment
As set forth in the Terms, the Company shall have the right, at its option, at any time and from time to time to prepay the Note, in whole or in part, at face value of the outstanding principal amount and all interest accrued on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
6.
Notice of Prepayment
The Payee shall be given prior written or telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by written or telecopy notice) at least five Business Days before the prepayment, as contemplated in the Terms.
7.
Guarantee
The payment by the Company of the principal of and interest on the Note is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by Holdings as provided it, and subject to, the Terms.
8.
Covenants
Holdings and the Company agree to comply with the covenants, as set forth in the Terms, so long as any amount of principal of or interest on the Note or any expenses or other amounts payable under the Note shall be unpaid.
9.
Defaults and Remedies
If an Event of Default as set forth in the Terms occurs and is continuing, the Payee may declare all or any part of the outstanding principal amount of the Note to be due and payable immediately in the manner, at the price and with the effect provided in the Terms. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which will result in the Note being due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
10.
Transferability of the Note
The Payee may transfer all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under the Note (including the principal amount of and interest on the Note at the time owing to it) without consent of the Company only to an Affiliate of the Payee. A transferee of the Note (or a portion of the Note) shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest transferred, have the rights and obligations of the Payee under the Note.
Upon surrender of the Note at the principal executive office of the Company for transfer or exchange, the Company shall execute and deliver one or more new notes in exchange therefor, payable to such Person as the Payee may request, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such new note shall be substantially in the form of the Note. Each such new note shall be dated and bear interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered Note or dated the date of the surrendered Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.
 
11.
Amendments; Successors and Assigns
Neither the Note nor any term hereof may be amended or waived orally or in writing, except that any term of the Note may be amended and the observance of any term of the Note may be waived with the written consent of the Company and the Payee. The provisions of the Note shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Payee and its successors and assigns. The Company's successors and assigns shall include a receiver, trustee or debtor-in-possession of or for the Company.
12.
No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Note or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting the Note, the Payee waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Note.
13.
Waiver of Certain Defenses by the Company
The Company's obligations under the Note are absolute and unconditional and shall not be subject to any defense, setoff or counterclaim that may at any time be available to or be asserted by the Company. The Company hereby waives, and agrees not to assert, any right to offset or interpose as a defense or counterclaim any claim against the Payee against its obligations under the Note. Demand, diligence, presentment, protest and notice of non-payment and protest are hereby waived by the Company.
14.
GOVERNING LAW
THE NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
15.
Jurisdiction
The Company and Holdings hereby submit to the exclusive personal jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the federal courts of the United States sitting in New York County, and any appellate court from any such state or federal court.
16.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE NOTE OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS
 
REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO EXECUTE THE NOTE BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS PARAGRAPH.
17.
Severability
Any provision of the Note held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. The parties hereto shall use their best efforts to replace the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable with a provision that the parties reasonably believe to be valid, legal and enforceable and which has a substantially identical economic and legal effect as the provision that was held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Note to be duly executed.
 
 
Acknowledged and agreed by:
 
 
Exhibit A
The Company, the Payee and Holdings agree that the following Terms shall apply to the Note. Any reference to the Note shall also constitute a reference to these Terms.
SECTION 1.01. As used in the Note, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"" shall mean, when used with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" shall mean any day (other than a day which is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of New York) on which banks are open for business in New York City.
Business Day
"" of any Person shall mean the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of the Note, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" shall mean any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following: (a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to Holdings or one of its Subsidiaries; (b) the consummation of any transaction (including any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, or primary or secondary sale of stock) the result of which is that the Principal Shareholder ceases to be the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of Holdings, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (c) the first day on which the majority of the members of the board of directors of Holdings cease to be Continuing Directors; or (d) Holdings ceasing to own, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, 100% of the Capital Stock in the Company.
"Change in Control"
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph of the Note.
Company
"" shall mean, with respect to the Holdings, the total amount of its assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting (i) all current liabilities (excluding the amount of those which are by their terms extendable or renewable at the option of the obligor to a date more than 12 months after the date as of which the amount is being determined) and (ii) all goodwill, tradenames, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangible assets, all as set forth on the most recent balance sheet of Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries and determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" shall mean, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of Holdings who: (a) was a member of such board of directors on the date of the Note; or (b) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination or election.
Continuing Director
"" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. The terms "" and "" shall have correlative meanings.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" of any Person shall mean (i) all obligations represented by notes, bonds, debentures or similar evidences of indebtedness; (ii) all indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services other than, in the case of any such deferred purchase price, on normal trade terms; (iii) all rental obligations as lessee under leases which shall have been or should be recorded as Capital Lease Obligations; (iv) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (v) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit, surety bonds or similar arrangements; (vi) the liquidation value of all preferred Capital Stock of such Person which is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof or which may become (by scheduled or mandatory redemption) due within one year of the final Maturity Date; (vii) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vi) above; and (viii) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vii) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by the applicable Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation. The Debt of any Person shall include Debt of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefore as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Debt expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Debt
 
"" shall mean any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 2.01(c).
Default Rate
"" or "" shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Article V.
Event of Default
"" shall mean Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" shall mean Debt of Holdings or a Subsidiary owning Restricted Property maturing by its terms more than one year after its creation and Debt classified as long-term debt under GAAP and, in the case of Funded Debt of Holdings, ranking at least with the Note.
Funded Debt
pari passu
"" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" shall mean the government of any nation, including the United States of America, or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") shall mean any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation, or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Debt or obligation; provided, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
 
"" shall mean Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, a Delaware corporation.
Holdings
"" shall mean, with respect to the Note, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to the Note.
Interest Payment Date
"" shall mean the period commencing on the date of the Note or on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period applicable to the Note, as the case may be, and ending on the earliest of (a) the next succeeding March 1 or September 1 and (b) the Maturity Date; that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day; and (ii) the first Interest Period after the date of the Note will end on September 1, 2009.
Interest Period
provided
"" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest.
Lien
"" shall mean February 17, 2016.
Maturity Date
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph hereof.
Note
"" shall mean (a) the due and punctual payment of (i) the principal of and interest (including interest accruing during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) on the Note, when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise, and (ii) of all other monetary obligations under the Note, including obligations to pay fees, indemnification obligations and other obligations, whether primary, secondary, direct, contingent, fixed or otherwise, of the Company to the Payee (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding), and (b) the due and punctual performance of all covenants, agreements, obligations and liabilities of the Company or any Subsidiary under or pursuant to the Note (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding).
Obligations
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph of the Note.
Payee
"" shall mean any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation, and its Affiliates.
"Principal Shareholder"
 
"" shall mean (i) any manufacturing facility (or portion thereof) owned or leased by Holdings or any Subsidiary and located within the continental United States of America which, in the opinion of the board of directors of Holdings, is of material importance to the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, but no such manufacturing facility (or portion thereof) shall be deemed of material importance if its gross book value (before deducting accumulated depreciation) is less than 2% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, and (ii) any shares of Capital Stock or indebtedness of any Subsidiary owning any such manufacturing facility. As used in this definition, "manufacturing facility" means property, plant and equipment used for actual manufacturing and for activities directly related to manufacturing, and it excludes sales offices, research facilities and facilities used only for warehousing, distribution or general administration.
Restricted Property
"" shall mean the $410,000,000 Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of February 17, 2009, among Holdings, the Company, the borrowing subsidiaries thereto, the subsidiary guarantors thereto, if any, the lenders thereto, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as Administrative Agent.
Revolving Credit Facility
"" shall mean any arrangement with any Person pursuant to which Holdings or any Subsidiary leases any Restricted Property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by Holdings or the Subsidiary to such Person, other than (i) temporary leases for a term, including renewals at the option of the lessee, of not more than three years, (ii) leases between Holdings and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries, (iii) leases of Restricted Property executed by the time of, or within 12 months after the latest of, the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement, or the commencement of commercial operation, of such Restricted Property, and (iv) arrangements pursuant to any provision of law with an effect similar to that under former Section 168(f)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean a corporation the majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by Holdings.
Subsidiary
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the Note.
Terms
"" shall mean, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments with respect to the term of the lease remaining on the date as of which the amount is being determined, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease, discounted at the market interest rate for the Debt of the Company (as determined in good faith by the board of directors of the Company).
Value
 
"" shall mean, as applied to the stock of any corporation, stock of any class or classes (however designated) having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors (or other governing body) of such corporation other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
SECTION 1.02. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (and, in case of the Payee, its successors, assigns and transferees of the Note), (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to the Note (including the Terms) in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references in the Terms to Articles, Sections, Paragraphs, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles, Sections and Paragraphs of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Terms and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally.
SECTION 1.03. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if the Company notifies the Payee that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Payee requests an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision shall have been amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
SECTION 2.01. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) below, the Note shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount at the rate per annum equal to 6.43%, payable on the Interest Payment Dates, except as otherwise provided herein. All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest.
 
(b) Interest shall accrue from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the earlier of the last day of such Interest Period and the day on which the Note is repaid or prepaid in full.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on the Note or any fee or other amount payable by the Company hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to 2% per annum plus the rate otherwise applicable to the Note (the "").
Default Rate
(d) Accrued interest on the outstanding principal amount of the Note shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date and upon repayment or prepayment of the principal amount of the Note in full; provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to Section 2.01(c) shall be payable on demand and (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any part of the outstanding principal amount of the Note, accrued interest on such principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Company shall have the right at any time and from time to time, at its option, to prepay, in whole or in part, the outstanding principal amount of the Note and the amount of all interest accrued on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment, upon at least five Business Days' prior written or telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by written or telecopy notice) to the Payee before 12:00 (noon), New York City time; , , that each partial prepayment shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000.
Optional Prepayment of the principal amount of the Note.
provided
however
(b) Each notice of prepayment shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of the Note (or portion of the Note) to be prepaid, shall be irrevocable and shall commit the Company to prepay the Note by the amount stated herein on the date stated herein. All prepayments under this Section 2.02 shall be without premium or penalty. All prepayments under this Section shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Company shall pay to the Payee, on the Maturity Date, the outstanding principal amount of the Note, together with accrued and unpaid interest on such principal amount to but excluding the date of such payment.
Repayment of the principal amount of the Note.
(b) Any prepayment, voluntary or mandatory, or retirement of the principal amount of the Note by the Company shall reduce the outstanding principal amount of the Note. No interest shall accrue on the principal amount that has been repaid (prepaid) from and including the day of the repayment (prepayment).
 
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Payee shall, and is hereby authorized by the Company to, endorse on the schedule attached to the Note delivered to the Payee (or on a continuation of such schedule attached to the Note and made a part hereof), or otherwise to record in the Payee's internal records, an appropriate notation evidencing the date and amount of the Note, each payment and prepayment of principal of the Note, each payment of interest on the Note and the other information provided for on such schedule; , , that the failure of the Payee to make such a notation or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Company to repay the Note in accordance with the terms hereof.
Maintenance of Accounts.
provided
however
(b) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (a) above shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations therein recorded; , , that the failure of the Payee to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligations of the Company to repay the Note in accordance with its terms.
provided
however
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Company shall make each payment (including principal of or interest on any Note and other amounts) under the Note not later than 12:00 (noon), New York City time, on the date when due in immediately available funds in Dollars, without setoff, defense or counterclaim. Each payment of principal of or interest on the Note shall be made to the Payee of the Note by means of wire transfer for the account of the Payee to account number 777168345, Credit Name: ER & Squibb & Sons, LLC, ABA 021000021 at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (or to such other account as shall have been specified by a holder of the Note in one or more notices delivered to the Company).
Payments.
(b) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, any payment of principal of or interest on the Note that is due on a date other than a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day without including the additional days elapsed in the computation of the interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day (it being understood that such excluded interest shall be payable on the next following Interest Payment Date); that if the Maturity Date of the Note or other date, when all the outstanding principal amount of the Note is repaid in full, is a date other than a Business Day, then and in such event, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, but shall include the additional days elapsed in the computation of interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day.
provided
Holdings and the Company covenant and agree with the Payee that so long as the Note shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on the Note or any fees or any other amounts payable hereunder shall be unpaid, and unless the Payee shall otherwise consent in writing:
SECTION 3.01. Subject to Article IV, Holdings and the Company will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its legal existence.
Existence.
 
SECTION 3.02. Holdings and the Company shall not create, assume or suffer to exist and will not permit any of the Subsidiaries to create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any Restricted Property to secure any Debt of Holdings, any Subsidiary or any other Person, without making effective provision whereby all then outstanding principal amounts of and interest on the Note shall be secured by such Lien equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Debt for so long as such Debt shall be so secured, except that the foregoing shall not prevent Holdings or any Subsidiary from creating, assuming or suffering to exist any of the following Liens:
Liens.
(a) Liens existing on the date hereof;
(b) any Lien existing on property owned or leased by any Person at the time it becomes a Subsidiary;
(c) any Lien existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof by Holdings or any Subsidiary;
(d) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the acquisition of any Restricted Property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof and any Lien to the extent that it secures Debt which is in excess of such purchase price and for the payment of which recourse may be had only against such Restricted Property;
(e) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the completion of the construction, alteration, repair or improvement of any Restricted Property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost thereof and any Lien to the extent that it secures Debt which is in excess of such cost and for the payment of which recourse may be had only against such Restricted Property;
(f) any Liens securing Debt of a Subsidiary owing to Holdings or to another Subsidiary;
(g) any Liens securing industrial development, pollution control or similar revenue bonds;
(h) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above, so long as the principal amount of the Debt secured thereby does not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement (except that, where an additional principal amount of Debt is incurred to provide funds for the completion of a specific project, the additional principal amount, and any related financing costs, may be secured by the Lien as well) and such Lien is limited to the same property subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (and improvements on such property); and
 
(i) any Lien not permitted by clauses (a) through (h) above securing Debt which, together with the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all other Debt of Holdings and the Subsidiaries owning Restricted Property which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions and the aggregate Value of existing Sale and Leaseback Transactions which would be subject to the restrictions of Section 3.04 but for this clause (i), does not at any time exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
SECTION 3.03. Holdings and the Company shall not enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, or permit any Subsidiary owning Restricted Property so to do, unless either:
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
(a) Holdings, the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Debt, in a principal amount at least equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, which is secured by Liens on the property to be leased without equally and ratably securing the obligations under the Note without violating Section 3.03, or
(b) during the six months immediately following the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is applied to (A) the acquisition of Restricted Property or (B) optional prepayment of the Note or the voluntary retirement of Funded Debt (whether by redemption, defeasance, repurchase, or otherwise).
SECTION 3.04. Holdings and the Company shall not permit any Subsidiary of Holdings (other than the Company) to create, incur, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist, as a subsidiary borrower or as a guarantor, any obligations or any indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility or any Debt, which proceeds were used to repay or refinance the Revolving Credit Facility, unless such Subsidiary irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, to the Payee, its successors and permitted transferees of the Note the due and punctual payment and performance of the Obligations (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by amortization, by optional prepayment or otherwise), on the same terms and conditions as those set forth in Article VI for Holdings' guarantee.
Maintenance of Structural Parity.
Holdings shall not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation, and Holdings and the Company shall not convey or transfer, or permit any Subsidiary to convey or transfer the assets of Holdings and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
(a) the corporation formed by such consolidation or into which Holdings is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the assets of Holdings and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, substantially as an entirety shall be organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State of the United States of America or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by a written
 
instrument, in form satisfactory to the Payee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Note and the performance of every covenant of the Note on the part of Holdings and the Company to be performed or observed;
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default and no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(c) the Company shall have delivered to the Payee, upon its reasonable request, a certificate of an officer of the Company and an opinion of the counsel for the Company each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and the written instrument on assumption of duties, executed pursuant to paragraph (a), with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
In the event of any such permitted conveyance or transfer, Holdings or the Company as the predecessor may be dissolved, wound up or liquidated at any time thereafter.
In case of the occurrence of any of the following events (each an ""):
Event of Default
(a) default shall be made in the payment of any principal of the Note when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Maturity Date or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise;
(b) default shall be made in the payment of any interest on the Note or any fee or any other amount due under the Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days;
(c) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained herein (other than the covenant, condition or agreement a default in the performance of which is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with) by Holdings or the Company and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 90 days after notice specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder is given by the Payee to the Company;
(d) an order for relief against Holdings or the Company under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law shall be entered by a court having jurisdiction in the premises or a decree or order shall be entered by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging Holdings or the Company a bankrupt or insolvent under any other applicable federal or state law, or a decree or order shall be entered
 
approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of Holdings or the Company under Title 11 of the United States Code or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of Holdings or the Company or of any substantial part of their property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of their affairs, and any such decree or order shall continue unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(e) Holdings or the Company shall consent to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of Holdings or the Company or of any substantial part of their property, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or shall take a corporate action in furtherance of any such action;
(f) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(g) the guarantee in Article VI shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by the Company or Holdings not to be, a valid and binding obligation on the part of Holdings;
then, (i) in any event with respect to the Company described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (f) or (g) above, at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Payee may, by notice to the Company, declare the Note to be forthwith due and payable in whole or in part, whereupon the principal of the Note so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company accrued hereunder shall become forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company, anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding; and exercise all other remedies available to it under the Note or otherwise; and (ii) in any event with respect to Holdings or the Company described in paragraph (d) or (e) above, the principal of the Note then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company, accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company, anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding. If, at any time before the Maturity Date, the Note shall have been accelerated pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence, and the Payee shall not have obtained a judgment or decree for the payment of amounts due as a result of such acceleration, the Payee that shall have accelerated the Note may rescind and annul such acceleration and its consequences if (x) the Company shall have paid all principal, interest and other amounts due hereunder or under the Note (other than by reason of such acceleration) and (y) all other Events of Default shall have been cured or waived. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right of the Payee or any of them consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 6.01. Holdings hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, to the Payee, its successors and permitted transferees of the Note the due and punctual payment and performance of the Obligations (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by optional prepayment or otherwise), strictly in accordance with the terms thereof. Holdings further agrees that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any Obligation. Holdings waives promptness, diligence, presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Payee or the Company of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its guarantee and notice of protest for nonpayment.
Guarantee.
SECTION 6.02. Holdings further agrees that its guarantee hereunder constitutes a guarantee of payment when due (whether or not any bankruptcy or similar proceeding shall have stayed the accrual of collection of any of the Obligations or operated as a discharge thereof) and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by the Payee to any security held for the payment of the Obligations or to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of the Payee in favor of the Company, any other party, or any other Person. Holdings agrees that its guarantee hereunder is continuing in nature and applies to all Obligations, whether currently existing or hereafter incurred.
Guarantee of Payment; Continuing Guarantee.
SECTION 6.03. (a) Except for termination of Holdings' obligations hereunder as expressly provided in Section 6.04, the obligations of Holdings hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional and not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, including any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense or set-off, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of the Obligations, or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of Holdings hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by (i) the failure of the Payee to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy under the provisions of the Note or otherwise; (ii) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or any release from any of the terms or provisions of the Note or any other agreement; (iii) any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations; (iv) any change in the corporate existence or structure of the Company; (v) any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction or any event affecting any term of any Obligation; or (vi) any other act or omission that may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of Holdings or otherwise operate as a discharge of Holdings as a matter of law or equity (other than the indefeasible payment in full in cash of all the Obligations).
No Limitations.
 
(b) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Holdings waives any defense based on or arising out of any defense of the Company or the unenforceability of the Obligations or any part thereof from any cause, or the cessation from any cause of the liability of the Company, other than the indefeasible payment in full in cash of all the Obligations. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Holdings waives any defense arising out of any such election even though such election operates, pursuant to applicable law, to impair or to extinguish any right of reimbursement or subrogation or other right or remedy of Holdings against the Company.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of Holdings under this Article VI shall terminate when all the Obligations have been paid in full. The obligations of Holdings under this Article VI shall continue to be effective or be automatically reinstated, as the case may be, if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of the Company in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by the Payee, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and Holdings agrees that it will indemnify the Payee on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including fees of counsel) incurred by the Payee in connection with such rescission or restoration.
Termination; Reinstatement.
SECTION 6.05. In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right that the Payee has at law or in equity against Holdings by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Company to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, Holdings hereby promises to and will forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the Payee in cash the amount of such unpaid Obligation.
Agreement to Pay.
SECTION 6.06. In addition to all such rights of indemnity and subrogation as the Holdings may have under applicable law, the Company agrees that in the event a payment in respect of any Obligation shall be made by Holdings under this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Holdings for the full amount of such payment and Holdings shall be subrogated to the rights of the Payee to the extent of such payment. All rights of Holdings under this Section and all other rights of Holdings of indemnity, contribution or subrogation under applicable law or otherwise shall be fully subordinated and junior in right of payment to the indefeasible payment in full in cash of the Obligations. No failure on the part of the Company to make the payments required by this Section shall in any respect limit the obligations and liabilities of Holdings with respect to its obligations hereunder, and Holdings shall remain liable for the full amount of the obligations of Holdings hereunder.
Subrogation.
SECTION 6.07. Holdings (a) assumes all responsibility for being and keeping itself informed of the Company's financial condition and assets, and of all other circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of the Obligations and the nature, scope and extent of the risks that Holdings assumes and incurs hereunder, and (b) agrees that the Payee will have no duty to advise Holdings of information known to it regarding such circumstances or risks.
Information.
 
SECTION 6.08. Holdings agrees that the obligations of the Company under the Note may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Article V hereof (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Article V hereof) for purposes of Section 6.01 hereof notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing such obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against the Company and that, in the event of such declaration (or such obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), such obligations (whether or not due and payable by the Company) shall forthwith become due and payable by Holdings, in its capacity as a guarantor, for purposes of such Section 6.01.
Remedies.
SECTION 6.09. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum liability of Holdings in its capacity as a guarantor under this Article VI shall in no event exceed the amount which can be guaranteed by Holdings under applicable federal and state laws relating to the insolvency of debtors. Holdings agrees that the Obligations may at any time and from time to time exceed the amount of the liability of Holdings hereunder without impairing the guarantee contained in this Article VI or affecting the rights and remedies of the Payee hereunder.
Maximum Liability.
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
The undersigned, MEAD JOHNSON & COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, (such corporation, together with its successors and assigns, herein called the ""), hereby promises to pay to the order of E.R. SQUIBB & SONS, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (such company, together with its successors and assigns, the ""), the outstanding part of the principal amount set forth above on February 17, 2019 with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance thereof at the rate per annum equal to 6.91% from the date hereof, payable semiannually, on each Interest Payment Date (as defined in the Terms referred to below), until the principal amount hereof shall have been paid in full and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to the Default Rate (as defined in the Terms referred to below) on any overdue amount of principal of or interest on this fixed rate note due 2019 (the ""), payable on demand.
Company
Payee
Note
The Note is subject to the terms set forth in Exhibit A hereto (the ""), including Article I thereof, which sets forth certain defined terms used in the Note, all of which are considered a part of the Note.
Terms
1.
Interest
As provided in the Terms, interest shall accrue on the outstanding principal amount of the Note from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the earlier of the last day of such Interest Period and the day on which the Note is repaid or prepaid in full.
2.
Method of Payment
The Company will pay principal of and interest on the Note by means of wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Payee, as set forth in the Terms. The Company will pay principal and interest in Dollars.
3.
Ranking
The obligations under the Note will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank with all existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company.
pari passu
4.
Amortization
The Note is not subject to amortization. The Company shall pay to the Payee principal amount of the Note on the Maturity Date.
5.
Optional Prepayment
As set forth in the Terms, the Company shall have the right, at its option, at any time and from time to time to prepay the Note, in whole or in part, at face value of the outstanding principal amount and all interest accrued on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
6.
Notice of Prepayment
The Payee shall be given prior written or telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by written or telecopy notice) at least five Business Days before the prepayment, as contemplated in the Terms.
7.
Guarantee
The payment by the Company of the principal of and interest on the Note is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by Holdings as provided it, and subject to, the Terms.
8.
Covenants
Holdings and the Company agree to comply with the covenants, as set forth in the Terms, so long as any amount of principal of or interest on the Note or any expenses or other amounts payable under the Note shall be unpaid.
9.
Defaults and Remedies
If an Event of Default as set forth in the Terms occurs and is continuing, the Payee may declare all or any part of the outstanding principal amount of the Note to be due and payable immediately in the manner, at the price and with the effect provided in the Terms. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which will result in the Note being due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
10.
Transferability of the Note
The Payee may transfer all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under the Note (including the principal amount of and interest on the Note at the time owing to it) without consent of the Company only to an Affiliate of the Payee. A transferee of the Note (or a portion of the Note) shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest transferred, have the rights and obligations of the Payee under the Note.
Upon surrender of the Note at the principal executive office of the Company for transfer or exchange, the Company shall execute and deliver one or more new notes in exchange therefor, payable to such Person as the Payee may request, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such new note shall be substantially in the form of the Note. Each such new note shall be dated and bear interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered Note or dated the date of the surrendered Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.
 
11.
Amendments; Successors and Assigns
Neither the Note nor any term hereof may be amended or waived orally or in writing, except that any term of the Note may be amended and the observance of any term of the Note may be waived with the written consent of the Company and the Payee. The provisions of the Note shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of the Payee and its successors and assigns. The Company's successors and assigns shall include a receiver, trustee or debtor-in-possession of or for the Company.
12.
No Recourse Against Others
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Note or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting the Note, the Payee waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Note.
13.
Waiver of Certain Defenses by the Company
The Company's obligations under the Note are absolute and unconditional and shall not be subject to any defense, setoff or counterclaim that may at any time be available to or be asserted by the Company. The Company hereby waives, and agrees not to assert, any right to offset or interpose as a defense or counterclaim any claim against the Payee against its obligations under the Note. Demand, diligence, presentment, protest and notice of non-payment and protest are hereby waived by the Company.
14.
GOVERNING LAW
THE NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
15.
Jurisdiction
The Company and Holdings hereby submit to the exclusive personal jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the federal courts of the United States sitting in New York County, and any appellate court from any such state or federal court.
16.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE NOTE OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS
 
REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO EXECUTE THE NOTE BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS PARAGRAPH.
17.
Severability
Any provision of the Note held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. The parties hereto shall use their best efforts to replace the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable with a provision that the parties reasonably believe to be valid, legal and enforceable and which has a substantially identical economic and legal effect as the provision that was held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the Note to be duly executed.
 
 
Acknowledged and agreed by:
 
 
Exhibit A
The Company, the Payee and Holdings agree that the following Terms shall apply to the Note. Any reference to the Note shall also constitute a reference to these Terms.
SECTION 1.01. As used in the Note, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"" shall mean, when used with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" shall mean any day (other than a day which is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of New York) on which banks are open for business in New York City.
Business Day
"" of any Person shall mean the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP and, for the purposes of the Note, the amount of such obligations at any time shall be the capitalized amount thereof at such time determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" shall mean any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants, rights or options to purchase any of the foregoing.
Capital Stock
shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following: (a) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of Holdings and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to Holdings or one of its Subsidiaries; (b) the consummation of any transaction (including any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, or primary or secondary sale of stock) the result of which is that the Principal Shareholder ceases to be the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of Holdings, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (c) the first day on which the majority of the members of the board of directors of Holdings cease to be Continuing Directors; or (d) Holdings ceasing to own, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, 100% of the Capital Stock in the Company.
"Change in Control"
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph of the Note.
Company
"" shall mean, with respect to the Holdings, the total amount of its assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting (i) all current liabilities (excluding the amount of those which are by their terms extendable or renewable at the option of the obligor to a date more than 12 months after the date as of which the amount is being determined) and (ii) all goodwill, tradenames, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangible assets, all as set forth on the most recent balance sheet of Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries and determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" shall mean, as of any date of determination, any member of the board of directors of Holdings who: (a) was a member of such board of directors on the date of the Note; or (b) was nominated for election or elected to such board of directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such board of directors at the time of such nomination or election.
Continuing Director
"" shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. The terms "" and "" shall have correlative meanings.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" of any Person shall mean (i) all obligations represented by notes, bonds, debentures or similar evidences of indebtedness; (ii) all indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services other than, in the case of any such deferred purchase price, on normal trade terms; (iii) all rental obligations as lessee under leases which shall have been or should be recorded as Capital Lease Obligations; (iv) all indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (v) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, as an account party or applicant under or in respect of acceptances, letters of credit, surety bonds or similar arrangements; (vi) the liquidation value of all preferred Capital Stock of such Person which is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof or which may become (by scheduled or mandatory redemption) due within one year of the final Maturity Date; (vii) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vi) above; and (viii) all obligations of the kind referred to in clauses (i) through (vii) above secured by (or for which the holder of such obligation has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including accounts and contract rights) owned by the applicable Person, whether or not such Person has assumed or become liable for the payment of such obligation. The Debt of any Person shall include Debt of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefore as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Debt expressly provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Debt
 
"" shall mean any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Section 2.01(c).
Default Rate
"" or "" shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in Article V.
Event of Default
"" shall mean Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" shall mean Debt of Holdings or a Subsidiary owning Restricted Property maturing by its terms more than one year after its creation and Debt classified as long-term debt under GAAP and, in the case of Funded Debt of Holdings, ranking at least with the Note.
Funded Debt
pari
passu
"" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" shall mean the government of any nation, including the United States of America, or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") shall mean any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation, or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Debt or obligation; provided, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
 
"" shall mean Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, a Delaware corporation.
Holdings
"" shall mean, with respect to the Note, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to the Note.
Interest Payment Date
"" shall mean the period commencing on the date of the Note or on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period applicable to the Note, as the case may be, and ending on the earliest of (a) the next succeeding March 1 or September 1 and (b) the Maturity Date; that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day; and (ii) the first Interest Period after the date of the Note will end on September 1, 2009.
Interest Period
provided
"" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest.
Lien
"" shall mean February 17, 2019.
Maturity Date
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph hereof.
Note
"" shall mean (a) the due and punctual payment of (i) the principal of and interest (including interest accruing during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) on the Note, when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise, and (ii) of all other monetary obligations under the Note, including obligations to pay fees, indemnification obligations and other obligations, whether primary, secondary, direct, contingent, fixed or otherwise, of the Company to the Payee (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding), and (b) the due and punctual performance of all covenants, agreements, obligations and liabilities of the Company or any Subsidiary under or pursuant to the Note (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding).
Obligations
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the first paragraph of the Note.
Payee
"" shall mean any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
shall mean Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation, and its Affiliates.
"Principal Shareholder"
 
"" shall mean (i) any manufacturing facility (or portion thereof) owned or leased by Holdings or any Subsidiary and located within the continental United States of America which, in the opinion of the board of directors of Holdings, is of material importance to the business of Holdings and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, but no such manufacturing facility (or portion thereof) shall be deemed of material importance if its gross book value (before deducting accumulated depreciation) is less than 2% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, and (ii) any shares of Capital Stock or indebtedness of any Subsidiary owning any such manufacturing facility. As used in this definition, "manufacturing facility" means property, plant and equipment used for actual manufacturing and for activities directly related to manufacturing, and it excludes sales offices, research facilities and facilities used only for warehousing, distribution or general administration.
Restricted Property
"" shall mean the $410,000,000 Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of February 17, 2009, among Holdings, the Company, the borrowing subsidiaries thereto, the subsidiary guarantors thereto, if any, the lenders thereto, Bank of America, N.A., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Royal bank of Canada and UBS Loan Finance LLC, as Senior Managing Agents, Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, as Administrative Agent.
Revolving Credit Facility
"" shall mean any arrangement with any Person pursuant to which Holdings or any Subsidiary leases any Restricted Property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by Holdings or the Subsidiary to such Person, other than (i) temporary leases for a term, including renewals at the option of the lessee, of not more than three years, (ii) leases between Holdings and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries, (iii) leases of Restricted Property executed by the time of, or within 12 months after the latest of, the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement, or the commencement of commercial operation, of such Restricted Property, and (iv) arrangements pursuant to any provision of law with an effect similar to that under former Section 168(f)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
"" shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean a corporation the majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by Holdings.
Subsidiary
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the Note.
Terms
"" shall mean, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments with respect to the term of the lease remaining on the date as of which the amount is being determined, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease, discounted at the market interest rate for the Debt of the Company (as determined in good faith by the board of directors of the Company).
Value
 
"" shall mean, as applied to the stock of any corporation, stock of any class or classes (however designated) having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors (or other governing body) of such corporation other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
SECTION 1.02. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (and, in case of the Payee, its successors, assigns and transferees of the Note), (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to the Note (including the Terms) in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references in the Terms to Articles, Sections, Paragraphs, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles, Sections and Paragraphs of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Terms and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally.
SECTION 1.03. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if the Company notifies the Payee that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Payee requests an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision shall have been amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
SECTION 2.01. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) below, the Note shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount at the rate per annum equal to 6.91%, payable on the Interest Payment Dates, except as otherwise provided herein. All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest.
 
(b) Interest shall accrue from and including the first day of an Interest Period to but excluding the earlier of the last day of such Interest Period and the day on which the Note is repaid or prepaid in full.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on the Note or any fee or other amount payable by the Company hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to 2% per annum plus the rate otherwise applicable to the Note (the "").
Default Rate
(d) Accrued interest on the outstanding principal amount of the Note shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date and upon repayment or prepayment of the principal amount of the Note in full; provided that (i) interest accrued pursuant to Section 2.01(c) shall be payable on demand and (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any part of the outstanding principal amount of the Note, accrued interest on such principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Company shall have the right at any time and from time to time, at its option, to prepay, in whole or in part, the outstanding principal amount of the Note and the amount of all interest accrued on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment, upon at least five Business Days' prior written or telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by written or telecopy notice) to the Payee before 12:00 (noon), New York City time; , , that each partial prepayment shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000.
Optional Prepayment of the principal amount of the Note.
provided
however
(b) Each notice of prepayment shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of the Note (or portion of the Note) to be prepaid, shall be irrevocable and shall commit the Company to prepay the Note by the amount stated herein on the date stated herein. All prepayments under this Section 2.02 shall be without premium or penalty. All prepayments under this Section shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Company shall pay to the Payee, on the Maturity Date, the outstanding principal amount of the Note, together with accrued and unpaid interest on such principal amount to but excluding the date of such payment.
Repayment of the principal amount of the Note.
(b) Any prepayment, voluntary or mandatory, or retirement of the principal amount of the Note by the Company shall reduce the outstanding principal amount of the Note. No interest shall accrue on the principal amount that has been repaid (prepaid) from and including the day of the repayment (prepayment).
 
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Payee shall, and is hereby authorized by the Company to, endorse on the schedule attached to the Note delivered to the Payee (or on a continuation of such schedule attached to the Note and made a part hereof), or otherwise to record in the Payee's internal records, an appropriate notation evidencing the date and amount of the Note, each payment and prepayment of principal of the Note, each payment of interest on the Note and the other information provided for on such schedule; , , that the failure of the Payee to make such a notation or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Company to repay the Note in accordance with the terms hereof.
Maintenance of Accounts.
provided
however
(b) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (a) above shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations therein recorded; , , that the failure of the Payee to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligations of the Company to repay the Note in accordance with its terms.
provided
however
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Company shall make each payment (including principal of or interest on any Note and other amounts) under the Note not later than 12:00 (noon), New York City time, on the date when due in immediately available funds in Dollars, without setoff, defense or counterclaim. Each payment of principal of or interest on the Note shall be made to the Payee of the Note by means of wire transfer for the account of the Payee to account number 777168345, Credit Name: ER & Squibb & Sons, LLC, ABA 021000021 at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (or to such other account as shall have been specified by a holder of the Note in one or more notices delivered to the Company).
Payments.
(b) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, any payment of principal of or interest on the Note that is due on a date other than a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day without including the additional days elapsed in the computation of the interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day (it being understood that such excluded interest shall be payable on the next following Interest Payment Date); that if the Maturity Date of the Note or other date, when all the outstanding principal amount of the Note is repaid in full, is a date other than a Business Day, then and in such event, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, but shall include the additional days elapsed in the computation of interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day.
provided
Holdings and the Company covenant and agree with the Payee that so long as the Note shall remain in effect or the principal of or interest on the Note or any fees or any other amounts payable hereunder shall be unpaid, and unless the Payee shall otherwise consent in writing:
SECTION 3.01. Subject to Article IV, Holdings and the Company will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its legal existence.
Existence.
 
SECTION 3.02. Holdings and the Company shall not create, assume or suffer to exist and will not permit any of the Subsidiaries to create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any Restricted Property to secure any Debt of Holdings, any Subsidiary or any other Person, without making effective provision whereby all then outstanding principal amounts of and interest on the Note shall be secured by such Lien equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Debt for so long as such Debt shall be so secured, except that the foregoing shall not prevent Holdings or any Subsidiary from creating, assuming or suffering to exist any of the following Liens:
Liens.
(a) Liens existing on the date hereof;
(b) any Lien existing on property owned or leased by any Person at the time it becomes a Subsidiary;
(c) any Lien existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof by Holdings or any Subsidiary;
(d) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the acquisition of any Restricted Property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof and any Lien to the extent that it secures Debt which is in excess of such purchase price and for the payment of which recourse may be had only against such Restricted Property;
(e) any Lien to secure any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the completion of the construction, alteration, repair or improvement of any Restricted Property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost thereof and any Lien to the extent that it secures Debt which is in excess of such cost and for the payment of which recourse may be had only against such Restricted Property;
(f) any Liens securing Debt of a Subsidiary owing to Holdings or to another Subsidiary;
(g) any Liens securing industrial development, pollution control or similar revenue bonds;
(h) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above, so long as the principal amount of the Debt secured thereby does not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement (except that, where an additional principal amount of Debt is incurred to provide funds for the completion of a specific project, the additional principal amount, and any related financing costs, may be secured by the Lien as well) and such Lien is limited to the same property subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (and improvements on such property); and
 
(i) any Lien not permitted by clauses (a) through (h) above securing Debt which, together with the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all other Debt of Holdings and the Subsidiaries owning Restricted Property which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions and the aggregate Value of existing Sale and Leaseback Transactions which would be subject to the restrictions of Section 3.04 but for this clause (i), does not at any time exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
SECTION 3.03. Holdings and the Company shall not enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, or permit any Subsidiary owning Restricted Property so to do, unless either:
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
(a) Holdings, the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Debt, in a principal amount at least equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, which is secured by Liens on the property to be leased without equally and ratably securing the obligations under the Note without violating Section 3.03, or
(b) during the six months immediately following the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is applied to (A) the acquisition of Restricted Property or (B) optional prepayment of the Note or the voluntary retirement of Funded Debt (whether by redemption, defeasance, repurchase, or otherwise).
SECTION 3.04. Holdings and the Company shall not permit any Subsidiary of Holdings (other than the Company) to create, incur, assume, become liable in respect of or suffer to exist, as a subsidiary borrower or as a guarantor, any obligations or any indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility or any Debt, which proceeds were used to repay or refinance the Revolving Credit Facility, unless such Subsidiary irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, to the Payee, its successors and permitted transferees of the Note the due and punctual payment and performance of the Obligations (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by amortization, by optional prepayment or otherwise), on the same terms and conditions as those set forth in Article VI for Holdings' guarantee.
Maintenance of Structural Parity.
Holdings shall not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation, and Holdings and the Company shall not convey or transfer, or permit any Subsidiary to convey or transfer the assets of Holdings and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
(a) the corporation formed by such consolidation or into which Holdings is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the assets of Holdings and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, substantially as an entirety shall be organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State of the United States of America or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by a written
 
instrument, in form satisfactory to the Payee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Note and the performance of every covenant of the Note on the part of Holdings and the Company to be performed or observed;
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default and no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(c) the Company shall have delivered to the Payee, upon its reasonable request, a certificate of an officer of the Company and an opinion of the counsel for the Company each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and the written instrument on assumption of duties, executed pursuant to paragraph (a), with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
In the event of any such permitted conveyance or transfer, Holdings or the Company as the predecessor may be dissolved, wound up or liquidated at any time thereafter.
In case of the occurrence of any of the following events (each an ""):
Event of Default
(a) default shall be made in the payment of any principal of the Note when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Maturity Date or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise;
(b) default shall be made in the payment of any interest on the Note or any fee or any other amount due under the Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days;
(c) default shall be made in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained herein (other than the covenant, condition or agreement a default in the performance of which is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with) by Holdings or the Company and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 90 days after notice specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder is given by the Payee to the Company;
(d) an order for relief against Holdings or the Company under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law shall be entered by a court having jurisdiction in the premises or a decree or order shall be entered by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging Holdings or the Company a bankrupt or insolvent under any other applicable federal or state law, or a decree or order shall be entered
 
approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of Holdings or the Company under Title 11 of the United States Code or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of Holdings or the Company or of any substantial part of their property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of their affairs, and any such decree or order shall continue unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(e) Holdings or the Company shall consent to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, as now constituted or hereafter amended, or any other federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of Holdings or the Company or of any substantial part of their property, or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or shall take a corporate action in furtherance of any such action;
(f) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(g) the guarantee in Article VI shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by the Company or Holdings not to be, a valid and binding obligation on the part of Holdings;
then, (i) in any event with respect to the Company described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (f) or (g) above, at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Payee may, by notice to the Company, declare the Note to be forthwith due and payable in whole or in part, whereupon the principal of the Note so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company accrued hereunder shall become forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company, anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding; and exercise all other remedies available to it under the Note or otherwise; and (ii) in any event with respect to Holdings or the Company described in paragraph (d) or (e) above, the principal of the Note then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and any unpaid accrued fees and all other liabilities of the Company, accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company, anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding. If, at any time before the Maturity Date, the Note shall have been accelerated pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence, and the Payee shall not have obtained a judgment or decree for the payment of amounts due as a result of such acceleration, the Payee that shall have accelerated the Note may rescind and annul such acceleration and its consequences if (x) the Company shall have paid all principal, interest and other amounts due hereunder or under the Note (other than by reason of such acceleration) and (y) all other Events of Default shall have been cured or waived. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Event of Default or impair any right of the Payee or any of them consequent thereon.
 
SECTION 6.01. Holdings hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, to the Payee, its successors and permitted transferees of the Note the due and punctual payment and performance of the Obligations (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration, by optional prepayment or otherwise), strictly in accordance with the terms thereof. Holdings further agrees that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any Obligation. Holdings waives promptness, diligence, presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Payee or the Company of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its guarantee and notice of protest for nonpayment.
Guarantee.
SECTION 6.02. Holdings further agrees that its guarantee hereunder constitutes a guarantee of payment when due (whether or not any bankruptcy or similar proceeding shall have stayed the accrual of collection of any of the Obligations or operated as a discharge thereof) and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by the Payee to any security held for the payment of the Obligations or to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of the Payee in favor of the Company, any other party, or any other Person. Holdings agrees that its guarantee hereunder is continuing in nature and applies to all Obligations, whether currently existing or hereafter incurred.
Guarantee of Payment; Continuing Guarantee.
SECTION 6.03. (a) Except for termination of Holdings' obligations hereunder as expressly provided in Section 6.04, the obligations of Holdings hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional and not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, including any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense or set-off, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of the Obligations, or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of Holdings hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by (i) the failure of the Payee to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy under the provisions of the Note or otherwise; (ii) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or any release from any of the terms or provisions of the Note or any other agreement; (iii) any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations; (iv) any change in the corporate existence or structure of the Company; (v) any law, regulation, decree or order of any jurisdiction or any event affecting any term of any Obligation; or (vi) any other act or omission that may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of Holdings or otherwise operate as a discharge of Holdings as a matter of law or equity (other than the indefeasible payment in full in cash of all the Obligations).
No Limitations.
 
(b) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Holdings waives any defense based on or arising out of any defense of the Company or the unenforceability of the Obligations or any part thereof from any cause, or the cessation from any cause of the liability of the Company, other than the indefeasible payment in full in cash of all the Obligations. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Holdings waives any defense arising out of any such election even though such election operates, pursuant to applicable law, to impair or to extinguish any right of reimbursement or subrogation or other right or remedy of Holdings against the Company.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of Holdings under this Article VI shall terminate when all the Obligations have been paid in full. The obligations of Holdings under this Article VI shall continue to be effective or be automatically reinstated, as the case may be, if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of the Company in respect of the Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by the Payee, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and Holdings agrees that it will indemnify the Payee on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including fees of counsel) incurred by the Payee in connection with such rescission or restoration.
Termination; Reinstatement.
SECTION 6.05. In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right that the Payee has at law or in equity against Holdings by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Company to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, Holdings hereby promises to and will forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the Payee in cash the amount of such unpaid Obligation.
Agreement to Pay.
SECTION 6.06. In addition to all such rights of indemnity and subrogation as the Holdings may have under applicable law, the Company agrees that in the event a payment in respect of any Obligation shall be made by Holdings under this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Holdings for the full amount of such payment and Holdings shall be subrogated to the rights of the Payee to the extent of such payment. All rights of Holdings under this Section and all other rights of Holdings of indemnity, contribution or subrogation under applicable law or otherwise shall be fully subordinated and junior in right of payment to the indefeasible payment in full in cash of the Obligations. No failure on the part of the Company to make the payments required by this Section shall in any respect limit the obligations and liabilities of Holdings with respect to its obligations hereunder, and Holdings shall remain liable for the full amount of the obligations of Holdings hereunder.
Subrogation.
SECTION 6.07. Holdings (a) assumes all responsibility for being and keeping itself informed of the Company's financial condition and assets, and of all other circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of the Obligations and the nature, scope and extent of the risks that Holdings assumes and incurs hereunder, and (b) agrees that the Payee will have no duty to advise Holdings of information known to it regarding such circumstances or risks.
Information.
 
SECTION 6.08. Holdings agrees that the obligations of the Company under the Note may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Article V hereof (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Article V hereof) for purposes of Section 6.01 hereof notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing such obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against the Company and that, in the event of such declaration (or such obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), such obligations (whether or not due and payable by the Company) shall forthwith become due and payable by Holdings, in its capacity as a guarantor, for purposes of such Section 6.01.
Remedies.
SECTION 6.09. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum liability of Holdings in its capacity as a guarantor under this Article VI shall in no event exceed the amount which can be guaranteed by Holdings under applicable federal and state laws relating to the insolvency of debtors. Holdings agrees that the Obligations may at any time and from time to time exceed the amount of the liability of Holdings hereunder without impairing the guarantee contained in this Article VI or affecting the rights and remedies of the Payee hereunder.
Maximum Liability.
 


