FILE:MJN/MJN-8K-20091223163239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Tax Matters Agreement
On December 18, 2009, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company ("MJN") and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company ("BMS") amended the Tax Matters Agreement, dated February 10, 2009, between MJN and BMS, by entering into an Amended and Restated Tax Matters Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Tax Matters Agreement"). Pursuant to the amendments made under the Amended and Restated Tax Matters Agreement, MJN has covenanted that it will not, for two years following the completion of the Exchange Offer (as defined below) and the transactions contemplated in connection therewith, engage in any of the following actions unless MJN provides BMS with an opinion of counsel acceptable to BMS or BMS receives a private letter ruling, in each case, to the effect that such actions will not cause the distribution made by E.R. Squibb & Sons, L.L.C. of its entire equity interest in MJN to BMS (the "Internal Spin-Off"), the conversion (the "MJC Conversion") of MJN's wholly-owned subsidiary, Mead Johnson & Company, from a corporation to a limited liability company named Mead Johnson & Company, LLC ("MJC"), the conversion by BMS of its MJN class B common stock into MJN class A common stock (the "Recapitalization") or the Exchange Offer together with any subsequent spin-off to fail to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amendments made under the Amended and Restated Tax Matters Agreement also provide that for 30 months following the completion of the Exchange Offer and the transactions in connection therewith, if MJN proposes to enter into or take any affirmative action to permit certain transactions or series of related transactions as a result of which one or more persons would directly or indirectly acquire 10% or more of the value or total voting power of MJN's outstanding shares of capital stock, MJN will undertake in good faith to provide written notice to BMS, including an explanation as to why such transactions do not cause the Internal Spin-Off or the Exchange Offer together with any subsequent spin-off to fail to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss.
Furthermore, such amendments provide that MJN will indemnify BMS for taxes and certain related expenses resulting from the failure of the Internal Spin-Off, the MJC Conversion, the Recapitalization or the Exchange Offer together with any subsequent spin-off to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss to the extent attributable to (i) the failure of any of MJN's representations to be true or the breach by MJN of any of its covenants, (ii) the application of Section 355(e) or Section 355(f) of the Code to any acquisition of stock or assets of MJN or any of its affiliates or (iii) certain other acts or omissions by MJN or its affiliates, in each case unless such taxes result from the failure of any of BMS' representations to be true when made. A copy of the Amended and Restated Tax Matters Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
China Services Agreement
On December 18, 2009, MJN and BMS amended the China Services Agreement, dated February 10, 2009, between MJN and BMS, by entering into an Amended and Restated China Services Agreement (the "Amended and Restated China Services Agreement"). Pursuant to the amendments made under the Amended and Restated China Services Agreement, BMS will transfer to MJN its equity interests in MJN's business in China, which is currently managed and operated by Mead Johnson Nutritionals (China) Ltd. ("MJN China"), 89% of which is held indirectly by BMS and 11% of which is held by two Chinese companies not affiliated with BMS or
MJN, subject to receipt of required regulatory and other approvals. MJN expects to obtain these approvals within 3 to 6 months. As a consequence of such transfer, the Amended and Restated China Services Agreement will terminate and the related obligations to make the payments thereunder will cease. The amendments made under the Amended and Restated China Services Agreement also provide for a termination payment by BMS to MJN that is equal to the purchase price MJN will be required to pay to BMS for BMS' equity interests in MJN China. As a result, no net cash payments will be made between BMS and MJN in connection with the transfer of BMS' equity interests in MJN China to MJN and the corresponding termination of the Amended and Restated China Services Agreement. A copy of the Amended and Restated China Services Amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.01 Changes in Control of the Registrant.
On December 23, 2009, BMS announced the final results of its exchange offer (the "Exchange Offer") pursuant to which BMS disposed of all of the shares of class A common stock of MJN owned by BMS. The Exchange Offer is described in a registration statement on Form S-4 that MJN originally filed on November 16, 2009 (File No. 333-163126), including in a final ProspectusOffer to Exchange filed by MJN with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 16, 2009.
BMS distributed 170 million shares of MJN class A common stock in the Exchange Offer, representing approximately 83.1% of the outstanding shares of MJN common stock. BMS accepted 269,285,601 shares of its common stock in exchange for the shares of MJN class A common stock. The shares of MJN class A common stock distributed by BMS are owned by participants in the Exchange Offer or their transferees, and BMS no longer owns any voting or economic interest in MJN.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Resignation of Directors
On December 23, 2009, Lamberto Andreotti, John E. Celentano, Jean-Marc Huet and Sandra Leung, each of whom currently serves as an executive officer of BMS, resigned from MJN's board of directors. James M. Cornelius and Elliot Sigal, each of whom also currently serves as an executive officer of BMS, will remain on MJN's board of directors as the non-executive chairman and a member, respectively.
Adoption of Severance Plans
Executive Severance Plan
On December 23, 2009, at the authorization and direction of MJN, MJC adopted the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Senior Executive Severance Plan (the "Severance Plan") and MJN adopted the Severance Plan as a participating employer. The Severance Plan provides benefits to active, full-time or part-time executive level employees of MJC and the participating employers with a salary grade of 18 or above who are employed in the U.S. or who are U.S. expatriates. An employee who is party to an individual arrangement which provides severance benefits other than pursuant to the Severance Plan is not eligible for benefits under the Severance Plan. An employee also is not eligible for benefits under the Severance Plan if he or she is entitled to benefits under the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Executive Change in Control Severance Plan (the "Change in Control Severance Plan"), discussed below. All of MJN's executive officers are eligible to participate in the Severance Plan.
Severance benefits under the Severance Plan are triggered upon the employee's involuntary termination of employment by MJC or a participating employer other than for cause or by a voluntary termination of employment by the employee for good reason. For purposes of the Severance Plan, (a) "cause" generally means (i) a failure or refusal of the employee to substantially perform his or her duties, or (ii) severe misconduct that is detrimental to the interests of MJC or a participating employer and (b) "good reason" generally means (i) a material reduction in the employee's base salary, (ii) a reduction in the employee's grade level resulting in a material reduction of the employee's authority, duties or responsibilities, or (iii) a change in the principal geographic location of the employee's job or office of at least 50 miles. The employee's voluntary termination will not be for good reason if MJC cures the event constituting the good reason within 30 days of receiving the employee's timely notice of the good reason. An employee is not entitled to benefits under the Severance Plan unless he or she executes a valid and effective release of claims against MJC and its affiliates.
 
The amount of an employee's severance pay under the Severance Plan is based on the employee's position, or "tier." The Chief Executive Officer ("Tier 1 employee") will receive an amount equal to two times base salary, plus a pro-rated bonus. The Chief Financial Officer and Region Presidents ("Tier 2 employees") will receive an amount equal to one and one-half times base salary, plus a pro-rated bonus. Senior Executives in salary grade 18 or above but who are not a Tier 1 employee or a Tier 2 employee will receive an amount equal to one or one and one-half times base salary (as determined by MJN's Compensation Committee), plus a pro-rated bonus.
The Severance Plan also provides for continued medical and life insurance coverage and outplacement services for varying periods of time (and at varying levels) following termination.
MJC has the right to terminate or amend the Severance Plan at any time.
A copy of the Severance Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Change in Control Severance Plan
On December 23, 2009, at the authorization and direction of MJN, MJC adopted the Change in Control Severance Plan. The Change in Control Severance Plan provides benefits only to those employees who are employed in a Participating Executive Role. MJN's Compensation Committee determines which positions are included as a Participating Executive Role for purposes of the Change in Control Severance Plan. An employee who is party to an individual arrangement which provides severance benefits other than pursuant to the Change in Control Severance Plan is not eligible for benefits under the Change in Control Severance Plan. An employee also is not eligible for benefits under the Change in Control Severance Plan if he or she is entitled to benefits under the Severance Plan. All of MJN's executive officers are eligible to participate in the Change in Control Severance Plan.
Severance benefits under the Change in Control Severance Plan are triggered upon the executive's involuntary termination of employment with MJC and its affiliates other than for cause or by the executive's voluntary termination of employment for good reason during the two-year period following the date of a change in control (as defined in the Change in Control Severance Plan). For purposes of the Change in Control Severance Plan, (a) "cause" generally means (i) a willful and continued failure of the executive to substantially perform his or her duties for a period of 30 consecutive dates after written demand for performance is made by MJN's board of directors, (ii) willful engaging by the executive in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to MJC or its affiliates, or (iii) the executive's conviction of, or entry of a plea of to, a felony, and (b) "good reason" generally means (i) the assignment to the executive of any duties which are materially inconsistent with the executive's status as an officer of MJN or a substantial adverse alteration in the nature or status of the executive's authorities, duties or responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the change in control; (ii) a material adverse change in the executive's reporting relationships, (iii) a material reduction by MJC of the executive's base salary or bonus from the levels in effect immediately prior to a change in control, or as may be increased after a change in control; (iv) a change in the executive's principal place of employment to a location more than 50 miles from the location of employment immediately prior to the change in control, or, if the executive has consented to such relocation, the failure by MJC to provide the executive with benefits under MJC's relocation policy as in effect prior to the change in control; (v) the failure of MJC to pay any material amount or portion of compensation or deferred compensation within seven days of such amount becoming due; or (vi) the failure of MJC to continue any compensation or benefit plan which is material to the executive's compensation and in which he or she participated immediately prior to the change in control unless equitable alternative benefits are provided. The executive's voluntary termination will not be for good reason if MJC cures the event constituting the good reason within 30 days of receiving the executive's timely notice of the good reason. An executive is not entitled to benefits under the Change in Control Severance Plan unless he or she executes a valid and effective release of claims against MJC and its affiliates.
nolo contendre
The amount of an executive's severance pay is based on the executive's position, or "tier." The Chief Executive Officer ("Tier 1 executive") will receive an amount equal to three times base salary and bonus. Executives who are members of MJN's Management Committee ("Tier 2 executives") will receive an amount equal to two times base salary and bonus. Executives who have been designated as eligible for benefits by the Compensation Committee but who are not a Tier 1 executive or a Tier 2 executive will receive an amount equal to one times base salary and bonus.
 
The Change in Control Severance Plan also provides for continued medical and life insurance coverage, outplacement services and financial planning services for varying periods of time (and at varying levels) following termination.
Executives who are entitled to benefits under the Change in Control Severance Plan and who satisfy the release requirements will also be entitled to a supplemental retirement benefit in an amount equal to the difference between the accrued benefit to which the executive would have been entitled under MJC's tax qualified retirement plan (the "Retirement Plan") as of the executive's termination date determined as though the severance pay under the Change in Control Severance Plan had been taken into account for purposes of determining the executive's final average compensation under the Retirement Plan and the accrued benefit determined under the Retirement Plan. The supplemental benefit will be paid in a lump sum within 60 days following the Payment Start Date.
MJC has the right to terminate or amend the Change in Control Severance Plan at any time; provided, however, that the Change in Control Severance Plan may not be amended during the two year period following a change in control in a manner that reduces the payments or benefits to be provided to any person who was eligible to participate in the Change in Control Severance Plan on the date of the change in control.
A copy of the Change in Control Severance Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Equity Awards
As previously disclosed in the Prospectus-Offer to Exchange filed in connection with the Exchange Offer, MJN intends to grant executive officers and other employees restricted stock units ("RSUs") to replace the BMS equity awards that terminated as a result of the Exchange Offer. Each grant is expected to be evidenced by a separate restricted stock units agreement (the "RSU Agreement"). These RSU grants are expected to be time vested and will be settled at the end of the applicable vesting period (the "restricted period") in the form of shares of MJN common stock. Holders of RSUs will earn dividend equivalent units with respect to outstanding RSUs.
If the holder dies or retires while employed by MJN and its affiliates and prior to the end of the restricted period and after the holder has been employed for at least one year, a proportionate share of the RSUs will become vested upon such death or retirement. Special rules also apply in the case of disability terminations. If, during the restricted period and other than during the two year period (the "protected period") following a change in control (as defined in the Change in Control Severance Plan), the holder's employment is terminated by MJN and its affiliates other than for cause (as defined in the RSU Agreement) or if the holder terminates employment for good reason (as defined in the RSU Agreement), the holder will become vested in a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted pursuant to the RSU Agreement. If, during the restricted period and during the protected period, the holder's employment is terminated by MJN and its affiliates other than for cause or if the holder terminates employment for good reason, the holder will become fully vested in the total outstanding RSUs. If the RSUs would be cancelled or otherwise cease to be outstanding as the result of a change in control, the RSUs will vest without regard to termination of employment.
The RSU Agreement also contains non-competition and non-solicitation covenants, the violation of which may result in the forfeiture of the RSUs.
The accelerated vesting and forfeiture provisions of the existing MJN equity awards were amended on December 23, 2009 to generally conform to the foregoing provisions.
A copy of the form of the RSU Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Effective December 18, 2009, MJN amended and restated its bylaws to provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors or a majority of MJN's directors then in office. Such amendment was made to conform this provision of MJN's bylaws to a similar provision contained in its certificate of incorporation. A copy of MJN's bylaws, as amended and restated, is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 23, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
SECTION 1. . The registered office of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (hereinafter called the "") in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, or such other office or agent as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "") shall from time to time select.
Registered Office
Corporation
Board
SECTION 2. . The Corporation may also have an office or offices, and keep the books and records of the Corporation, except as may otherwise be required by law, at such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices
SECTION 1. . The meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall from time to time be fixed by the Board. The Board may, in its sole discretion, determine that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as authorized by Section 211(a)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "") (or any successor provision thereto). Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by action of the Board taken prior to the time previously scheduled for such annual meeting of stockholders.
Place of Meeting
DGCL
SECTION 2. . The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date and at such hour as shall from time to time be fixed by the Board.
Annual Meetings
SECTION 3. . Except as otherwise required by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "") and subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called by the Board pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board or by the chairman of the Board. The term "" shall mean the total number of directors then in office.
Special Meetings
Certificate
Whole Board
SECTION 4. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, notice of each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such
Notice of Meetings
stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy without protesting, prior to or at the commencement of the meeting, the lack of proper notice to such stockholder, or who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article VII of these By-laws. Notice of adjournment of a meeting of stockholders need not be given if the time, place, if any, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, to which it is adjourned are announced at such meeting, unless the adjournment is for more than 30 days or, after adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting.
SECTION 5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders entitled to vote generally, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the stockholders; , , that in the case of any vote to be taken by classes or series, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of a particular class or series, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum of such class.
Quorum
provided
however
SECTION 6. . The chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time whether or not a quorum is present. In the event that a quorum does not exist with respect to any vote to be taken by a particular class or series, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting with respect to the vote(s) to be taken by such class or series. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Adjournments
SECTION 7. . At any annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the annual meeting (i) by or at the direction of the chairman of the meeting, or (ii) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (iii) by any stockholder who is a holder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 7, who is entitled to vote on such business at the meeting and who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 7.
Order of Business
At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the President or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the President, such person as shall be selected by the Board shall act as chairman of the meeting. The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof, and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
 
For business (other than nominations for the election of directors, which are governed by Section 3 of Article III of these By-laws) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation (the ""). To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth in writing as to each business the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a brief description of such business and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws, the language of the proposed amendment; (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business; (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business; and (v) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal, a representation to that effect. If, after the stockholder has delivered the notice under this Section 7, any information required to be contained in such notice as described above changes prior to the date of the relevant meeting, such notice shall be deemed to be not in compliance with this Section 7 and not effective unless such stockholder, as promptly as practicable following the event causing such change in information, delivers to the Secretary an updated notice containing such change. If a stockholder who otherwise has given proper notice of a proposal does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such annual meeting or is no longer a holder of record on the date of such meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything in the By-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7. The chairman of an annual meeting may refuse to permit any business to be brought before an annual meeting which fails to comply with the foregoing procedures or, in the case of a stockholder proposal, if the stockholder solicits proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal without having made the representation required by clause (v) of the fourth preceding sentence. The term public announcement shall mean disclosure (i) in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Reuters Information Service or any similar or successor news wire service or (ii) in a communication distributed generally to stockholders and in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any successor provisions thereto.
Secretary
provided
however
SECTION 8. . It shall be the duty of the Secretary or other officer who has charge of the stock ledger to prepare and make, at least 10 days before each meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in
List of Stockholders
 
alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in such stockholder's name. Such list shall be produced and kept available at the times and places required by law.
SECTION 9. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, each stockholder of record of any series of Preferred Stock shall be entitled at each meeting of stockholders to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock, as may be fixed in the Certificate or in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board providing for the issuance of such stock, and each stockholder of record of common stock shall be entitled at each meeting of stockholders to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock, as may be fixed in the Certificate, in each case, if registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation:
Voting
(1) on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6 of Article VI of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting; or
(2) if no such record date shall have been so fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders may authorize not in excess of three persons to act for such stockholder by proxy. Any such proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of such meeting at or prior to the time designated for holding such meeting, but in any event not later than the time designated in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
At each meeting of the stockholders, all corporate actions to be taken by vote of the stockholders (except as otherwise required by law and except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the Certificate or these By-laws) shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast, entitled to vote thereon, by stockholders who are present in person or represented by proxy, and where a separate vote by class or series is required, a majority of the votes cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or represented by proxy shall be the act of such class or series.
Unless required by law or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any matter, including the election of directors, need not be by written ballot.
SECTION 10. . Stockholders may act by written consent solely to the extent provided in the Certificate.
Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
SECTION 11. . The Board shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting of stockholders and make a written report thereof. Such inspectors shall perform such duties as shall be required by law or specified by the chairman of the meeting. Inspectors need not be stockholders. No director or nominee for the office of director shall be appointed such inspector.
Inspectors
 
SECTION 1. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board or by any stockholder who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 3 and who is entitled to vote for the election of directors. However, nominations for the election of directors made by any stockholder of record entitled to vote for the election of directors at a meeting shall be valid and effective only if timely written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 120 nor more than 150 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board; (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected; (f) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect; and (g) with respect to each nominee for election or re-election to the Board, the completed and signed questionnaire required by this Section 3.
Notification of Nominations
provided
however
If, after the stockholder has delivered the notice of nominations under this Section 3, any information required to be contained in such notice as described above changes prior to the date of the relevant meeting, such notice shall be deemed to be not in compliance with this Section 3 and not effective unless such stockholder, as promptly as practicable following the event causing such change in information, delivers to the Secretary an updated notice containing such change. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the stockholder solicits proxies in favor of such stockholder's nominee(s) without having made the representation required by the notice under this Section 3. Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3 shall be eligible for election and to serve as directors of the Corporation.
 
To be eligible to be a nominee for election or re-election as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this Section 3) to the Secretary a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request).
SECTION 2. . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate or these By-laws, a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and, except as so provided, the vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting to another time and place whether or not a quorum is present. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
SECTION 3. . Subject to Sections 6 and 7 of this Article III, the Board may hold its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time determine or as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Place of Meeting
SECTION 4. . Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or by a majority of the Whole Board, and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as he or they, as applicable, shall fix.
Special Meetings
SECTION 5. . Notice of regular meetings of the Board or of any adjourned meeting thereof need not be given. Notice of each special meeting of the Board shall be given by overnight delivery service or mailed to each director, in either case addressed to such director at such director's residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such director at such place by telecopy or by electronic transmission or be given personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the meeting is to be held, but notice need not be given to any director who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a signed waiver of such notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting, prior to or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director. Every such notice shall state the time and place but need not state the purpose of the meeting.
Notice of Meetings
SECTION 6. . The Board may adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these By-laws for the conduct of its meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as the Board may deem proper.
Rules and Regulations
SECTION 7. . Any one or more members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in any meeting of the Board or of any such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other or as otherwise permitted by law, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meeting by Means of Communications Equipment
 
SECTION 8. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board or of any such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, by electronic transmission or transmissions, or as otherwise permitted by law and, if required by law, the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or of such committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
Action Without Meeting
SECTION 9. . Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time be not specified therein, upon receipt thereof; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
SECTION 10. . Each director, in consideration of such person serving as a director, shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum and such fees (payable in cash or stock) for attendance at meetings of the Board or of committees of the Board, or both, as the Board shall from time to time determine. In addition, each director shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by such person in connection with the performance of such person's duties as a director. Nothing contained in this Section 13 shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor.
Compensation
SECTION 11. . The Board may from time to time by resolution create committees of director, officers, employees or other persons, with such functions, duties and powers as the Board shall by resolution prescribe. A majority of all the members of any such committee may determine its actions and rules or procedure, and fix the time, place and manner of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. The Board shall have power to change the members of any such committee at any time, to fill vacancies, and to discharge any such committee, either with or without cause, at any time.
Establishment of Committees of the Board of Directors
SECTION 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board and shall consist of: a Chairman of the Board, a President and one or more Vice Presidents (including Assistant, Executive and Senior Vice Presidents) and a Treasurer, Secretary and Controller and such other officers or agents with such titles and such duties as the Board may from time to time determine, each to have such authority, functions or duties as in these By-laws provided or as the Board may from time to time determine, and each to hold office for such term as may be prescribed by the Board and until such person's successor shall have been chosen and qualified, or until such person's death or resignation, or until such person's removal in the manner hereinafter provided. One person may hold the offices and perform the duties of any two or more of said officers. The Board may require any officer or agent to give security for the faithful performance of such person's duties. The salaries of the officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time in the manner prescribed by the Board.
Number; Term of Office; Salary
 
SECTION 2. . Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board at any meeting thereof called for such purpose or, except for the Chairman of the Board, by any superior officer upon whom such power may be conferred by the Board.
Removal
SECTION 3. . Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice to the Board, the President or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later date specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
SECTION 4. . The Chairman of the Board shall be an officer of the Corporation, subject to the control of the Board, and shall report directly to the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall have supervisory responsibility over, operating and discharging responsibilities as shall be determined by the Board with the assistance of the officers of the Corporation reporting directly to the Chairman of the Board.
Chairman of the Board
SECTION 5. . The President shall have general supervision and direction of the business and affairs of the Corporation, subject to the control of the Board, and shall report directly to the Board. The President shall, if present and in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board.
President
SECTION 6. . Any Vice-President shall have such powers and duties as shall be prescribed by his superior officer or the Board. A Vice President shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the President or as the Board may from time to time determine. A Vice-President need not be an officer of the Corporation.
Vice-Presidents
SECTION 7. . The Treasurer, if one shall have been elected, shall supervise and be responsible for all the funds and securities of the Corporation; the deposit of all moneys and other valuables to the credit of the Corporation in depositories of the Corporation; borrowings and compliance with the provisions of all indentures, agreements and instruments governing such borrowings to which the Corporation is a party; the disbursement of funds of the Corporation and the investment of its funds; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the President or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Treasurer
SECTION 8. . The Controller shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation. The Controller shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the President or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Controller
SECTION 9. . It shall be the duty of the Secretary to act as secretary at all meetings of the Board, of the committees of the Board and of the stockholders and to record the proceedings of such meetings in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall see that all notices required to be given by the Corporation are duly given and served; the
Secretary
 
Secretary shall be custodian of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the seal or cause it to be affixed to all certificates of stock of the Corporation (unless the seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and to all documents, the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws; the Secretary shall have charge of the books, records and papers of the Corporation and shall see that the reports, statements and other documents required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of Secretary. The Secretary shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties agree with the President or as the Board may from time to time determine.
SECTION 10. . Any Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Board. Any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Treasurer or Secretary, respectively, or by the President.
Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries
SECTION 1. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article V, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea or nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings other than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
SECTION 2. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article V, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnify for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
SECTION 3. . Any indemnification under this Article V (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article V, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination, (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion or (iv) by the stockholders. Such determination shall be made, with respect to former directors and officers, by any person or persons having the authority to act on the matter on behalf of the Corporation. To the extent, however, that a present or former director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article V or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
Authorization of Indemnification
SECTION 4. . For purposes of any determination under Section 3 of this Article V, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful, if such person's action is based on good faith reliance on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another enterprise, or on information supplied to such person by the officers of the Corporation or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Corporation or another enterprise. The term "another enterprise" as used in this Section 4 shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. The provisions of this Section 4 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article V, as the case may be.
Good Faith Defined
 
SECTION 5. . Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article V, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any director or officer may apply to the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article V. The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standards of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article V, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article V nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the director or officer seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application. If successful, in whole or in part, the director or officer seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application.
Indemnification by a Court
SECTION 6. . Expenses, including without limitation attorneys' fees, incurred by a director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article V. Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by former directors or officers may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board deems appropriate.
Expenses Payable in Advance
SECTION 7. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to this Article V shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate, any agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article V shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law. The provisions of this Article V shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 or 2 of this Article V but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the DGCL, or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
SECTION 8. . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article V.
Insurance
SECTION 9. . For purposes of this Article V, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation
Certain Definitions
 
(including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, employees or agents so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article V with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this Article V, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect of any employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article V.
SECTION 10. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article V shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
SECTION 11. . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article V to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 5 of this Article V), the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director, officer, employee or agent in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board.
Limitation on Indemnification
SECTION 12. . The obligations of the Corporation under this Article V to indemnify a person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, including the duty to advance expenses, shall be considered a contract between the Corporation and such person, and no modification or repeal of any provision of this Article V shall affect, to the detriment of such person, such obligations of the Corporation in connection with a claim based on any act or failure to act occurring before such modification or repeal.
Contract Rights
SECTION 1. . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated shares that may be evidenced by a book-entry system maintained by the registrar of such stock, or a combination of both. To the extent that shares are represented by certificates, such certificates, whenever authorized by the Board, shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board. The certificates representing shares of
Certificates for Shares
 
stock of each class shall be signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board, or the President or Vice-President, and by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary. Any or all such signatures may be facsimiles if countersigned by a transfer agent or registrar. Although any officer, transfer agent or registrar whose manual or facsimile signature is affixed to such a certificate ceases to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate has been issued, it may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such officer, transfer agent or registrar were still such at the date of its issue.
The stock ledger and blank share certificates shall be kept by the Secretary or by a transfer agent or by a registrar or by any other officer or agent designated by the Board.
SECTION 2. . Transfers of shares of stock of each class of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation upon authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by a power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or a transfer agent for such stock, if any, and if such shares are represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power (or by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer) and the payment of any taxes thereon; , , that the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize and enforce any lawful restriction on transfer. The person in whose name shares are registered on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation; , , that whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely, and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer agent, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the transfer. No transfer of shares shall be valid as against the Corporation, its stockholders and creditors for any purpose, except to render the transferee liable for the debts of the Corporation to the extent provided by law, until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
Transfer of Shares
provided
however
provided
however
SECTION 3. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares of stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Registered Stockholders and Addresses of Stockholders
Each stockholder shall designate to the Secretary or transfer agent of the Corporation an address at which notices of meetings and all other corporate notices may be given to such person, and, if any stockholder shall fail to designate such address, corporate notices may be given to such person by mail directed to such person at such person's post office address, if any, as the same appears on the stock record books of the Corporation or at such person's last known post office address.
SECTION 4. . The holder of any certificate representing any shares of stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of
Lost, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates
 
any loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of such certificate; the Corporation may issue to such holder a new certificate or certificates for shares, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate or, in the case of loss, theft or destruction of the certificate, upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction; the Board, or a committee designated thereby, or the transfer agents and registrars for the stock, may, in their discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such person's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as they may direct to indemnify the Corporation and said transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
SECTION 5. . The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of each class of the Corporation and may make such rules and take such action as it may deem expedient concerning the issue of certificates in lieu of certificates claimed to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated.
Regulations
SECTION 6. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment or any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , , that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
provided
however
SECTION 7. . The Board may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
SECTION 1. . The Board shall provide a suitable corporate seal, which shall bear, but not be limited to, the full name of the Corporation and shall be in the charge of the Secretary. The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Seal
SECTION 2. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution by the Board.
Fiscal Year
SECTION 3. . Whenever any notice whatsoever is required to be given by these By-laws, by the Certificate or by law, the person entitled thereto may, either before or after the meeting or other matter in respect of which such notice is to be given, waive such notice in writing or as otherwise permitted by law, which shall be filed with or entered upon the records of the meeting or the records kept with respect to such other matter, as the case may be, and in such event such notice need not be given to such person and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to such notice.
Waiver of Notice
 
SECTION 4. . These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, and new By-laws may be adopted by (i) the affirmative vote of the shares representing not less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the then outstanding shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the Corporation entitled generally to vote on the election of the directors of the Corporation at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, that notice of the proposed alteration, amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-law or By-laws be included in the notice of such meeting or waiver thereof, or (ii) the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the Whole Board at any meeting of the Board, that notice of the proposed alteration, amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-law or By-laws be included in the notice of such meeting or waiver thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no alteration, amendment or repeal with respect to any provision under Article V of these By-laws or to this sentence shall be effective to any claim by a person under Article V based on any act or failure to act occurring before such alteration, amendment or repeal, to the extent detrimental to such claim by such person. The provisions of this Section 4 are subject to any contrary provisions and any provisions requiring a greater vote that are set forth in the Certificate or these By-laws.
Amendments
provided
provided
SECTION 5. . The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers, employees and agents of the Corporation who shall have power to execute and deliver deeds, contracts, mortgages, bonds, debentures, notes, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money and other documents for and in the name of the Corporation and may authorize (including authority to redelegate) by written instrument to other officers, employees or agents of the Corporation. Such delegation may be by resolution or otherwise and the authority granted shall be general or confined to specific matters, all as the Board or any such committee may determine. In the absence of such designation referred to in the first sentence of this Section, the officers of the Corporation shall have such power so referred to, to the extent incident to the normal performance of their duties.
Execution of Documents
SECTION 6. . All checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board or of any committee thereof or by any officer of the Corporation to whom power in respect of financial operations shall have been delegated by the Board or any such committee thereof or as set forth in these By-laws.
Checks
SECTION 7. . The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers of the Corporation who shall have authority from time to time to appoint an agent or agents of the Corporation to exercise in the name and on behalf of the Corporation the powers and rights which the Corporation may have as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or other entity, and to vote or consent in respect of such stock or securities; such designated officers may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of exercising such powers and rights; and such designated officers may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal, or otherwise, such written proxies, powers of attorney or other instruments as they may deem necessary or proper in order that the Corporation may exercise its said powers and rights.
Proxies in Respect of Stock or Other Securities of Other Corporations
 
SECTION 8. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the requirements of the DGCL and the Certificate, if any, may be declared by the Board at any regular or special meeting of the Board (or any action by written consent in lieu thereof in accordance with these By-Laws), and may be paid in cash, in property or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before any payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends
SECTION 9. . All powers, duties and responsibilities provided for in these By-laws, whether or not explicitly so qualified, are qualified by the provisions of the Certificate and applicable laws.
Subject to Law and Certificate of Incorporation
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
AMENDED AND RESTATED TAX MATTERS AGREEMENT dated as of December 18, 2009 (this "Agreement") between Bristol Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation ("BMS"), and Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, a Delaware corporation ("MJN", collectively, the "Companies").
WHEREAS BMS is the common parent of an affiliated group of corporations, within the meaning of Code Section 1504(a), that has elected to file consolidated Federal income Tax Returns, and MJN is a member of that group;
WHEREAS the Companies are parties to the Tax Matters Agreement dated February 4, 2009 (the "Old TMA");
WHEREAS BMS has decided to effect the following transactions: (i) on November 13, 2009, ERS distributed all of its shares of MJN Capital Stock to BMS (the "Internal Spin-off"); (ii) on November 15, 2009, BMS publicly announced its offer to exchange BMS stock for MJN Capital Stock and will file a Form S-4 with the SEC (the "Exchange Offer"), which offer will expire on the date that is 20 business days after it is announced, unless extended by BMS (the "Expiration Date"); (iii) on December 1, 2009, MJ&Co converted to a limited liability company pursuant to Section 266 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and Section 18-214 of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (the "MJ&Co Conversion"); (iv) on or shortly after the Expiration Date, BMS will convert all of its Class B common stock of MJN into Class A common stock of MJN (the "Recapitalization"); (v) shortly after the Recapitalization, BMS will close the Exchange Offer by exchanging a portion or all of its shares of MJN Capital Stock for outstanding shares of BMS common stock tendered to it by BMS shareholders (the "External Split-off"); and (vi) if BMS has not exchanged all of its shares of MJN Capital Stock in the External Split-off, BMS will distribute its remaining shares of MJN Capital Stock in a distribution to its shareholders (the "Clean-up Distribution").
WHEREAS the Companies intend, with respect to (i) the Internal Spin-off, that it qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss under Section 355 of the Code; (ii) the MJ&Co Conversion, that it qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Sections 332 and 337 of the Code; (iii) the Recapitalization, that it qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss under Section 368(a)(1)(E) and/or 1036(a) of the Code; (iv) the External Split-off and Clean-up Distribution, that they together qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss under Section 355 of the Code; and (v) ERS's Excess Loss Account in the stock of MJN, that it will not be included in income or otherwise taken into account upon the Internal Spin-off, the External Split-off or the Clean-up Distribution (the "Intended Tax Treatment");
WHEREAS BMS has received a Ruling, dated November 13, 2009, to the effect that (i) the Recapitalization will not cause the Internal Spin-off to fail to satisfy the "controls immediately before" requirement of Section 355(a)(1)(A); and (ii) the contributions by BMS to ERS of certain subsidiaries will not be treated as having been received by ERS in exchange for MJN stock distributed by ERS in the Internal Spin-off (the "Transaction Ruling");
WHEREAS MJN will cease to be a member of the BMS Consolidated Group after the Transactions; and
WHEREAS BMS and MJN desire to maintain certain existing agreements in the Old TMA and to memorialize certain new agreements relating to the Transactions;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, BMS and MJN hereby amend and restate the Old TMA, in its entirety, as follows:
SECTION 1.01. . The following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined). All section references are to this Agreement unless otherwise stated. All references to "includes" and "including" mean "includes without limitation" or "including without limitation", as the case may be.
Definition of Terms
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.05(b).
10% Acquisition Transaction
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under the common control with, such Person; , however, that (i) neither MJN nor any Person controlled by MJN shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of BMS, and (ii) neither BMS nor any Person that is controlled by BMS shall be considered to be an Affiliate of MJN unless such Person is MJN or controlled by MJN.
Affiliate
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Agreement
"" means any of (i) the Transitional Services Agreement; (ii) the China Services Agreement; (iii) the Asset Purchase Agreement to be entered into between Bristol-Myers Squib Nutricionales de Mxico, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Mead Johnson Nutricionales de Mxico, S. de R.L. de C.V.; (iv) the International Asset Purchase Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Farmacutica S.A. and Mead Johnson do Brasil Comrcio e Importao de Productos de Nutrio LTDA., effective September 15, 2009; and (v) the International Asset Purchase Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Argentina S.R.L. and Mead Johnson Nutrition S.R.L. dated as of January 31, 2009, in each case as amended from time to time.
Ancillary Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
BMS
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(b).
BMS Combined Return
"" means BMS and the affiliated group of corporations, within the meaning of Code Section 1504(a), of which BMS is the common parent. For the avoidance of doubt, a corporation shall be treated as being a member of the BMS Consolidated Group only for that portion of a taxable period that such corporation is actually described in the preceding sentence.
BMS Consolidated Group
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
BMS Consolidated Return
"" means BMS and its Affiliates. For the avoidance of doubt, the BMS Group includes MJN China only during the period before the China Transfer.
BMS Group
"" means the written opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP issued to BMS, in form and substance satisfactory to BMS in its sole discretion, as to the qualification of each of the Transactions for its Intended Tax Treatment. Such opinion may rely on the Transaction Ruling with respect to the legal issues addressed therein and on the Tax Representations with respect to the factual issues addressed therein.
BMS Tax Opinion
"" means (i) any representations made by BMS or its Affiliates in Representation Letters that serve as a basis for the BMS Tax Opinion and (ii) any representation made by BMS pursuant to Section 5.04(b)(ii)(C).
BMS Tax Representations
"" means any day on which the New York Stock Exchange, or its successor, is open for trading.
Business Day
"" means the China Services Agreement between BMS and MJN, dated as of February 10, 2009, as amended from time to time.
China Services Agreement
"" means the transfer of BMS's interest in MJN China to MJN pursuant to the China Services Agreement.
China Transfer
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Clean-up Distribution
"" means the closing date of the Clean-up Distribution or, if there is no Clean-up Distribution, the closing date of the External Split-off.
Closing Date
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Companies
"" means any taxable period (or portion thereof) ending on or before the date on which Deconsolidation occurs.
Consolidation Year
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii)(A).
Counterparty
 
"" means that the MJN Consolidated Group ceases to be included in the BMS Consolidated Group.
Deconsolidation
"" means the final resolution of liability for any tax for any taxable period by or as a result of (i) a final and unappealable decision, judgment, decree or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction; (ii) a final settlement, compromise or other agreement with the relevant taxing Authority, an agreement that constitutes a determination under Code Section 1313(a)(4), an agreement contained in an IRS Form 870-AD, a closing agreement or accepted offer in compromise under Code Sections 7121 or 7122, or a comparable agreement under state, local or foreign law; (iii) the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations; or (iv) the payment of the tax by the party responsible for payment of that tax under Section 2.03 if BMS and MJN agree that no action should be taken to recoup that payment.
Determination
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(b)(ii)(B)(x).
Discussions
"" means MJN Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.
Dutch Holdco
"" means E.R. Squibb and Sons LLC, a Delaware limited liability company treated as a corporation for U.S. Federal income tax purposes.
ERS
"" means any excess loss account within the meaning of Section 1.1502-19 of the Regulations.
Excess Loss Account
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Exchange Offer
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Expiration Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
External Split-off
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02(ii).
Gain Recognition Agreement
"" means a Company that has any obligation to indemnify an Indemnitee pursuant to this Agreement, the Separation Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Indemnifying Party
"" means a Company entitled to indemnification by an Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Agreement, the Separation Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Indemnitee
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Intended Tax Treatment
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Internal Spin-off
"" has the meaning set forth in the Separation Agreement.
IPO
"" means the Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" means, (i) before the MJ&Co Conversion, Mead Johnson & Company, a Delaware corporation and (ii) after the MJ&Co Conversion, Mead Johnson & Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
MJ&Co
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
MJ&Co Conversion
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
MJN
"" means (i) all classes or series of capital stock of MJN, including MJN Class A Common Stock; (ii) all instruments properly treated as stock for U.S. Federal income tax purposes; and (iii) all options, warrants and other rights to acquire such capital stock.
MJN Capital Stock
"" means Mead Johnson Nutritionals (China) Ltd. and its subsidiaries.
MJN China
"" means MJN and the affiliated group of corporations, within the meaning of Code Section 1504(a), of which MJN would be the common parent if it were not included in the BMS Consolidated Group. For the avoidance of doubt, a corporation shall be treated as being a member of the MJN Consolidated Group only for that portion of a taxable period that such corporation is actually described in the preceding sentence.
MJN Consolidated Group
"" means MJN and its Affiliates, except that the MJN Group includes MJN China only after the China Transfer.
MJN Group
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.01(a).
MJN Return Items
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(e).
MJN Tax Package
"" means any representations made by MJN or its Affiliates in Representation Letters that serve as a basis for the BMS Tax Opinion.
MJN Tax Representations
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Old TMA
"" means an individual or partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, joint stock company, trust, joint venture, unincorporated organization or other entity, without regard to whether such entity is treated as disregarded for U.S. Federal income tax purposes.
Person
"" means any taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning after Deconsolidation.
Post-Deconsolidation Year
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a)(ii).
Pro Forma MJN Combined Return
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a)(i).
Pro Forma MJN Consolidated Return
 
"" means the Pro Forma MJN Consolidated Returns, the Pro Forma MJN Combined Returns and the Pro Forma MJN Separate Returns.
Pro Forma MJN Return
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(a)(iii)).
Pro Forma MJN Separate Return
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04(c).
Proposed Acquisition Transaction
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Recapitalization
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.04.
Records
"" means the Treasury regulations promulgated under the Code or any successor Treasury regulations.
Regulations
"" means the representation letters delivered by BMS, MJN or their Affiliates in connection with the rendering by Tax Advisors of any opinions in connection with the Transactions.
Representation Letters
"" means a private letter ruling (including any supplemental ruling) issued by the IRS in connection with the Transactions.
Ruling
"" means any document filed by BMS with the IRS requesting a Ruling regarding certain tax consequences of the Transactions (including all attachments, exhibits and other materials submitted with such request) and any amendment or supplement to such request.
Ruling Request
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(c).
Separate Return
"" means the Separation Agreement dated January 31, 2009 by and among BMS, MJN and MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc.
Separation Agreement
"" means all Federal, state and local, and foreign, taxes, assessments, duties or similar charges of any kind whatsoever, whether direct or indirect, including any interest, penalties, additional amounts or additions thereto.
tax
"" means a U.S. tax counsel or accountant of recognized national standing.
Tax Advisor
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04(c)(ii).
Tax Attributes
"" means the MJN Tax Representations and the BMS Tax Representations.
Tax Representations
 
"" means any tax return, declaration, statement, report, form, estimate and information return relating to taxes, including any amendments thereto and any related or supporting information.
Tax Return
"" means any governmental body charged with the determination, collection or imposition of taxes.
Taxing Authority
"" means the Internal Spin-off, the Exchange Offer, the MJ&Co Conversion, the Recapitalization, the External Split-off and any Clean-up Distribution.
Transactions
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Transaction Ruling
"" means all taxes of any member of the BMS Group or the MJN Group resulting from the failure of any of the Transactions to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment and all reasonable out-of-pocket legal, accounting and other advisory and court fees incurred in connection with liability for such amounts.
Transaction Taxes
"" means the Transitional Services Agreement dated January 31, 2009 between BMS and MJN (as successor to MJN Restructuring Holdco, Inc), as amended from time to time.
Transitional Services Agreement
SECTION 2.01. . (a) For each taxable year for which BMS files a consolidated Federal income Tax Return (a "BMS Consolidated Return"), BMS shall include the MJN Consolidated Group in such Tax Return if entitled to do so. BMS shall prepare and timely file all BMS Consolidated Returns. To the extent that any BMS Consolidated Return directly relates to matters for which MJN must indemnify the BMS Group under Section 4.02, BMS shall (i) prepare that portion of the BMS Consolidated Return on a basis consistent with past practice (except as required by applicable law or as determined by BMS) and (ii) provide MJN a reasonable opportunity to review that portion of the BMS Consolidated Return. BMS shall notify MJN of any such portions not prepared on a basis consistent with past practice.
Filing of Returns
(b) For each taxable year for which it is permissible to file a Tax Return on a consolidated, combined, unitary or similar basis (other than a BMS Consolidated Return) that would include one or more members of the MJN Group and one or more members of the BMS Group (a "BMS Combined Return"), then the relevant member of the BMS Group may, in its sole discretion, determine whether to file such BMS Combined Return and whether to include certain or all of the relevant members of the MJN Group in such Tax Return. BMS shall prepare and timely file (or cause to be prepared and timely filed) any BMS Combined Returns. To the extent that any BMS Combined Return directly relates to matters for which MJN must indemnify the BMS Group under Section 4.02, BMS shall (i) prepare that portion of the BMS Combined Return on a basis consistent with past practice (except as required by applicable law or as
 
determined by BMS) and (ii) provide MJN a reasonable opportunity to review that portion of the BMS Combined Return. BMS shall notify MJN of any such portions not prepared on a basis consistent with past practice. Schedule A sets out a list of states in which BMS intends to file a BMS Combined Return that includes one or more members of the MJN Group.
(c) For all Tax Returns other than BMS Consolidated Returns and BMS Combined Returns ("Separate Returns"), the entity customarily responsible under applicable law for filing such Separate Returns shall prepare and timely file such Separate Returns. To the extent that any Separate Return filed by BMS directly relates to matters for which MJN must indemnify the BMS Group under Section 4.02, BMS shall (i) prepare that portion of the Separate Return on a basis consistent with past practice (except as required by applicable law or as determined by BMS) and (ii) provide MJN a reasonable opportunity to review that portion of the Separate Return. BMS shall notify MJN of any such portions not prepared on a basis consistent with past practice. To the extent that any Separate Return filed by MJN directly relates to matters for which BMS must indemnify the MJN Group under Section 4.01, MJN shall (i) prepare that portion of the Separate Return on a basis consistent with past practice (except as required by applicable law or as otherwise agreed by BMS and MJN) and (ii) provide BMS a reasonable opportunity to review that portion of the Separate Return. MJN shall notify BMS of any such portions not prepared on a basis consistent with past practice. Schedules B-1 through B-4 set out a list of each material U.S. taxing jurisdiction in which the parties presently intend that members of the MJN Group will file a Separate Return. The parties intend that members of the MJN Group will file Separate Returns in all relevant foreign jurisdictions unless BMS otherwise provides notice to MJN that there is an opportunity in any such foreign jurisdiction to file a BMS Combined Return.
SECTION 2.02. . BMS and MJN shall prepare, sign and timely file (or cause to be prepared, signed and timely filed) any consents, elections and other documents and take any other actions necessary or appropriate to effect the filing of the Tax Returns described in Section 2.01.
Consents and Elections
SECTION 2.03. . (a) The party responsible under Section 2.01 for preparing and filing a Tax Return shall pay to the relevant Taxing Authority any taxes shown as due on that Tax Return. The obligation to make these payments shall not affect the payor's right, if any, to receive payments under Section 2.04 or otherwise be indemnified with respect to that tax liability.
Payment of Taxes; Review of Tax Returns
(b) The party responsible under Section 2.01 for preparing and filing a Tax Return shall, if so requested by the other party, use commercially reasonable efforts to make such Tax Return or portions thereof and related workpapers available for review by the other party at least 30 days prior to the due date (including any available extensions) for filing such Tax Return and shall consider the reasonable comments made by such other party to the extent (i) such Tax Return relates to taxes for which the requesting party may be liable or (ii) adjustments to the amount of taxes reported on such Tax Return may affect the determination of taxes for which the requesting party may be liable. The parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve any issues arising out of the review of such Tax Returns.
 
SECTION 2.04.
Pro Forma MJN Returns
(a) . (i) For each taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning on or after January 1, 2009 in which the MJN Consolidated Group is included in a BMS Consolidated Return, BMS shall prepare a pro forma Federal income Tax Return for the MJN Consolidated Group (a "Pro Forma MJN Consolidated Return") based on the corresponding MJN Tax Package. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.04, the Pro Forma MJN Consolidated Return shall be prepared as if MJN filed a consolidated return on behalf of the MJN Consolidated Group.
Pro Forma MJN Returns in General
(ii) For each taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning on or after January 1, 2009 in which one or more members of the MJN Group is included in a BMS Combined Return, BMS shall prepare a pro forma Tax Return for those members of the MJN Group (a "Pro Forma MJN Combined Return") based on the corresponding MJN Tax Package. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.04, the Pro Forma MJN Combined Return shall be prepared as if the members of the MJN Group included in the BMS Combined Return instead filed a single combined return.
(iii) For each taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning on or after January 1, 2009 in which a Separate Return is filed, a portion of which relates to the MJN business and a portion of which does not, BMS shall prepare a pro forma Tax Return for the first such portion (a "Pro Forma MJN Separate Return") based on the corresponding MJN Tax Package.
(b) . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, income, gain, loss and other similar items attributable to MJN China shall not be included in any Pro Forma MJN Return for any taxable period (or portions thereof) ending on or before the effective date of the China Transfer.
China
(c) . (i) The Pro Forma MJN Returns shall be prepared in a manner consistent with the past practices of BMS (except as required by applicable law or as determined by BMS) and shall reflect all elections, positions and methods used in the relevant Tax Returns filed by BMS. BMS shall provide MJN a reasonable opportunity to review any Pro Forma MJN Returns. BMS shall notify MJN of any such portions not prepared on a basis consistent with past practice.
Preparation of the Pro Forma MJN Returns
(ii) The Pro Forma MJN Returns shall reflect any carryovers or carrybacks of net operating losses, net capital losses, excess tax credits and any other similar tax attributes ("Tax Attributes") arising in an earlier or later taxable period for which a Pro Forma MJN Return was prepared, to the extent such item would be so reflected if all Pro Forma MJN Returns were actual Tax Returns.
 
(iii) For purposes of preparing a Pro Forma MJN Return, the provisions of applicable law shall be applied as if the entities included in that Pro Forma MJN Return were a separate consolidated or combined group, except that a transaction between any member of the MJN Group, on the one hand, and any member of the BMS Group, on the other hand, shall not be taken into account until the first taxable year in which that transaction is required to be taken into account under Code Section 1502 or the comparable provision of state, local or foreign law.
(d) . (i) Except as provided in Section 2.04(d)(ii), each Company shall make (or cause to be made) payments to the other Company with respect to any Pro Forma MJN Return as if (A) that Pro Forma MJN Return were actually required to be filed under the laws of the applicable taxing jurisdiction and (B) BMS were the relevant Taxing Authority of that taxing jurisdiction. The amount of any payment required to be made under this Section 2.04(d)(i) with respect to any tax year commencing on or after January 1, 2009 and ending on or before December 31, 2009, shall be multiplied by a fraction (y) the numerator of which is the number of days between February 1, 2009 or the first day of such tax year, if later, and the end of such tax year and (z) the denominator of which is the number of days in such tax year.
Payments with Respect to Pro Forma MJN Returns
(ii) BMS shall make (or cause to be made) payments to MJN with respect to any Separate Return filed by MJN under Section 2.01(c) in an amount equal to the total taxes reflected on such Separate Return, reduced by the taxes reflected on the Pro Forma MJN Return prepared by BMS under Section 2.04(a)(iii)), as if MJN were the relevant Taxing Authority of that taxing jurisdiction. MJN shall make (or cause to be made) payments to BMS with respect to any such Separate Return to the extent that the amounts under the Pro Form MJN Return are adjusted and correspondingly result in an adjustment to the payment owing by BMS pursuant to the preceding sentence.
(iii) In applying the principles set out in this Section 2.04(d), all laws and regulations relating to timing and computation of payments, interest, penalties, additions to tax and additional amounts shall be applied, except to the extent any such interest, penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts arise solely as a result of an error by BMS in the preparation of a Pro Forma MJN Return.
(e) . At least 60 days prior to the due date (including any available extensions) for any applicable Tax Return, MJN shall provide to BMS, in a format determined by BMS, all information requested by BMS as reasonably necessary to prepare the BMS Consolidated Return, the BMS Combined Returns and the Pro Forma MJN Returns (the "MJN Tax Package"). The MJN Tax Package shall be prepared on a basis consistent with the principles set out in this Section 2.04.
Tax Package
 
(f) . Each Company shall notify the other Company of any amounts due to it under this Section 2.04 no later than five Business Days prior to the date such payments are due (or would be due) to be paid to a Taxing Authority. Payments required to be made under this Section 2.04 shall be made on or before such due date.
Notification and Payment
SECTION 2.05. . If there is a Determination or amendment to a Tax Return for any taxable period for which a Pro Forma MJN Return is required to be prepared, a corresponding adjustment shall be made to the corresponding Pro Forma MJN Return. Within 15 days of being provided with written notice of any such adjustment, each Company shall make (or cause to be made) payments to the other Company, including interest and any other amounts determined under Section 2.04(d)(iii) as appropriate, reflecting such adjustment.
Recalculation of Pro Forma MJN Return for a Determination
SECTION 3.01. . MJN shall (and shall cause members of the MJN Group to) waive, to the extent permitted under applicable law, carrybacks of Tax Attributes from any Post-Deconsolidation Year to any Consolidation Year unless such carryback does not have a material effect on BMS (as determined by BMS in its sole discretion). If any member of the MJN Group carries back a Tax Attribute from a Post-Deconsolidation Year to a Consolidation Year no payment shall be due from BMS with respect to that carryback, regardless of whether such carryback is required by law or permitted by BMS.
Post-Deconsolidation Year Carrybacks
SECTION 3.02. . MJN shall join with BMS in making an election under Section 1.1502-76(b)(2)(ii)(D) of the Treasury Regulations to allocate items ratably between the portion of the taxable year in which the MJN Consolidated Group is included in the BMS Consolidated Group and the MJN short period beginning after the date of the External Split-off.
Short Period Election
SECTION 3.03. . Immediately following the payment by BMS to MJN of any Net Actual Distribution Amount (as defined in the China Services Agreement) on any BMS Payment Due Date (as defined in the China Services Agreement), MJN shall pay to BMS the amount by which that Net Actual Distribution Amount exceeds 65% of the pre-tax (including withholding tax) earnings to which that Net Actual Distribution Amount relates. The intention of this clause is that MJN economically bear aggregate local and U.S. taxes with respect to MJN China at a 35% effective tax rate.
China
 
SECTION 4.01. . BMS shall indemnify the MJN Group and hold it harmless from:
BMS Indemnity
(i) any tax payable with respect to the BMS Consolidated Return and any BMS Combined Return or Separate Return that BMS is required to file (or cause to be filed) pursuant to Section 2.01. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Section 4.01(i) shall prevent BMS from receiving payment pursuant to Section 2.04(d)(i);
(ii) any tax of any member of the MJN Group for any taxable period (or portions thereof) ending on or before December 31, 2008;
(iii) any tax arising solely as a result of transferring the MJN business to any member of the MJN Group for purposes of separating the MJN business from BMS for the IPO or the Transactions, whether or not that transfer happened before the IPO or the Transactions; and
(iv) any Transaction Taxes.
excluding, in each case, any tax for which MJN is responsible under Section 4.02.
SECTION 4.02. . MJN shall indemnify the BMS Group and hold it harmless from:
MJN Indemnity
(i) any tax payable with respect to any Separate Return that MJN is required to file (or cause to be filed) pursuant to Section 2.01(c). For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Section 4.02(i) shall prevent MJN from receiving payments pursuant to Section 2.04(d)(ii);
(ii) any tax incurred as a result of any gain recognized pursuant to a gain recognition agreement entered into by any member of the BMS Consolidated Group in relation to a member of the MJN Group in accordance with Section 1.367(a)-8T of the Regulations ("Gain Recognition Agreement"), excluding any gain required to be recognized as a result of Deconsolidation being a "triggering event" (within the meaning of those Regulations); and
(iii) any Transaction Taxes resulting from (A) the failure of any of the MJN Tax Representations or any representation provided by MJN pursuant to Section 5.04(d)(i) to be true when made; (B) the breach by MJN of any covenant herein or in any Ancillary Agreement; (C) application of Section 355(e) or 355(f) of the Code to any acquisition of stock or assets of any member of the MJN Group or (D) any other act or omission by MJN or its Affiliates that it knows or reasonably should
 
expect, after consultation with its Tax Advisor, could give rise to Transaction Taxes (except to the extent such act or omission is otherwise expressly required or permitted by this Agreement (other than under Section 5.04(b)), the Separation Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement); , however, that if any Transaction Taxes result from the failure of any BMS Tax Representation to be true when made, MJN shall not be required to indemnify and hold harmless the BMS Group from such taxes.
provided
SECTION 4.03. . The amount of any indemnity payment made pursuant to this Agreement, the Separation Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement shall be (a) increased to take account of any taxes imposed on any taxable income or gain (including with respect to an Excess Loss Account) to the Indemnitee with respect to such payment (including taxes imposed on payments of such additional amounts pursuant to this paragraph) and (b) reduced to take account of any tax benefit realized by the Indemnitee arising from the incurrence or payment of the loss giving rise to such indemnity. For purposes of computing indemnity payments under this Section 4.03, each Company is assumed to pay tax at the maximum applicable tax rate.
Indemnity Payments Net of Taxes
SECTION 4.04. . Any indemnity payment made pursuant to this Agreement, the Separation Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements shall be treated for all tax purposes, if made by MJN to BMS (or by or to its Affiliates), as a distribution from MJN to BMS and, if made by BMS to MJN (or by or to its Subsidiaries), as a contribution from BMS to MJN, in each case immediately before the External Split-off, except to the extent otherwise required by law.
Treatment of Indemnity Payments
SECTION 5.01. . Each Company represents that:
Mutual Representations
(a) all information contained in its Representation Letters is true, correct and complete; and
(b) it has no plan or intention to take any action inconsistent with the qualification of the Transactions for the Intended Tax Treatment.
SECTION 5.02. . The Companies shall use their best efforts to cause the BMS Tax Opinion to be issued, including by executing any Representation Letters reasonably requested in connection with the BMS Tax Opinion, provided each Company shall have been provided with a reasonable opportunity to review, comment and consent to the content of any Representation Letter to be executed by it, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
Tax Opinions
SECTION 5.03. . Neither Company shall take or fail to take, or permit their respective Affiliates to take or fail to take, any action, if such action or omission would be inconsistent with its respective Tax Representations or cause such Tax Representations to be untrue when made.
Mutual Covenants
 
SECTION 5.04. . (a) From the date hereof until the first day after the two-year anniversary of the Closing Date, MJN shall not (and shall not cause or permit any of its Affiliates to), in a single transaction or a series of transactions:
Restricted Actions
(i) cause or allow the MJN Consolidated Group to cease to be engaged in the MJN business as an active trade or business (within the meaning of Section 355(b) of the Code and the Regulations thereunder);
(ii) take any action that could cause the MJ&Co Conversion to fail to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment by reason of the "liquidation-reincorporation" doctrine;
(iii) liquidate or partially liquidate MJN, by way of a merger, conversion or otherwise;
(iv) sell or transfer 50% or more of the gross assets of the MJN business or 50% or more of the consolidated gross assets of MJN (other than sales or transfers of inventory in the ordinary course of business);
(v) redeem or otherwise repurchase (directly or through an MJN Affiliate) any MJN Capital Stock, except to the extent such repurchases satisfy Section 4.05(1)(b) of Revenue Procedure 96-30 (as in effect prior to its amendment by Revenue Procedure 2003-48);
(vi) enter into any agreement to enter into a Proposed Acquisition Transaction; or
(vii) take any affirmative action that permits a Proposed Acquisition Transaction to occur by means of an agreement to which MJN is not a party (including by (A) redeeming rights under a shareholder rights plan, (B) making a determination that a tender offer is a "permitted offer" under any such plan or otherwise causing any such plan to be inapplicable or neutralized with respect to any Proposed Acquisition Transaction or (C) approving any Proposed Acquisition Transaction, whether for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law or any similar corporate statute, any "fair price" or other provision of MJN's charter or bylaws or otherwise).
(b) Notwithstanding Section 5.04(a), MJN may take any action described in Section 5.04(a) if:
(i) either of the following has occurred:
(A) BMS has received a Ruling, in form and substance satisfactory to BMS in its reasonable discretion, to the effect that such action will not cause the Transactions to fail to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment; or
 
(B) MJN has provided BMS with an opinion of counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to BMS in its reasonable discretion, to the effect that such action will not cause the Transactions to fail to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment. Such opinion must be a written "will" opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP or another Tax Advisor acceptable to BMS in its reasonable discretion, and must assume that the Transactions would have qualified for the Intended Tax Treatment if the action in question did not occur;
and
(ii) in the case of any action under 5.04(a)(vi) or 5.04(a)(vii), all of the following have occurred: (A) MJN shall have notified BMS of the other party to the Proposed Acquisition Transaction (the "Counterparty"); (B) no more than 30 days after delivery of such notice: (x) BMS shall have provided to MJN a memorandum describing any formal or informal discussions or negotiations in the twenty-four month period preceding the Closing Date regarding the stock or assets of MJN (or any predecessor, including MJ&Co) (such discussions or negotiations, "Discussions") entered into by or on behalf of BMS with the Counterparty or its representatives, and (y) MJN shall have provided to BMS a memorandum describing (1) any Discussions entered into by or on behalf of MJN with the Counterparty or its representatives and (2) based on information provided to MJN by the Counterparty, any Discussions entered into by or on behalf of the Counterparty with BMS or MJN or their representatives; and (C) no more than 10 days after delivery of such memoranda, BMS and MJN each may revise its memorandum to correct any inaccuracies or omissions and shall provide a representation that, to its knowledge, its memorandum (as revised) is true, correct and complete in all material respects.
The satisfaction of the conditions of this Section 5.04(b) shall not in any way relieve MJN of its indemnification obligations under Section 4.02.
(c) . (i) For the purposes of this Agreement, "Proposed Acquisition Transaction" means a transaction or series of related transactions as a result of which one or more Persons (directly or indirectly) acquires, from MJN or otherwise, a number of shares of MJN Capital Stock that, when combined with any other such acquisitions of MJN Capital Stock that occur on or after the IPO (but excluding any other acquisition that occurs in (A) the IPO itself or (B) any transaction that is excluded from the definition of Proposed Acquisition Transaction under subparagraph (ii)), comprise 40% or more of the value or the total combined voting power of all outstanding shares of MJN Capital Stock as of the date of such transaction or, in the case of a series of related transactions, the last transaction in such series. For purposes of determining whether a transaction constitutes an indirect acquisition, any recapitalization resulting in a shift of voting power or any redemption of shares of MJN Capital Stock shall be treated as an indirect acquisition of shares of MJN Capital Stock by the non-exchanging shareholders.
Definition of Proposed Acquisition Transaction
 
(ii) Notwithstanding subparagraph (i), a Proposed Acquisition Transaction shall not include (A) the adoption by MJN of a shareholder rights plan that meets the requirements of IRS Revenue Ruling 90-11, 1990-1 C.B. 10, (B) issuances of MJN Capital Stock by MJN that satisfy Safe Harbor VIII (relating to acquisitions in connection with a person's performance of services) or Safe Harbor IX (relating to acquisitions by a retirement plan of an employer) of  1.355-7(d) of the Regulations or (C) any acquisition of MJN Capital Stock that satisfies Safe Harbor VII (relating to acquisitions of stock listed on an established market) of  1.355-7(d) of the Regulations.
(iii) The provisions of this Section 5.04(c), including the definition of "Proposed Acquisition Transaction", are intended to monitor compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code and shall be interpreted accordingly. Any clarification of, or change in, Section 355(e) of the Code or the Regulations thereunder shall be incorporated in this Section 5.04(c) and its interpretation.
(d) . (i) If MJN notifies BMS that it desires to take one of the actions described in Section 5.04(a), BMS and MJN shall reasonably cooperate to attempt to obtain the opinion or Ruling referred to in Section 5.04(b). Before any Ruling Request is filed, BMS shall provide MJN with a copy of such Ruling Request and a reasonable period of time in which to review and comment on such Ruling Request. Following completion of such review, to the extent it is capable of doing so, MJN shall represent to BMS that it has read the Ruling Request and that any information and representations relating to any member of the MJN Group contained in the Ruling Request are (subject to any qualifications therein) true, correct and complete. MJN shall reimburse BMS for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the BMS Group in obtaining a ruling or opinion requested by MJN within 10 Business Days after receiving an invoice from BMS therefor.
Procedures Regarding Rulings and Opinions
(ii) BMS shall have sole and exclusive control over the process of obtaining any Ruling, and only BMS may apply for a Ruling. Neither MJN nor any Affiliate of MJN shall seek any guidance from the IRS or any other Taxing Authority (whether written, oral or otherwise) at any time concerning the consequences to BMS of the Transactions (including the effect of any other transaction on such consequences of the Transactions).
SECTION 5.05. (a) If MJN proposes to enter into any 10% Acquisition Transaction or takes any affirmative action to permit any 10% Acquisition Transaction to occur at any time during the thirty-month period following the Closing Date, MJN shall undertake in good faith to provide BMS, no later than ten Business Days following the
Notification and Certification Respecting Certain Acquisition Transactions.
 
signing of any written agreement with respect to such 10% Acquisition Transaction or obtaining knowledge of the occurrence of any such 10% Acquisition Transaction that takes place without a written agreement, with a written description of such transaction (including the type and amount of MJN Capital Stock to be issued) and an explanation as to why such transaction does not result in the application of Section 355(e) of the Code to the Transactions.
(b) For purposes of this Section 5.05, "10% Acquisition Transaction" means any transaction or series of transactions that would be a Proposed Acquisition Transaction if the percentage specified in the definition of Proposed Acquisition Transaction were 10% instead of 40%.
SECTION 5.06. BMS and MJN each (a) shall timely file (or cause to be filed) the appropriate information and statements (including as required by Section 1.355-5 of the Regulations) to report the Transactions as qualifying for the Intended Tax Treatment and (b) absent a change of law or a Determination in respect of the Transactions, shall not take any position on any Tax Return, financial statement or other document that is inconsistent with the Transactions qualifying for the Intended Tax Treatment.
Reporting.
SECTION 5.07. . Before the date of the MJ&Co Conversion, MJN contributed to MJ&Co (and did not subsequently withdraw prior to the date of the MJ&Co Conversion) an amount no less than $1.74 billion to repay the intercompany debt owed by MJ&Co to ERS.
Required Contribution
SECTION 6.01. . (a) BMS shall have exclusive and sole responsibility and control with respect to the conduct and settlement of any examinations and contests by a Taxing Authority of any Tax Returns that BMS is responsible for filing under Article II; , however, that BMS shall not without the consent of MJN (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed) settle any matter for which MJN would be required to indemnify under Section 4.02 or which would result in an additional payment obligation of MJN under Article II. If MJN does not respond to BMS's request for consent within 15 Business Days, MJN shall be deemed to have consented. Within 15 Business Days of the commencement of any such audit proceeding or contest, BMS shall give MJN notice of and consult with MJN with respect to any issues relating to items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit of any member of the MJN Group (any such items, "MJN Return Items"); , however, that MJN shall not be relieved of any obligation to make additional payments under this Agreement if BMS fails to timely deliver the notice described above except to the extent that MJN is actually prejudiced thereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, BMS shall have the exclusive and sole right to determine the forum in which to contest any matter described in this Section 6.01(a), and if it chooses to pay the disputed tax and seek a refund, then MJN shall either (i) promptly pay to BMS the amount of such disputed tax
Audits and Contests
provided
provided
 
with respect to which MJN would be required to indemnify under Section 4.02 or which could result in an additional payment obligation of MJN under Article II or (ii) agree to pay BMS interest at the rate specified in Section 8.01, dating from the date of BMS's payment of such disputed tax, with respect to the amount so paid.
(b) BMS and MJN shall have joint control with respect to the conduct and settlement of any examinations and contests by a Taxing Authority of any Separate Tax Return that MJN is responsible for filing under Article II and with respect to which BMS must indemnify MJN; provided, however, that BMS and MJN shall not settle any such examinations or contests without the consent of the other party (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed). If either BMS or MJN do not respond to the other party's request for consent within 15 Business Days, that party shall be deemed to have consented.
SECTION 6.02. . Each Indemnifying Party shall reimburse the Indemnitee for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including legal, consulting and accounting fees) in the course of proceedings described in Section 6.01 to the extent those expenses are reasonably attributable to the Indemnifying Party or any of its Affiliates, or to any matter for which the Indemnifying Party is required to indemnify under Article IV or which would result in an additional payment obligation of the Indemnifying Party under Article II.
Expenses
SECTION 7.01. . (a) Each member of the BMS Group and the MJN Group shall cooperate fully with all reasonable requests from the other party in connection with the preparation and filing of Tax Returns, audits, contests and other matters covered by this Agreement. Such cooperation shall include the preparation and execution of the memoranda and representations described in Section 5.04(b)(ii), the execution of any document that may be necessary or reasonably helpful in connection with any audit or contest, the filing or amending of a Tax Return by a member of the BMS Group or the MJN Group or obtaining any tax opinion or private letter ruling.
Cooperation and Good Faith
(b) The Companies shall perform all actions required or permitted under this Agreement in good faith.
SECTION 7.02. . Prior to any event that may result in recognition or recapture of income (including under any Gain Recognition Agreement or domestic use agreement), BMS and MJN shall use (and shall cause the members of the BMS Group and MJN Group, respectively, to use) all commercially reasonably efforts to eliminate such recognition or recapture of income or otherwise avoid or minimize the impact thereof. For the avoidance of doubt:
Duty to Mitigate Recognition or Recapture of Income
(i) MJN shall enter into (or shall cause the appropriate member of the MJN Group to enter into) a new Gain Recognition Agreement pursuant to Section 1.367(a)-8T(g) of the Regulations, if entering into that Gain Recognition Agreement would preclude or defer the recognition of gain by any member of the BMS Group; and
 
(ii) To the extent that any member of the MJN Group is a "U.S. transferor" (within the meaning of Section 1.367(a)-8T(a)(1)(xi) of the Regulations) with respect to property for which a Gain Recognition Agreement was entered into, MJN shall comply (or shall cause the appropriate member of the MJN Group to comply) with the annual certification requirements of Section 1.367(a)-8T(b)(5) of the Regulations for the term of such Gain Recognition Agreement and promptly provide copies of those annual certifications to BMS. A list of Gain Recognition Agreements are set out in Schedule C.
(iii) At the request of BMS, MJN shall file (or shall cause the appropriate member of the MJN Group to file) a new domestic use agreement pursuant to Section 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2) of the Regulations with respect to any dual consolidated loss for which BMS has previously filed a domestic use agreement pursuant to Section 1.1503(d)-6(d) of the Regulations.
SECTION 7.03. Until the termination of the Transitional Services Agreement as it relates to tax matters, and to the extent consistent with the provisions of that agreement as shall be in effect at the relevant time, the person holding the office of Vice President, Taxes, BMS, (i) is hereby duly authorized to sign any Tax Return or any other document relating to taxes as a duly authorized signatory of any member of the MJN Group and (ii) shall have final decision making authority in relation to the content of any Tax Returns or other matters relating to taxes, in each case, unless, and solely with respect to Separate Returns filed by MJN under Section 2.01(c) (other than any Separate Returns described in the penultimate sentence of Section 2.01(c)), the Board of Directors of MJN affirmatively determines otherwise.
Authority.
SECTION 7.04. . Until the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations (including extensions), each of BMS and MJN shall (i) retain records, documents, accounting data, computer data and other information (collectively, the "Records") necessary for the preparation, filing, review, audit or defense of all Tax Returns or relevant to an obligation, right or liability of either party under this Agreement; and (ii) give each other reasonable access to such Records and to its personnel (insuring their cooperation) and premises to the extent relevant to an obligation, right or liability of either party under this Agreement. Prior to disposing of any such Records, each of BMS and MJN shall notify the other party in writing of such intention and afford the other party the opportunity to take possession or make copies of such Records at its discretion.
Document Retention, Access to Records and Use of Personnel
SECTION 7.05. . The parties agree, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, to treat the execution of the China Services Agreement on February 10, 2009 as the contribution (under Section 351 of the Code) by BMS of its partnership interest in MJN China to MJN in consideration for Class A common stock of MJN.
China Services Agreement
 
SECTION 7.06. . The cooperation and other provisions set out in the Separation Agreement relating to value added taxes payable in connection with transferring the MJN business to members of the MJN Group represent the sole and complete understanding of the parties with respect to value added taxes.
Value Added Taxes
SECTION 7.07. . Prior to December 10, 2009, MJN shall have caused, and again prior to December 31, 2009, MJN shall cause, all direct and indirect subsidiaries of Dutch Holdco to pay distributions up to Dutch Holdco, in each case to the maximum extent reasonably possible; that no direct or indirect subsidiary of Dutch Holdco is left without a commercially reasonable amount of working capital after making any such distribution. MJN shall cause Dutch Holdco not to pay any distributions to MJN during 2009 except to the extent reasonably necessary to allow MJN to service its debt obligations.
Dutch Holdco Earnings and Profits
provided
SECTION 8.01. . Except as provided in Section 2.04(d)(iii), any payments required pursuant to this Agreement that are not made within the time period specified in this Agreement shall bear interest at a rate equal to two hundred basis points above the average interest rate on the senior bank debt of BMS.
Interest
SECTION 8.02. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing in this Agreement shall require MJN or BMS, as the case may be, to make any payment to the extent that the payment is attributable to a Tax Attribute for which payment has previously been made under this Agreement.
No Duplication of Payment
SECTION 8.03. . Each of the Companies agrees that any information furnished pursuant to this Agreement is confidential and, except as and to the extent required by law or otherwise during the course of an audit or contest or other administrative or legal proceeding, shall not be disclosed to other persons. In addition, each of BMS and MJN shall cause its employees, agents and advisors to comply with the terms of this Section 8.03.
Confidentiality
SECTION 8.04. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor to any of the parties, by merger, acquisition of assets or otherwise, to the same extent as if the successor had been an original party to this Agreement, and in such event, all references herein to a party shall refer instead to the successor of such party.
Successors and Access to Information
SECTION 8.05. The Companies acknowledge that irreparable damage would occur to them in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with its specific terms or were otherwise breached. The Companies agree that they shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions
Injunctions.
 
to prevent breaches of the provisions of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions hereof in any court having jurisdiction, such remedy being in addition to any other remedy to which it may be entitled at law or in equity. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent any Company from seeking injunctive relief as it deems necessary or appropriate.
SECTION 8.06. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of New York excluding (to the greatest extent permissible by law) any rule of law that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York.
Governing Law
SECTION 8.07. . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed for any purpose to constitute a part or to affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
SECTION 8.08. . This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of this Agreement to produce or account for more than one counterpart.
Counterparts
SECTION 8.09. . Any payment, notice or communication required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing (including telecopy communication) and mailed, telecopied or delivered to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address as one party may specify by notice to the other party):
Notices
If to BMS:
 
If to MJN:
 
 
or to any other address as BMS or MJN shall furnish in writing to one another. All such notices and communications shall be effective when received.
SECTION 8.10. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the maximum extent practicable. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid, binding, and enforceable to their full extent.
Severability
SECTION 8.11. . This Agreement shall remain in force and be binding so long as the applicable period of assessments (including extensions) remains unexpired for any taxes contemplated by this Agreement; , however, that neither BMS nor MJN shall have any liability to the other party with respect to tax liabilities for taxable years in which MJN is not included in the BMS Consolidated Returns except as provided in Article II of this Agreement.
Termination
provided
SECTION 8.12. . Any reference herein to any provisions of the Code or Treasury Regulations shall be deemed to include any amendments or successor provisions thereto as appropriate.
Successor Provisions
SECTION 8.13. . BMS and MJN each shall cause all present and future members of the BMS Group and the MJN Group to comply with the terms of this Agreement.
Compliance by Group Members
SECTION 8.14. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the provisions of this Agreement shall survive for the full period of all applicable statutes of limitations (giving effect to any waiver, mitigation or extensions thereof).
Survival
SECTION 8.15. . Except as explicitly stated herein, this Agreement embodies the entire understanding between the parties relating to its subject matter and supersedes and terminates all prior agreements and understandings among the parties with respect to such matters, including the Old TMA. No promises, covenants or representations of any kind, other than those expressly stated herein, have been made to induce any party to enter into this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be modified or terminated except by a writing duly signed by each of the parties hereto, and no waiver of any provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in a writing duly signed by the party sought to be bound. If, and to the extent, the provisions of this Agreement conflict with the Transitional Services Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall control.
Integration; Amendments
SECTION 8.16. . Each party waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any dispute arising out of this Agreement.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties to this Agreement has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
The following Schedule sets out a list of states in which BMS intends to file a BMS Combined/Consolidated Tax Return that includes one or more members of the MJN Group for the short period from January 1, 2009 through December 15, 2009 (or the date of the External Split-off if different).
 
 
The following Schedule sets out a list of each material U.S. taxing jurisdiction in which the parties intend that MJN will file a Separate Return for the short period from January 1, 2009 through December 1, 2009 (or the date of the MJ&Co Conversion, if different).
 
 
The following Schedule sets out a list of each material U.S. taxing jurisdiction in which the parties intend that MJN will file a Separate Return for the short period from January 1, 2009 through December 15, 2009 (or the date of the External Split-off if different).
 
 
The following Schedule sets out a list of each material U.S. taxing jurisdiction in which the parties intend that MJN will file a Separate Return for the short period from December 2, 2009 (or the day after the date of the MJ&Co Conversion if different) through the respective dates listed below:
A. Through December 15, 2009
 
B. Through December 31, 2009
 
 
The following Schedule sets out a list of each material U.S. taxing jurisdiction in which the parties intend that MJN will file a Separate Return for the short period from December 16, 2009 (or the day after the date of the External Split-off if different) through December 31, 2009. The Tax Returns listed under "Combined/Consolidated" below are generally limited to the MJN Consolidated Group and do not include BMS or any of its Affiliates.
A. Separate
 
 
B. Combined/Consolidated*
 
 
 
Clauses 4.02(ii) and 7.02 - Below is a list of the entities for which GRAs have been entered into in connection with the IPO:
1. Bristol-Myers Squibb (Hong Kong) Limited (to be renamed Mead Johnson Nutrition (Hong Kong) Limited);
2. Mead Johnson Nutrition Holdings (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.; and
3. Triple J Ingredients Pte. Ltd.
 

Exhibit 10.2
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
This AMENDED AND RESTATED CHINA SERVICES AGREEMENT, dated as of December 1, 2009 (this ""), is by and between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, a Delaware corporation (""), and Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
BMS
MJN
WHEREAS, MJN was, prior to the Separation Date (as defined below), a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of BMS.
WHEREAS, BMS and MJN entered into that certain Separation Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2009 (the ""), pursuant to which substantially all of the Mead Johnson Business (as defined below) was transferred under MJN's control (the "").
Separation Agreement
Separation
WHEREAS, the Parties entered into the China Services Agreement, dated as of February 10, 2009, in connection with the Separation and now desire to amend and restate such agreement in its entirety.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, the mutual covenants and undertakings contained herein and the transactions contemplated by the Separation Agreement, the receipt and sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the Parties hereby mutually agree as follows:
SECTION 1. . Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Separation Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, the following words and phrases will have the following meanings:
Definitions
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Actual Distribution Amount
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Actual Distribution Amount Instruction
"" will have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Agreement
"" will have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
BMS
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
BMS Group Person
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
BMS Payment Due Date
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).
BMS Share Transfer
"" means Mead Johnson Nutritionals (China) Ltd.
BMS Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any date following the Separation Date, the product of (1) the cash held by BMS Subsidiary on such date multiplied by (2) the Ownership Interest.
BMS Subsidiary Cash
"" means Bristol-Myers Squibb (China) Investment Company Limited, the direct holder of the BMS Subsidiary Shares.
BMS Subsidiary Shareholder
"" means all of the equity interest of the BMS Subsidiary which, as of the date of this Agreement, are held indirectly by BMS and directly by BMS Subsidiary Shareholder.
BMS Subsidiary Shares
"" will be equal to the Consideration.
BMS Subsidiary Shares Transfer Value
"" means any day except Saturday, Sunday or any day on which banks are generally not open for business in the city of New York.
Business Day
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Consent Date
"" means the fair market value of the BMS Subsidiary Shares as determined by BMS in its sole discretion.
Consideration
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Contribution
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Contribution Amount
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b).
Contribution Date
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 4(c).
Governmental Approvals
"" means any federal, state, local, foreign or international court, government, department, commission, board, bureau, agency, official or other regulatory, administrative or governmental authority.
Governmental Authority
"" means the BMS Group or the MJN Group, as applicable.
Group
"" means information in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible form, stored in any medium, including studies, reports, records, books, contracts, instruments, surveys, discoveries, ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, designs, specifications, drawings, blueprints, diagrams, models, prototypes, samples, flow charts, data, computer data, disks, diskettes, tapes, computer programs or other software, marketing plans, customer names, communications by or to attorneys (including attorney-client privileged communications), memoranda and other materials prepared by attorneys or under their direction (including attorney work product), and other technical, financial, employee or business information or data.
Information
 
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Initial Distribution Date
"" means Guangzhou Development District Commerce & Development Group Company Limited and Guangzhou Light Industry & Trade Group Limited or their respective successors and assigns, as applicable.
Joint Venture Partners
"" means any law, statute, rule, regulation or other requirement imposed by a Governmental Authority.
Law
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Maximum Distribution Amount
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Maximum Distribution Amount Notice
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Maximum Distribution Amount Notice Date
"" will have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
MJN
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
MJN Group Person
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 4(b).
MJN Share Transfer
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 4(b).
MJN Subsidiary
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Net Actual Distribution Amount
"" means the percentage, expressed as a decimal fraction, of BMS Subsidiary's total amount of registered capital which are held, directly or indirectly, by BMS, which as of the date hereof equals 0.89.
Ownership Interest
"" will have the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement.
Separation
"" will have the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement.
Separation Agreement
"" means February 10, 2009.
Separation Date
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Services
"" means the annual rate of interest that BMS Subsidiary Shareholder earns on its invested cash balances from time to time.
Specified Interest Rate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Tax
"" means the Tax Matters Agreement dated as of February 4, 2009 between BMS and MJN, as it may be amended from time to time.
Tax Matters Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement.
Tax Return
"" means any Governmental Authority charged with the determination, collection or imposition of Taxes.
Taxing Authority
"" will have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).
Termination Date
SECTION 2. .
Services
(a) . MJN agrees to provide, and cause to be provided by a Person in the MJN Group other than MJN (each, an ""), to BMS or any Person in the BMS Group other than BMS (each, a ""), all services, service support and access to assets and resources, including intellectual property, needed from MJN or any MJN Group Person to permit BMS Subsidiary to operate, after the Separation Date, in a manner consistent with MJN's global strategy, instruction and direction (the "").
Services
MJN Group Person
BMS Group Person
Services
(b) . MJN will use its commercially reasonable efforts to provide, and cause any relevant MJN Group Person to provide, the Services in a manner which is substantially similar in nature, quality and timeliness to the manner in which the Services would be provided to MJN and the MJN Group if the BMS Subsidiary Shares were indirectly held by MJN instead of BMS. BMS acknowledges that MJN's obligations under this Section 2(b) are contingent upon BMS (i) providing, or causing any relevant BMS Group Person to provide, in a timely manner, all services (on a basis consistent with past practice), information, documentation, materials, resources and access, (ii) making, or causing any relevant BMS Group Person to make, timely decisions, approvals and acceptances, and (iii) taking, or causing any relevant BMS Group Person to take, in a timely manner, such other actions requested by MJN or any relevant MJN Group Person, in each case that MJN or any relevant MJN Group Person (in its reasonable business judgment) believes is necessary or desirable to enable MJN or any relevant MJN Group Person to provide the Services; , , that MJN and any relevant MJN Group Person requests such approvals, information, materials or services with reasonable prior notice to the extent practicable.
Standard of Performance
provided
however
(c) . The Parties will use good faith efforts to cooperate with each other in connection with the performance of the Services, including producing, on a timely basis, all information that is reasonably requested with respect to the performance of the Services. Such cooperation will include exchanging information, providing electronic access to systems used in connection with the Services and obtaining or granting all consents, licenses, sublicenses or approvals necessary to permit the Services to be provided. The Parties will cooperate with each other in making information available as needed in connection with statutory or
Cooperation
 
governmental compliance issues, whether in the United States or any other country; , , that the provision of such information will be without representation or warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of such information. For the avoidance of doubt, and without limiting any privilege or protection that now or hereafter may be shared by the Parties, neither Party will be required to provide any document if the Party who would provide such document reasonably believes that so doing would waive any privilege or protection (, attorney-client privilege) applicable to such document. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2(c), the Tax Matters Agreement will govern the relationship between the Parties in respect of any Tax audits or contests.
provided
however
e.g.
(d) . All Information or other property of MJN or any MJN Group Person that MJN or any MJN Group Person, or any Person working for or through MJN or any MJN Group Person, provides or makes available to BMS or any BMS Group Person in connection with the Services, will remain the property of MJN or the relevant MJN Group Person. As soon as practicable following the Termination Date, BMS will return, and will cause the relevant BMS Group Persons to return, to MJN and the relevant MJN Group Persons, such Information or property, as well as any Information or other property that was under the possession or control of MJN or any MJN Group Person prior to the Separation Date and that was provided or made available to BMS or any BMS Group Person in connection with the Services. Any such Information or property that BMS or the relevant BMS Group Persons cannot return to MJN or the relevant MJN Group Persons but can be destroyed, will be destroyed by BMS or the relevant BMS Group Persons as soon as practicable after the Termination Date.
Return of Information
SECTION 3. .
Payments; Other BMS Covenants
(a) . BMS will notify MJN of the maximum amount of after-tax (including withholding tax) BMS Subsidiary Cash (the "") that BMS can cause BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to distribute to its direct parent as frequently as such distributions are permitted by applicable law (each such notice being the "" and the date of such notice being the ""). The Maximum Distribution Amount will be proportional to the maximum amount BMS can cause BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to distribute to its direct parent in respect of the BMS Business. The Maximum Distribution Amount Notice will specify that the date on which BMS will cause up to the Maximum Distribution Amount to be distributed by BMS Subsidiary to BMS Subsidiary Shareholder if MJN so instructs BMS (the "") will be ten Business Days after the Maximum Distribution Amount Notice Date. MJN will have up to five Business Days following the Maximum Distribution Amount Notice Date to instruct BMS to cause BMS Subsidiary to distribute to BMS Subsidiary Shareholder an amount of BMS Subsidiary Cash that on an after-tax (including withholding tax) basis will not exceed the Maximum Distribution Amount (such amount being the "" and such instruction being the ""). If MJN provides the Actual Distribution Amount Instruction
BMS Payments
Maximum Distribution Amount
Maximum Distribution Amount Notice
Maximum Distribution Amount Notice Date
Initial Distribution Date
Actual Distribution Amount
Actual Distribution Amount Instruction
 
specifying the Actual Distribution Amount to BMS within five Business Days following the Maximum Distribution Amount Notice Date: (i) BMS will cause BMS Subsidiary to distribute the Actual Distribution Amount to BMS Subsidiary Shareholder on the Initial Distribution Date; (ii) MJN will become entitled to receive the after-tax (including withholding tax) Actual Distribution Amount (the "") from BMS on the Initial Distribution Date; (iii) BMS will have up to 30 days following the Initial Distribution Date to cause BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to (A) distribute the Net Actual Distribution Amount to its direct parent or (B) reinvest the Actual Distribution Amount in the BMS Business (the earlier to occur of (A) and (B) being the ""); and (iv) BMS will pay MJN on the BMS Payment Due Date an amount equal to the Net Actual Distribution Amount plus interest at the Specified Rate on the Net Actual Distribution Amount from the Initial Distribution Date to the BMS Payment Due Date.
Net Actual Distribution Amount
BMS Payment Due Date
(b) . MJN will notify BMS each time MJN wants BMS to cause BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to contribute cash to BMS Subsidiary in exchange for additional equity interest of BMS Subsidiary issued at a value to be agreed upon by the Parties acting reasonably (each such instance being the "" and the amount of such Contribution being the "") at least 30 days before the date BMS is to cause the Contribution to be made (the ""). MJN will pay BMS the Contribution Amount at least three Business Days before the Contribution Date. BMS will cause the Contribution to be made on the Contribution Date unless all consents required to effect the Contribution are not obtained by the Contribution Date, in which case on the first Business Day following receipt of all such consents (the ""). MJN will be entitled to interest at the Specified Interest Rate on any portion of the Contribution Amount not contributed by BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to BMS Subsidiary following the later of the Contribution Date and the Consent Date.
MJN Payments
Contribution
Contribution Amount
Contribution Date
Consent Date
(c) . From the Separation Date to the Termination Date, BMS (i) will cause BMS Subsidiary to operate in a manner consistent with MJN's global strategy, instruction and direction (subject to the Services being provided), and (ii) will not, and will cause BMS Subsidiary Shareholder not to, transfer, pledge or encumber any of the BMS Subsidiary Shares, except for transfers to (A) BMS Group Persons or (B) MJN or a MJN Group Person pursuant to Section 4 below.
Other BMS Covenants
SECTION 4. .
Transfer of BMS Subsidiary Shares
(a) . No later than three business days following the satisfaction of the conditions specified in Section 4(c), BMS shall cause (i) BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to sell, assign, transfer, convey and deliver to another Subsidiary of BMS designated by BMS (""), and (ii) New BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to purchase, acquire and accept from BMS Subsidiary Shareholder, all but not less than all of the BMS Subsidiary Shares in exchange for the Consideration (the ""). For the avoidance of
BMS Share Transfer
New BMS Subsidiary Shareholder
BMS Share Transfer
 
doubt, the conditions specified in Section 4(c)(i) shall include the receipt of all approvals of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, Shanghai Branch, required for the irrevocable release of the Consideration paid by New BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to the BMS Subsidiary Shareholder's special foreign exchange account.
(b) . No later than five Business Days in New York City and Singapore following the consummation of the BMS Share Transfer, BMS shall, or shall cause one or more of its Subsidiaries to, sell, assign, transfer, convey and deliver to MJN or a Subsidiary of MJN designated by MJN (""), and MJN shall, or shall cause MJN Subsidiary to, purchase, acquire and accept from BMS or one or more of its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, all but not less than all of the shares of New BMS Subsidiary Shareholder in exchange for the Consideration (the ""). In the event of a transfer of the shares of New BMS Subsidiary Shareholder to MJN Subsidiary, MJN shall remain jointly and severally liable for the payment of the Consideration.
MJN Share Transfer
MJN Subsidiary
MJN Share Transfer
(c) . The obligations of BMS pursuant to Sections 4(a) and 4(b) and the obligations of MJN pursuant to Sections 4(b) are subject to the satisfaction or waiver on or prior to the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby of the following conditions:
Conditions Precedent
(i) receipt of all consents, registrations, approvals, permits or authorizations ("") that may be required by any Governmental Authority, including any Taxing Authority, for the consummation of the BMS Share Transfer and the MJN Share Transfer;
Government Approvals
(ii) receipt of all consents of the Joint Venture Partners that may be required by the organizational documents of BMS Subsidiary, applicable law or any Governmental Authority, including any Taxing Authority; and
(iii) no applicable law or injunction enacted, entered, promulgated, enforced or issued by any Governmental Authority or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the BMS Share Transfer or the MJN Share Transfer shall be in effect.
(d) . The Parties agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the conditions specified in Section 4(c) are satisfied as promptly as practicable after the date of this Agreement.
Commercially Reasonable Efforts
SECTION 5. .
Termination
(a) . This Agreement will remain in effect until the earlier of (i) the effective date on which BMS and MJN agree in writing to terminate this Agreement, and (ii) the effective date of the MJN Share Transfer (the earlier date being the "").
Termination Date
Termination Date
 
(b) . MJN will cease, and cause the relevant MJN Group Persons to cease, providing the Services as of the Termination Date. The payments contemplated in Section 3 will cease effective as of the Termination Date. The net present value of such terminated payments, which the Parties agree will be exactly equal to the BMS Subsidiary Shares Transfer Value, will be paid by BMS to MJN on the date that the MJN Share Transfer is effected.
Termination of Services and Payments
(c) . BMS and MJN hereby agree to set off the payment required by Section 5(b) against the Consideration, and agree that such set-off shall irrevocably satisfy and extinguish both payment obligations, irrespective of whether the MJN Share Transfer is made to MJN or to MJN Subsidiary.
Set-Off of Payments
SECTION 6. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY IN THIS AGREEMENT, MJN MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT, WITH RESPECT TO THE SERVICES, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. MJN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE QUALITY, SUITABILITY OR ADEQUACY OF THE SERVICES FOR ANY PURPOSE OR USE.
DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES
(b) .
Limitation of Liability
(i) Each Party acknowledges and agrees that the obligations of the other Party hereunder are exclusively the obligations of such other Party and are not guaranteed directly or indirectly by such other Party's stockholders, members, managers, officers, directors, agents or any other Person. Except as otherwise specifically set forth in the Separation Agreement, and subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Party will look only to the other Party and not to any manager, director, officer, employee or agent for satisfaction of any claims, demands or causes of action for damages, injuries or losses sustained by any Party as a result of the other Party's action or inaction.
(ii) NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT TO THE CONTRARY, IN NO EVENT WILL EITHER PARTY OR ANY OTHER MEMBER OF THE BMS GROUP OR THE MJN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, COLLATERAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OR LOST PROFITS SUFFERED BY THE OTHER PARTY OR ANY OTHER MEMBER OF THE BMS GROUP OR THE MJN GROUP, HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, IN CONNECTION WITH ANY DAMAGES ARISING HEREUNDER.
 
(c) . Nothing contained in this Agreement will constitute or be construed to be or create a partnership or joint venture between the Parties, or any member of the BMS Group or the MJN Group, or any of their successors or assigns. The Parties understand and agree that this Agreement does not make either of them an agent or legal representative of the other for any purpose whatsoever. No Party is granted, by this Agreement or otherwise, any right or authority to assume or create any obligation or responsibilities, express or implied, on behalf of or in the name of any other Party, or to bind any other Party in any manner whatsoever. The Parties expressly acknowledge that MJN is an independent contractor with respect to BMS in all respects, including with respect to the provision of the Services.
No Partnership or Joint Venture; Independent Contractor
(d) . From time to time, each Party will use its commercially reasonable efforts to take or cause to be taken, at the cost and expense of the requesting Party, such further actions as may be reasonably necessary to consummate or implement the transactions contemplated hereby or to evidence such matters.
Further Assurances
(e) . Subject to the immediately following sentence of this Section 6(e), each Party, on behalf of itself and the other members of its Group, agrees to hold, and to cause its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives to hold, in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that applies to such Party's confidential and proprietary information pursuant to policies in effect as of the date hereof, all Information concerning the other Party and its Subsidiaries that is either in its possession (including Information in its possession prior to the date hereof) or furnished by the other Party, the other members of its Group, or their respective directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives at any time pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, and will not use any such Information other than for such purposes as will be expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder, except, in each case, to the extent that such Information has been (i) in the public domain through no fault of such Party or the other members of its Group or any of their respective directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives, (ii) later lawfully acquired from other sources by such Party (or any other member of its Group) which sources are not themselves bound by a confidentiality obligation, or (iii) independently generated without reference or prior access to any proprietary or confidential Information of the other Party. In the event that any Party or any other member of its Group either determines on the advice of its counsel that it is required to disclose any Information pursuant to applicable Law (including pursuant to any rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority) or receives any demand under lawful process or from any Governmental Authority to disclose or provide Information of the other Party (or another member of that other Party's Group) that is subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof, such Party will notify the other Party prior to disclosing or providing such Information and will cooperate at the expense of such other Party in seeking any reasonable protective arrangements (including by seeking confidential treatment of such Information)
Confidentiality
 
requested or required by such other Party. Subject to the foregoing, the Party that received such a request or determined that it is required to disclose Information may thereafter disclose or provide Information to the extent required by such Law (as so advised by counsel) or by lawful process or such Governmental Authority; , , that such Party provides the other Party upon request with a copy of the Information so disclosed.
provided
however
(f) . For all purposes of this Agreement: (i) the terms defined in Section 1 have the meanings assigned to them in Section 1(a) and include the plural as well as the singular; (ii) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned under generally accepted accounting principles; (iii) all references in this Agreement to designated "Sections" and other subdivisions are to the designated Sections and other subdivisions of the body of this Agreement; (iv) pronouns of either gender or neuter will include, as appropriate, the other pronoun forms; (v) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other subdivision; (vi) "or" is not exclusive; (vii) "including" and "includes" will be deemed to be followed by "but not limited to" and "but is not limited to", respectively; (viii) "may not" is not prohibitive and not permissive; (ix) "Party" or "Parties" refer to a party or the parties to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated; (x) any definition of, or reference to, any law, agreement, instrument or other document herein will be construed as referring to such law, agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified; and (xi) any definition of, or reference to, any statute will be construed as referring also to any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Interpretation
(g) . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights and obligations of the Parties may be assigned by any Party without the prior written consent of the other Party. Subject to the first sentence of this Section 6(g), this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and assigns and no other Person will have any right, obligation or benefit hereunder. Any attempted assignment or transfer in violation of this Section 6(g) will be void.
Assignment; No Third-Party Beneficiaries
(h) . This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, supersede all previous agreements, negotiations, discussions, writings, understandings, commitments and conversations with respect to such subject matter and there are no agreements or understandings between the Parties with respect to such subject matter other than those set forth or referred to herein or therein.
Entire Agreement
(i) . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which will be considered one and the same agreement, and will become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the Parties and delivered to the other Party. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic imaging means will be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts
 
(j) . Article VIII and Article XI (except Sections 11.01, 11.02, 11.03, 11.04, 11.15 and 11.17) of the Separation Agreement are incorporated herein by reference, , as if set forth herein.
Incorporation by Reference
mutatis
mutandis
(k) . Except as otherwise set forth herein, the Tax Matters Agreement embodies the entire understanding between the Parties relating to (i) the responsibility for the preparation and filing of Tax Returns, and (ii) the liability for Taxes, all or a portion of which may arise as a result of or in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Tax Matters
(l) . THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY WITHIN SUCH STATE.
GOVERNING LAW
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Parties has caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
Contents
 
 
 
Introduction and Highlights
 
Mead Johnson & Company, LLC (the "Company") has adopted the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Senior Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan") for eligible executive level employees of the Company and its participating subsidiaries and affiliates ("Participating Employers"). The purpose of the Plan is to provide equitable treatment for terminated eligible employees in concert with the Company's values and culture, provide financial support for such employees seeking new employment, and recognize such employees' contributions to the Company. The Company further believes that the Plan will aid the Company in attracting and retaining highly qualified executive level employees who are essential to its success.
This document sets out the Plan's provisions on its effective date, which is the date of the closing of the tender offer transaction pursuant to which MJN is split-off from Bristol Myers Squibb Company. The effectiveness of the Plan is conditioned upon the closing of such transaction. This document serves as the Plan's official document and summary plan description. It replaces and supersedes any plan document, summary, or description you may have previously received regarding the Company's severance benefits as they apply to you. The Glossary at the end of this document defines the capitalized terms used in the Plan or tells you where in this document to find a term's meaning. When you encounter a capitalized term, turn to the Glossary to find its meaning.
You are eligible to receive Severance Pay and other benefits under the Plan if (i) you meet the applicable eligibility criteria, (ii) your employment terminates under circumstances which entitle you to benefits, (iii) you timely sign and return an Executive Separation Agreement & General Release, and (iv) the Executive Separation Agreement & General Release has become effective as described below. The "Release Requirements" will be considered satisfied as of a specified date if the requirements set forth in paragraphs (iii) and (iv) are met as of such date.
Severance Pay is based on your position and is equal to a multiple of your base salary and you will also be entitled to payment of a pro-rated portion of your annual bonus. As set forth below, certain benefits coverage may continue to be available for a specified time period after your Termination Date. You will also be entitled to Basic Severance Pay equal to four weeks of your base salary without regard to whether you satisfy the Release Requirements.
 
Eligibility to Participate
 
You are eligible to participate in the Plan only if you are an active, full-time or part-time executive level employee of the Company or a Participating Employer with a salary grade of 18 or above and if you are either employed in the U.S. or a U.S. expatriate at a Company or Participating Employer location abroad.
Who Is Not Eligible to Participate
Notwithstanding any other Plan provision, you are not eligible to participate in the Plan and will be excluded from coverage under the Plan if you are:
 
 
 
You will not be entitled to Severance Pay or other benefits under the Plan (including Basic Severance Pay) if you are entitled to severance pay or benefits under the Executive Change in Control Severance Plan.
 
Eligibility for Severance Benefits
 
Right To Severance Payments And Benefits
You will be eligible to receive severance payments and benefits from the Company as set forth in the Severance Payments and Benefits Section of this Plan if your Termination Date occurs for any one or more of the following reasons:
 
 
To qualify for severance payments and benefits under the Plan upon voluntary termination for Good Reason, you must notify the Company in writing of termination for Good Reason, specifying the event constituting Good Reason, within 10 business days after the occurrence of the event that you believe constitutes Good Reason. Failure for any reason to give written notice of termination of employment for Good Reason in accordance with the foregoing will be deemed a waiver of the right to voluntarily terminate your employment for that Good Reason event. The Company will have a period of 30 days after receipt of your notice in which to cure the Good Reason. If the Good Reason is cured within this period, you will not be entitled to severance payments and benefits under the Plan. If the Company waives its right to cure or does not, within the 30 day period, cure the Good Reason, you will be entitled to severance payments and benefits under the Plan subject to the terms and conditions hereof, and your actual Termination Date will be determined in the sole discretion of the Company, but in no event will it be later than 30 calendar days from the date the Company waives its right to cure or the end of the 30-day period in which to cure the Good Reason, whichever is earlier.
Ineligibility for Severance Benefits
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, you will not be eligible for severance payments and benefits under the Plan if your Termination Date occurs by reason of any of the following:
Voluntary termination or voluntary retirement other than for Good Reason;
Mandatory retirement from employment in accordance with Company policy or statutory requirements;
Disability (as defined in the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan);
For Cause; or
Refusal to accept a transfer to a position with the Company or a Participating Employer, as applicable, for which you are qualified, as determined by the Company, by reason of your knowledge, training, and experience, provided that the transfer would not constitute Good Reason for a voluntary termination.
Cause
"Cause" means the following:
 
 
 
"Cause" will be interpreted by the Compensation Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion and such interpretation will be conclusive and binding on all parties.
Good Reason
"Good Reason" means the occurrence of any one or more of the following events which occur without your express written consent:
 
 
 
 
Severance Payments and Benefits
 
Under the Plan, you are eligible to receive Basic Severance Pay, Severance Pay and benefits as set forth below, provided you meet the eligibility criteria for severance payments and benefits described in the previous Section and this Section.
Cash Severance Payments
 
Basic Severance Pay
If you are eligible for severance benefits, as defined by the Plan, you will be entitled to Basic Severance Pay, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, equal to four weeks of your Base Salary. Basic Severance Pay are not subject to the Release Requirements and will be made at regular payroll intervals according to your pay schedule prior to your Termination Date.
Severance Benefits
If you are eligible for severance benefits, as defined by the Plan, you will be entitled to Severance Pay, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, determined in accordance with the following schedule:
 
 
Any Severance Pay to which you are entitled is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any Basic Severance Pay to which you may be entitled under the Plan.
Payments of Severance Pay will begin as of the date that is 60 days after your Termination Date (the "Payment Start Date") provided that the Release Requirements are satisfied as of such date. Thereafter, payment of Severance Pay will be made in substantially equal installments over the Severance Pay Period at regular payroll intervals according to your pay schedule prior to your Termination Date (unless otherwise required under Code Section 409A); provided, however that if you are entitled to Severance Pay and you obtain new employment after your Termination Date, all remaining payments of your Severance Pay, if any, will be paid to you in a lump sum payment to the extent that such remaining payments are not subject to Code Section 409A. You are required to notify the Company within 10 days after you obtain other employment after your Termination Date. Your "Severance Pay Period" shall mean the period of time included in the severance multiplier (i.e., 2 years for Tier 1, 18 months for Tier 2 and one year for Tier 3). If the Release Requirements are not satisfied as of the Payment Start Date, you will not receive any Severance Pay (or other benefits) under the Plan (other than Basic Severance Pay if you are entitled to such payments).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a payment of Basic Severance Pay or Severance Pay is a direct payment or a substitute or replacement for a right to payment that constitutes nonqualified deferred compensation within the meaning of Code Section 409A, including, to the extent applicable, amounts payable under another plan or agreement between the employee and the Company (the "Protected Amount") and if the Protected Amount is payable upon termination of employment, then the Basic Severance Pay and Severance Pay shall be paid at the same time and in the same form as the Protected Amount.
No Duplication of Benefits/No Substitution
Nothing in the Plan, a change in control plan or agreement, an offer letter or letter agreement from the Company or a Participating Employer, a prevailing practice of the Company or a Participating Employer, or any oral statement made by or on behalf of the Company or a Participating Employer will entitle you to receive duplicate benefits in connection with a voluntary or involuntary termination of employment. For example, you are not eligible for payments and benefits under both this Plan and a change in control letter agreement between you and the Company. The Company's (or any Participating Employer's) obligation of the Company to make payments under the Plan will be expressly conditioned upon you not receiving duplicate payments. In addition, if you are entitled to Severance Pay under the Plan, you will not receive payment of your Bonus for the year in which your Termination Date occurs (other than a pro-rated portion of the Bonus as described above).
To the extent that any amounts would otherwise be payable (or benefits would otherwise be provided) to an employee under another plan of the Company or a Participating Employer (or their affiliates) or an agreement with an employee and the Company or a Participating Employer (or their affiliates), including a change in control plan or agreement, an offer letter or letter agreement, or to the extent that an employee who is eligible for benefits under the Plan moves between Tiers, and to the extent that such other payments or benefits or the severance payments and benefits provided under this Plan are subject to Code Section 409A, the Plan shall be administered to ensure that no payment or benefit under the Plan will be (i) accelerated in violation of Code Section 409A or (ii) further deferred in violation of Code Section 409A.
Offset for U.S. Expatriates
The amount of the total Severance Pay to which you are entitled under the Plan will be reduced (but not below zero) for U.S. expatriates by a amount equal to any (i) payments of severance required to be paid by law in any country other than the U.S. and (ii) tax equalization payments due to the Company or a Participating Employer, and the payments and benefits under the Plan are conditioned upon any such payments required to be paid by law and/or tax equalization payments due being offset. Any offset shall be applied in a manner consistent with Code Section 409A to the extent that either the Severance Pay or the payments described in paragraphs (i) or (ii) next above are subject to Code Section 409A.
Debt owed to the Company or a Participating Employer
If you owe the Company or a Participating Employer money for any reason, the Company or Participating Employer may offset the amount of the debt from your Basic Severance Pay and/or Severance Pay to the extent permitted by law; provided, however, that, any such offset shall be applied in a manner consistent with Code Section 409A to the extent that the Basic Severance Pay or Severance Pay is subject to Code Section 409A.
 
Continuation of Employee Benefits/Special Benefits
 
During your Severance Pay Period (and from and after your Termination Date), you are not considered an employee of the Company or a Participating Employer for any purpose  including eligibility under any Company employee benefit plan. The following benefits, however, will continue to be available as outlined below
Health Care Plans
If you and your dependents were enrolled in the Company's medical and/or dental plan on your Termination Date, this coverage will continue until the end of the month in which you are no longer employed with the Company or a Participating Employer, as applicable. At termination of employment, you and your enrolled eligible dependents will be offered the opportunity to elect to continue your current plan coverage beyond the end of the month in which you are no longer employed with the Company under one of two options. The option that applies to you will depend upon whether or not the Release Requirements have been satisfied as of the Payment Start Date.
Option I applies to you if the Release Requirements are satisfied as of the Payment Start Date. Under Option I, your eligibility for Company subsidized medical and/or dental plan coverage will continue for you and your family until the earliest of (i) the end of your Severance Pay Period, (ii) the date you begin new employment, or (iii) the date that COBRA coverage would otherwise end by its terms, provided, in any case, that you timely elect COBRA continuation coverage for you and your family on the forms provided to you. (Option I continuation coverage is COBRA continuation coverage, but its cost is subsidized by the Company to the same extent as coverage for similarly situated active employees and their families from time to time.) Please remember that your eligible dependents will be able to continue their medical and/or dental coverage under Option I only if you are also entitled to continue coverage under this option.
Option II applies to you if the Release Requirements are not satisfied as of the Payment Start Date. Option II provides for the continuation of medical and/or dental plan coverage as required under COBRA. Under COBRA you are required to pay the full cost of coverage for you and your covered dependents plus a 2% administrative fee. The COBRA continuation period begins as of the first day following the month in which your Termination Date occurs. As with Option 1, you are only entitled to COBRA continuation coverage if you timely elect the coverage on forms provided to you.
If Option I applies to you, then after your Company-subsidized continuation coverage ends, you can continue COBRA coverage, if any. In any event, any medical and/or dental coverage that continues during your Severance Pay Period is also applied toward the maximum continuation period and does not extend the COBRA continuation coverage period.
Detailed information about the two benefit continuation options described above will be mailed to your home at the time of termination.
Note that if you are eligible for severance benefits but not eligible to retire
1
, you may qualify for the "Rule of 70" benefits under the group health plan. More information regarding this benefit is included in the summary plan description for the health plan.
Life Insurance
Your level of employee life insurance coverage as of your Termination Date will continue at the same level until the end of the month in which your Termination Date occurs. Thereafter, if the Release Requirements are satisfied by the Payment Start Date, Company-provided life insurance coverage equal to one times your Base Salary at your Termination Date will be continued until the earlier of (i) the end of your Severance Pay Period or (ii) the date you begin new employment.
 
 
 
If you are have survivor income coverage or dependent life insurance coverage under the Company's life insurance plan as of your Termination Date, that coverage will end on the last day of the month in which your Termination Date occurs. When your employment terminates, you may have the opportunity to elect to convert all or part of any terminating life insurance coverage to an individual policy with the insurer. Those conversion rights, if any, are determined under the terms of the life insurance plan.
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
You may continue to participate in the Company's employee assistance program (EAP) during the Severance Pay Period, as long as you remain eligible for benefits under the Company's medical plan. If you elect COBRA continuation coverage, you may continue to participate in the EAP. You will receive additional information regarding participation at the time of your termination.
Outplacement
You will be eligible for outplacement services with one of the Company's preferred providers in accordance with the Company's outplacement services that are in effect for employees at your level as of your Termination Date for up to 12 months following your Payment Start Date; provided, however, that no outplacement services will be provided unless the Release Requirements are satisfied as of your Payment Start Date.
Other Benefits
Accrued and unused vacation days (including banked vacation), long-term performance awards, vesting and exercising of stock options, vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units, and bonus payments will be determined in accordance with the applicable Company plans, programs and/or policies. All other benefits coverage and eligibility to participate in the Company's benefit plans will end as of your Termination Date except as otherwise expressly provided by the terms of the applicable benefit plans
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are entitled to Severance Pay under the Plan, you will not receive payment of any portion of your Bonus for the year in which your Termination Date occurs (other than a pro rated portion of the Bonus as described above); and
The benefits that will end include, but are not limited to:
Contributions to the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account;
Contributions to the Company's Retirement Savings Plan;
Earning additional service for vesting and benefit accrual purposes under the Company's Retirement Plan; and
Participation in the Company's disability plans.
 
Amendment and Plan Termination
 
The Company reserves the right to terminate or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time in the Company's sole discretion. The Company reserves the right to implement changes even if the changes have not been reprinted or substituted in this document.
 
Additional Plan Information
 
Employment Status
 
The Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, and nothing in the Plan provides or may be construed to provide that participation in the Plan is a guarantee of continued employment with the Company, a Participating Employer, or any of their respective affiliates.
Withholding of Taxes
 
The Company will withhold from any amounts payable under the Plan all Federal, state, local or other taxes that are legally required to be withheld from your severance payments.
No Effect on Other Benefits
 
Neither the provisions of this Plan nor the severance payments and benefits provided for under the Plan will reduce any amounts otherwise payable to you under any incentive, retirement, stock option, stock bonus, stock ownership, group insurance or other benefit plan.
Validity and Severability
 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of the Plan will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of the Plan, which will remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction will not invalidate that provision, or render it unenforceable, in any other jurisdiction.
Unfunded Obligation
 
All severance payments and benefits under the Plan constitute unfunded obligations of the Company and the Participating Employers. Severance payments will be made, as due, from the general funds of the Company or the Participating Employers. The Plan constitutes solely an unsecured promise by the Company and the Participating Employers to provide severance benefits to you to the extent provided in the Plan. For avoidance of doubt, any medical, dental or life insurance coverage to which you may be entitled under the Plan will be provided under other applicable employee benefit plans of the Company.
Type of Plan and Governing Law
 
This plan is designed to qualify as a severance pay arrangement within the meaning of Section 3(2)(B)(i) of ERISA and is intended to be excepted from the definitions of "employee pension benefit plan" and "pension plan" set forth under Section 3(2) of ERISA and is intended to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a "severance pay plan" within the meaning of the regulations published by the Secretary of Labor. The Plan and all rights under it will be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by Federal law, with the laws of the state of Illinois.
 
Section 409A
 
Exemption
It is intended that payments of Basic Severance Pay and Severance Pay under the Plan will be exempt from Code Section 409A to the extent payments (i) do not exceed two times the lesser of (1) the employee's total annual compensation based on the employee's annual rate of pay for the prior taxable year (adjusted for any increase that was expected to continue indefinitely) or (2) the limitation under Code Section 401(a)(17) for the year in which the employee has a separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A and Treasury regulation Section 1.409A-1(h) ($245,000 in 2010 (2x = $490,000)), and (ii) are paid in full no later than December 31 of the second year following a separation from service or to the extent that such payments otherwise fit within an exemption provided by Code Section 409A or applicable guidance. Similarly, other benefits provided under the Plan are intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to the extent an applicable exemption is applicable.
Specified Employees
In general, Code Section 409A prohibits certain payments of nonqualified deferred compensation (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) to "Specified Employees" (generally defined as an officer of the Company who is one of the top 50 highest paid employees as determined by the Company) within 6 months following the Specified Employee's separation from service. This rule does not apply to amounts which are exempt from the requirements of Code Section 409A. To comply with this rule and notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if any payment or benefit under the Plan is subject to Code Section 409A, and if such payment or benefit is to be paid or provided on account of the employee's Termination Date and if the employee is a Specified Employee (within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)) and if any such payment or benefit is required to be made or provided prior to the first day of the seventh month following the employee's Termination Date, such payment or benefit shall be delayed until the first day of the seventh month following the Executive's separation from service and shall at that time be paid on a lump sum (or, in the case of a non-cash benefit, shall be provided in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A). Any amount that would have been paid or provided during this six month period will be paid on the first business day of the seventh month following the separation from service, or, if earlier, the date of the individual's death.
Statement of Intent
To the fullest extent possible, amounts and other benefits payable under the Plan are intended to be exempt from the definition of "nonqualified deferred compensation" under Code Section 409A in accordance with one or more exemptions available under the final Treasury regulations promulgated under Code Section 409A. To the extent that any such amount or benefit is or becomes subject to Code Section 409A, this Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A with respect to those amounts or benefits so as to avoid the imposition of taxes and penalties. This Plan will be interpreted and administered to the extent possible in a manner consistent with the foregoing statement of intent.
If you notify the Company (specifying the reasons for your position) that you believe that any provision of this Plan or of any payment to be made or benefit granted under this Plan would cause you to incur any additional tax, penalty or interest under Code Section 409A and if the Company concurs, or if the Company (without any obligation whatsoever to do so) independently makes such a determination, the Company will, after consulting with you and to the extent permitted by law, reform the provision to try to comply with Code Section 409A or to be exempt from Code Section 409A to the extent possible without thereby creating other liability, including liability for any other Plan participant. The Company in its sole discretion may modify the timing of payments and benefits under the Plan for the sole purpose of exempting those payments and benefits from Code Section 409A. To the extent that any payment or benefit under the Plan is modified to comply with Code Section 409A or to be exempt from Code Section 409A, the modification or exemption will be made in good faith and will, to the maximum extent
 
reasonably possible, maintain the original intent and economic benefit to you and the Company of the applicable payment or benefit without violating the provisions of Code Section 409A.
In no event whatsoever will the Company be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on you by Code Section 409A or any damages for failing to comply with Code Section 409A.
Assignment
 
The Plan will inure to the benefit of and will be enforceable by your personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If you should die while any amount is still payable to you under the Plan had you continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan to your estate. Your rights under the Plan will not otherwise be transferable or subject to lien or attachment.
Other Benefits
 
Nothing in this document is intended to guarantee that benefit levels or costs will remain unchanged in the future in any other plan, program or arrangement of the Company. The Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries reserve the right to terminate, amend, modify, suspend, or discontinue any other plan, program or arrangement of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates in accordance with the terms of that plan, program or arrangement and applicable law.
Oral Statements
 
The provisions of this document supersede any oral statements made by any employee, officer, or Board member of the Company or any Participating Employer regarding eligibility, severance payments and benefits.
Successors and Assigns
 
This Plan will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns and will be binding upon and insure to the benefit of you and your legal representatives, heirs and legatees.
 
Administrative Information About Your Plan
 
Employer Identification Number
 
Mead Johnson & Company, LLC's employer identification number is 35-1140848.
Claim for Benefits
 
If you believe that you are entitled to payments and benefits under the Plan that are not provided to you, or you disagree with any other action taken by the Plan Administrator with respect to the Plan, then you may submit a claim to the Plan Administrator in writing. A claim must be made in writing and submitted within 6 months of your Termination Date. In the event you make a claim for benefits beyond 6 months of your Termination Date, then you are expressly precluded from receiving any severance payments and/or benefits under the Plan.
Claims Review Procedures
You will be notified in writing by the Plan Administrator if your claim under the Plan is denied.
If a claim for benefits under the Plan is denied in full or in part, you* may appeal the decision to the Plan Administrator.
To appeal a decision, you* must submit a written document through the U.S. Postal Service or other courier service appealing the denial of the claim within 60 days after you receive notice of the claim denial described above. You* may also include information or other documentation in support of your claim.
You* will be notified of a decision within 90 days (which may be extended to 180 days, if required) of the date your appeal is received. This notice will include the reasons for the denial and the specific provision(s) on which the denial is based, a description of any additional information needed to resubmit the claim, and an explanation of the claims review procedure. If the Plan Administrator requires an extension of time to respond to your appeal, you* will receive notice of the reason for the extension within the initial 90-day period and a date by which you can expect a decision.
If the original denial is upheld on first appeal, you* may request a review of this decision. You* may submit a written request for reconsideration to the Plan Administrator (as listed on the last page of this Section) within 60 days after receiving the denial.
You* can review all plan documents in preparing your appeal and you* may have a qualified person represent you* during the appeal process. Any documents or records that support your position must be submitted with your appeal letter.
The case will be reviewed, and you* will receive written notice of the decision within 60 days (which may be extended to 120 days, if required). The written notice will include the specific reasons for the decision and specific reference to the Plan provision(s) on which the decision is based.
Any decision on final appeal will be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. If the final appeal is denied, however, you will be advised of your right to file a claim in court. It is the Company's intent that in any challenge to a denial of benefits on final appeal under these procedures, the court of law or a professional arbitrator conducting the review will apply to a deferential ("arbitrary and capricious") standard and not a de novo review.
 
 
Legal Action
You may not bring a lawsuit to recover benefits under the Plan until you have exhausted the internal administrative process described above. No legal action may be commenced at all unless commenced no later than 1 year following the issuance of a final decision on the claim for benefits, or the expiration of the appeal decision period if no decision is issued. This one-year statute of limitations on suits for all benefits will apply in any forum where you may initiate such a suit.
Participating Employers
A complete list of Mead Johnson & Company, LLC affiliates, subsidiaries or divisions that participate in the Plan may be obtained from the Plan Administrator by written request. (See the chart at the end of this Section for the name and address of the Plan Administrator.)
Plan Administrator
 
The administration of the Plan is the responsibility of the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator has the discretionary authority and responsibility for, among other things, determining eligibility for benefits and construing and interpreting the terms of the Plan. In addition, the Plan Administrator has the authority, at its discretion, to delegate its responsibility to others. The chart at the end of this Section contains the name and address of the Plan Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and to the extent required by applicable law, the rules of any applicable securities exchange on which the shares of MJN common stock is traded or MJN's by-laws or articles of incorporation, the Plan will be administered by the MJN Board or the Compensation Committee.
 
Your Rights and Privileges Under ERISA
 
As a participant in the Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protection under Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). ERISA provides that you shall be entitled to:
Receive Information About Your Plan and Benefits
Examine, without charge, at the Company's offices and at other specified locations all documents governing the plan filed by the plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of documents governing the operation of the plan and updated summary plan description. The administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies.
Prudent Actions by Plan Fiduciaries
In addition to creating certain rights for you, ERISA imposes duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the employee benefit plan. The people who operate your plan, called "fiduciaries" of the plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of you and other plan participants and beneficiaries. No one, including your employer, or any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a welfare benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA.
Enforce Your Rights
If your claim for a welfare benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance, if you request a copy of plan documents or the latest annual report from the plan and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a Federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the administrator.
If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may file suit in a state or Federal court. In addition, if you disagree with the plan's decision or lack thereof concerning the qualified status of a medical child support order, you may file suit in a Federal court.
If it should happen that plan fiduciaries misuse the plan's money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a Federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you are successful, the court may order the person you sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.
Assistance with Your Questions
If you have any questions about your plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, or if you need assistance in obtaining documents from the Plan Administrator, you should contact the nearest office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210.
 
You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration at 1-866-444-EBSA (3272) or accessing their website at http://www.dol.gov/ebsa.
 
Other Administrative Facts
 
 
 
Glossary
 
It is important to know about the following terms as they apply to the Plan.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
Contents
 
 
Introduction and Highlights
 
Mead Johnson & Company, LLC (the "Company") has adopted the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Executive Change in Control Severance Plan (the "Plan") for eligible executive level employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates. The purpose of the Plan is to encourage eligible executives to remain employed by the Company and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates and to provide such eligible executives with additional protections in the event their employment is terminated in connection with a Change in Control. The Company further believes that the Plan will aid the Company in attracting and retaining highly qualified executive level employees who are essential to its success.
This document sets out the Plan's provisions on its "Effective Date" which is the date of the closing of the tender offer transaction pursuant to which MJN is split-off from Bristol Myers Squibb Company. The effectiveness of the Plan is conditioned upon the closing of such transaction. This document serves as the Plan's official document and summary plan description. It replaces and supersedes any plan document, summary, or description you may have previously received regarding the Company's severance benefits as they apply to you following a change in control, other than as described herein. The Glossary at the end of this document defines the capitalized terms used in the Plan or tells you where in this document to find a term's meaning. When you encounter a capitalized term, turn to the Glossary to find its meaning.
You are eligible to receive Severance Pay and other benefits under the Plan if (i) you are selected for participation in the Plan by the Compensation Committee (or its designee), (ii) your employment terminates in a Qualifying Termination, (iii) you timely sign and return an Executive Separation Agreement & General Release, and (iv) the Executive Separation Agreement & General Release has become effective as described below. The "Release Requirements" will be considered satisfied as of a specified date if the requirements set forth in paragraphs (iii) and (iv) are met as of such date.
Eligibility to Participate
 
You are eligible to participate in the Plan only if (and during the period that) your role for MJN is a Participating Executive Role.
Who Is Not Eligible to Participate
Notwithstanding any other Plan provision, you are not eligible to participate in the Plan and will be excluded from coverage under the Plan if you are an employee who is a party to an individual arrangement or a written employment agreement providing severance payments other than pursuant to the Plan. You will not be entitled to Severance Pay or other benefits under the Senior Executive Severance Plan if you are entitled to benefits under the Plan.
 
Eligibility for Severance Benefits
 
Right To Severance Payments And Benefits
You will be eligible to receive severance payments and benefits from the Company as set forth in the Severance Payments and Benefits Section of this Plan if your Termination Date occurs as the result of a Qualifying Termination. For purposes of the Plan, your Termination Date will be considered to have occurred as the result of a "Qualifying Termination" if your Termination Date occurs during the Protected Period for any one or more of the following reasons:
 
 
To qualify for severance payments and benefits under the Plan upon voluntary termination for Good Reason, you must notify the Company in writing of termination for Good Reason, specifying the event constituting Good Reason, within 90 days after you first become aware of the event that you believe constitutes Good Reason. Failure for any reason to give written notice of termination of employment for Good Reason in accordance with the foregoing will be deemed a waiver of the right to terminate your employment for that Good Reason event. The Company will have a period of 30 days after receipt of your notice in which to cure the Good Reason. If the Good Reason is cured within this period, you will not be entitled to severance payments and benefits under the Plan. If the Company waives its right to cure or does not, within the 30 day period, cure the Good Reason, you may terminate your employment for Good Reason within 30 days following the earlier of the date on which the Company waives its right to cure or the end of the cure period. If you do not terminate your employment within such 30 day period, you will waive your right to terminate your employment for that Good Reason event.
 
Ineligibility for Severance Benefits
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, you will not be eligible for severance payments and benefits under the Plan if your Termination Date occurs for any reason other than a Qualifying Termination, including if your Termination Date occurs as the result of any of the following:
Voluntary termination or voluntary retirement other than for Good Reason;
Mandatory retirement from employment in accordance with Company policy or statutory requirements;
Disability (as defined in the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan);
For Cause; or
Termination other than during the Protected Period.
Cause
"Cause" means the following
 
 
 
For purposes of paragraphs (A) and (B) next above, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company. "Cause" will be interpreted by the Compensation Committee (or its designee) in its sole discretion and such interpretation will be conclusive and binding on all parties.
Good Reason
"Good Reason" means the occurrence of any one or more of the following events which occur without your express written consent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in Control
For purposes of the Plan, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon the first to occur of any of the following:
(A) Any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) (a "Person") shall have become the direct or indirect beneficial owner of thirty percent (30%) or more of (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of MJN (the "Outstanding MJN Common Shares") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of MJN entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding MJN Voting Securities")(other than, in each case, in connection with a merger or consolidation as a result of which (1) MJN becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company, (2) the direct or indirect holders of the common stock and the voting securities of such holding company immediately following the transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Outstanding MJN Common Shares and the Outstanding MJN Voting Securities, as the case may be, immediately prior to the transaction, and (3) immediately following the transaction no Person is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of thirty percent (30%) or more of the common stock or the voting securities of such holding company);
(B) The consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, or similar transaction involving MJN or any of its subsidiaries, the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of MJN and its subsidiaries (taken as a whole), or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by MJN or any of its subsidiaries (each a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding MJN Common Shares and the Outstanding MJN Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of the then outstanding shares of common stock (or, for a non-corporate entity, equivalent securities) and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of members of the board of directors (or, for a non-corporate entity, equivalent governing body), as the case may be, of the entity surviving or resulting from such Business Combination (including an entity that, as a result of such transaction, owns all or substantially all of the common stock or the voting securities of MJN or all or substantially all of MJN's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding MJN Common Shares and the Outstanding MJN Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding MJN or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of MJN or such entity surviving or resulting
 
from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, thirty percent (30%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock (or, for a non-corporate entity, equivalent securities) of the entity surviving or resulting from such Business Combination (or any parent thereof) or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such entity (or any parent thereof) entitled to vote generally in the election of members of the board of directors (or, for a non-corporate entity, equivalent governing body) and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or, for a non-corporate entity, equivalent governing body) of the entity surviving or resulting from such Business Combination (or any parent thereof) were members of the MJN Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or action of the MJN Board providing for such Business Combination;
(C) The stockholders of MJN approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of MJN; or
(D) There shall have been a change in the composition of the MJN Board within a two (2) year period such that a majority of the MJN Board does not consist of directors who were serving at the beginning of such period together with directors whose initial nomination for election by MJN stockholders or, if earlier, initial appointment to the MJN Board was approved by the vote of two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were in office at the beginning of the two (2) year period together with the directors who were previously so approved (either by a specific vote of approval or by approval of MJN's proxy statement in which such person was named as a nominee for election as a director).
 
Severance Payments and Benefits
 
Cash Severance Payments
If your Termination Date occurs as the result of a Qualifying Termination, then, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, you will be entitled to a cash severance benefit ("Severance Pay") in accordance with the following:
 
Payments of Severance Pay will be made in a lump sum as of the date that is 60 days after your Termination Date (the "Payment Start Date") provided that the Release Requirements are satisfied as of such date. If the Release Requirements are not satisfied as of the Payment Start Date, you will not receive any Severance Pay (or other benefits) under the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a payment of Severance Pay is a direct payment or a substitute or replacement for a right to payment that constitutes nonqualified deferred compensation within the meaning of Code Section 409A, including, to the extent applicable, amounts payable under the Senior Executive Severance Plan or another plan or agreement between the employee and the Company (the "Protected Amount") and if the Protected Amount is payable upon termination of employment, and if a Change in Control does not constitute a change in control event within the meaning of Code Section 409A, then the Severance Pay shall be paid at the same time and in the same form as the Protected Amount.
No Duplication of Benefits/No Substitution
Nothing in the Plan, a change in control plan or agreement, an offer letter or letter agreement from the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, a prevailing practice of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any oral statement made by or on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates will entitle you to receive duplicate benefits in connection with a voluntary or involuntary termination of employment. For example, you are not eligible for payments and benefits under both this Plan and a change in control letter agreement between you and the Company. The Company's obligation to make payments under the Plan will be expressly conditioned upon you not receiving duplicate payments. In addition, if you are entitled to Severance Pay under the Plan, you will not receive payment of your Bonus for the year in which your Termination Date occurs.
To the extent that any amounts would otherwise be payable (or benefits would otherwise be provided) to an employee under another plan of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates or an agreement with an employee and the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including a change in control plan or agreement, an offer letter or letter agreement, or to the extent that an employee who is eligible for benefits under the Plan moves between Tiers, and to the extent that such other payments or benefits or the severance payments and benefits provided under this Plan are subject to Code Section 409A, the Plan shall be administered to ensure that no payment or benefit under the Plan will be (i) accelerated in violation of Code Section 409A or (ii) further deferred in violation of Code Section 409A.
 
Continuation of Employee Benefits/Special Benefits
 
During your Severance Pay Period (and from and after your Termination Date), you are not considered an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates for any purpose  including eligibility under any Company employee benefit plan. The following benefits, however, will continue to be available as outlined below:
Health Care Plans
If you and your dependents were enrolled in the Company's medical and/or dental plan on your Termination Date, this coverage will continue until the end of the month in which you are no longer employed with the Company. At termination of employment, you and your enrolled eligible dependents will be offered the opportunity to elect to continue your current plan coverage beyond the end of the month in which you are no longer employed with the Company under one of two options. The option that applies to you will depend upon whether or not the Release Requirements have been satisfied as of the Payment Start Date.
Option I applies to you if the Release Requirements are satisfied as of the Payment Start Date. Under Option I, your eligibility for Company subsidized medical and/or dental plan coverage will continue for you and your family until the earliest of (i) the end of your Severance Pay Period, (ii) the date you begin new employment, or (iii) the date that COBRA coverage would otherwise end by its terms, provided, in any case, that you timely elect COBRA continuation coverage for you and your family on the forms provided to you. (Option I continuation coverage is COBRA continuation coverage, but its cost is subsidized by the Company to the same extent as coverage for similarly situated active employees and their families from time to time.) Please remember that your eligible dependents will be able to continue their medical and/or dental coverage under Option I only if you are also entitled to continue coverage under this option.
Option II applies to you if the Release Requirements are not satisfied as of the Payment Start Date. Option II provides for the continuation of medical and/or dental plan coverage as required under COBRA. Under COBRA you are required to pay the full cost of coverage for you and your covered dependents plus a 2% administrative fee. The COBRA continuation period begins as of the first day following the month in which your Termination Date occurs. As with Option 1, you are only entitled to COBRA continuation coverage if you timely elect the coverage on forms provided to you.
If Option I applies to you, then after your Company-subsidized continuation coverage ends, you can continue COBRA coverage, if any. In any event, any medical and/or dental coverage that continues during your Severance Pay Period is also applied toward the maximum continuation period and does not extend the COBRA continuation coverage period.
Detailed information about the two benefit continuation options described above will be mailed to your home at the time of termination.
Note that if you are eligible for severance benefits but not eligible to retire
1
, you may qualify for the "Rule of 70" benefits under the group health plan. More information regarding this benefit is included in the summary plan description for the health plan.
 
 
Life Insurance
Your level of employee life insurance coverage as of your Termination Date will continue at the same level until the end of the month in which your Termination Date occurs. Thereafter, if the Release Requirements are satisfied by the Payment Start Date, Company-provided life insurance coverage equal to one times your Base Salary at your Termination Date will be continued until the earlier of (i) the end of your Severance Pay Period or (ii) the date you begin new employment.
If you are have survivor income coverage or dependent life insurance coverage under the Company's life insurance plan as of your Termination Date, that coverage will end on the last day of the month in which your Termination Date occurs. When your employment terminates, you may have the opportunity to elect to convert all or part of any terminating life insurance coverage to an individual policy with the insurer. Those conversion rights, if any, are determined under the terms of the life insurance plan.
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
You may continue to participate in the Company's employee assistance program (EAP) during the Severance Pay Period, as long as you remain eligible for benefits under the Company's medical plan. If you elect COBRA continuation coverage, you may continue to participate in the EAP. You will receive additional information regarding participation at the time of your termination.
Outplacement
You will be eligible for outplacement services in accordance with the Company's outplacement services that are in effect for employees at your level as of your Termination Date for up to 12 months following your Payment Start Date; provided, however, that no outplacement services will be provided unless the Release Requirements are satisfied as of your Payment Start Date.
Financial Planning Assistance
You will be eligible for financial planning assistance up to a maximum $15,000; provided, however, that no financial planning assistance will be provided unless the Release Requirements are satisfied as of your Payment Start Date. Any expenses that you incur for financial planning assistance must be incurred within the first twelve months following your Termination Date.
Expatriation/Repatriation Benefits
You will be entitled to expatriation and/or repatriation benefits in accordance with the Company's Expatriate policy for a period of three months following your Termination Date.
Supplemental Retirement Benefit
You will be entitled to a lump sum cash payment (the "Supplemental Retirement Benefit") in an amount equal to the difference between:
 
 
All determinations of your accrued benefit under the Retirement Plan and/or the benefit to which you would have been entitled under the Retirement Plan taking into account the foregoing
 
provisions shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Retirement Plan, including by application of any actuarial assumptions applicable under the Retirement Plan. The Supplemental Retirement Benefit will be made in a lump sum as of the date that is 60 days after the Payment Start Date provided that the Release Requirements are satisfied as of such date. If the Release Requirements are not satisfied as of the Payment Start Date, you will not receive the Supplemental Retirement Benefit (or Severance Pay or any other benefits) under the Plan.
Other Benefits
Accrued and unused vacation days (including banked vacation), long-term performance awards, vesting and exercising of stock options, vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units, and bonus payments will be determined in accordance with the applicable Company plans, programs and/or policies. All other benefits coverage and eligibility to participate in the Company's benefit plans will end as of your Termination Date except as otherwise expressly provided by the terms of the applicable benefit plans
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are entitled to Severance Pay under the Plan, you will not receive payment of any portion of your Bonus for the year in which your Termination Date occurs.
The benefits that will end include, but are not limited to:
Contributions to the Dependent Care Reimbursement Account;
Contributions to the Company's Retirement Savings Plan;
Earning additional service for vesting and benefit accrual purposes under the Company's Retirement Plan; and
Participation in the Company's disability plans.
 
Amendment and Plan Termination
 
The Company reserves the right to terminate or amend the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time in the Company's sole discretion. The Company reserves the right to implement changes even if the changes have not been reprinted or substituted in this document. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan may not be amended during the Protected Period in a manner that reduces payments or benefits to be provided to any person who was eligible to participate in the Plan on the date of a Change in Control.
 
Additional Plan Information
 
Employment Status
 
The Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, and nothing in the Plan provides or may be construed to provide that participation in the Plan is a guarantee of continued employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries of affiliates.
Withholding of Taxes
 
The Company will withhold from any amounts payable under the Plan all Federal, state, local or other taxes that are legally required to be withheld from your severance payments.
No Effect on Other Benefits
 
Neither the provisions of this Plan nor the severance payments and benefits provided for under the Plan will reduce any amounts otherwise payable to you under any incentive, retirement, stock option, stock bonus, stock ownership, group insurance or other benefit plan.
Validity and Severability
 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of the Plan will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of the Plan, which will remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction will not invalidate that provision, or render it unenforceable, in any other jurisdiction.
Unfunded Obligation
 
All severance payments and benefits under the Plan constitute unfunded obligations of the Company. Severance payments will be made, as due, from the general funds of the Company. The Plan constitutes solely an unsecured promise by the Company to provide severance benefits to you to the extent provided in the Plan. For avoidance of doubt, any medical, dental or life insurance coverage to which you may be entitled under the Plan will be provided under other applicable employee benefit plans of the Company.
Type of Plan and Governing Law
 
This plan is designed to qualify as a severance pay arrangement within the meaning of Section 3(2)(B)(i) of ERISA and is intended to be excepted from the definitions of "employee pension benefit plan" and "pension plan" set forth under Section 3(2) of ERISA and is intended to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a "severance pay plan" within the meaning of the regulations published by the Secretary of Labor. The Plan and all rights under it will be governed and construed in accordance with ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by Federal law, with the laws of the state of Illinois.
 
Section 409A
 
Exemption
It is intended that payments of Severance Pay under the Plan will be exempt from Code Section 409A to the extent payments (i) do not exceed two times the lesser of (1) the employee's total annual compensation based on the employee's annual rate of pay for the prior taxable year (adjusted for any increase that was expected to continue indefinitely) or (2) the limitation under Code Section 401(a)(17) for the year in which the employee has a separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A and Treasury regulation Section 1.409A-1(h) ($245,000 in 2010 (2x = $490,000)), and (ii) are paid in full no later than December 31 of the second year following a separation from service or to the extent that such payments otherwise fit within an exemption provided by Code Section 409A or applicable guidance. Similarly, other benefits provided under the Plan are intended to be exempt from Code Section 409A to the extent an exemption is applicable.
Specified Employees
In general, Code Section 409A prohibits certain payments of nonqualified deferred compensation (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) to "Specified Employees" (generally defined as an officer of the Company who is one of the top 50 highest paid employees as determined by the Company) within 6 months following the Specified Employee's separation from service. This rule does not apply to amounts which are exempt from the requirements of Code Section 409A. To comply with this rule and notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if any payment or benefit under the Plan is subject to Code Section 409A, and if such payment or benefit is to be paid or provided on account of the employee's Termination Date and if the employee is a Specified Employee (within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)) and if any such payment or benefit is required to be made or provided prior to the first day of the seventh month following the employee's Termination Date, such payment or benefit shall be delayed until the first day of the seventh month following the employee's separation from service and shall at that time be paid on a lump sum (or, in the case of a non-cash benefit, shall be provided in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A). Any amount that would have been paid or provided during this six month period will be paid on the first business day of the seventh month following the separation from service, or, if earlier, the date of the individual's death.
Statement of Intent
To the fullest extent possible, amounts and other benefits payable under the Plan are intended to be exempt from the definition of "nonqualified deferred compensation" under Code Section 409A in accordance with one or more exemptions available under the final Treasury regulations promulgated under Code Section 409A. To the extent that any such amount or benefit is or becomes subject to Code Section 409A, this Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A with respect to those amounts or benefits so as to avoid the imposition of taxes and penalties. This Plan will be interpreted and administered to the extent possible in a manner consistent with the foregoing statement of intent.
If you notify the Company (specifying the reasons for your position) that you believe that any provision of this Plan or of any payment to be made or benefit granted under this Plan would cause you to incur any additional tax, penalty or interest under Code Section 409A and if the Company concurs, or if the Company (without any obligation whatsoever to do so) independently makes such a determination, the Company will, after consulting with you and to the extent permitted by law, reform the provision to try to comply with Code Section 409A or to be exempt from Code Section 409A to the extent possible without thereby creating other liability, including liability for any other Plan participant. The Company in its sole discretion may modify the timing of payments and benefits under the Plan for the sole purpose of exempting those payments and
 
benefits from Code Section 409A. To the extent that any payment or benefit under the Plan is modified to comply with Code Section 409A or to be exempt from Code Section 409A, the modification or exemption will be made in good faith and will, to the maximum extent reasonably possible, maintain the original intent and economic benefit to you and the Company of the applicable payment or benefit without violating the provisions of Code Section 409A.
In no event whatsoever will the Company be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on you by Code Section 409A or any damages for failing to comply with Code Section 409A.
Assignment
 
The Plan will inure to the benefit of and will be enforceable by your personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If you should die while any amount is still payable to you under the Plan had you continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan to your estate. Your rights under the Plan will not otherwise be transferable or subject to lien or attachment.
Other Benefits
 
Nothing in this document is intended to guarantee that benefit levels or costs will remain unchanged in the future in any other plan, program or arrangement of the Company. The Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries reserve the right to terminate, amend, modify, suspend, or discontinue any other plan, program or arrangement of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates in accordance with the terms of that plan, program or arrangement and applicable law.
Oral Statements
 
The provisions of this document supersede any oral statements made by any employee, officer, or Board member of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates regarding eligibility, severance payments and benefits.
Successors and Assigns
 
This Plan will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns and will be binding upon and insure to the benefit of you and your legal representatives, heirs and legatees.
 
Administrative Information About Your Plan
 
Employer Identification Number
 
The Company's employer identification number is 35-1140848.
Claim for Benefits
 
If you believe that you are entitled to payments and benefits under the Plan that are not provided to you, or you disagree with any other action taken by the Plan Administrator with respect to the Plan, then you may submit a claim to the Plan Administrator in writing. A claim must be made in writing and submitted within 6 months of your Termination Date. In the event you make a claim for benefits beyond 6 months of your Termination Date, then you are expressly precluded from receiving any severance payments and/or benefits under the Plan.
Claims Review Procedures
You will be notified in writing by the Plan Administrator if your claim under the Plan is denied.
If a claim for benefits under the Plan is denied in full or in part, you* may appeal the decision to the Plan Administrator.
To appeal a decision, you* must submit a written document through the U.S. Postal Service or other courier service appealing the denial of the claim within 60 days after you receive notice of the claim denial described above. You* may also include information or other documentation in support of your claim.
You* will be notified of a decision within 90 days (which may be extended to 180 days, if required) of the date your appeal is received. This notice will include the reasons for the denial and the specific provision(s) on which the denial is based, a description of any additional information needed to resubmit the claim, and an explanation of the claims review procedure. If the Plan Administrator requires an extension of time to respond to your appeal, you* will receive notice of the reason for the extension within the initial 90-day period and a date by which you can expect a decision.
If the original denial is upheld on first appeal, you* may request a review of this decision. You* may submit a written request for reconsideration to the Plan Administrator (as listed on the last page of this Section) within 60 days after receiving the denial.
You* can review all plan documents in preparing your appeal and you* may have a qualified person represent you* during the appeal process. Any documents or records that support your position must be submitted with your appeal letter.
The case will be reviewed, and you* will receive written notice of the decision within 60 days (which may be extended to 120 days, if required). The written notice will include the specific reasons for the decision and specific reference to the Plan provision(s) on which the decision is based.
Any decision on final appeal will be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. If the final appeal is denied, however, you will be advised of your right to file a claim in court. It is the
 
 
 
Company's intent that in any challenge to a denial of benefits on final appeal under these procedures, the court of law or a professional arbitrator conducting the review will apply to a deferential ("arbitrary and capricious") standard and not a de novo review.
Legal Action
You may not bring a lawsuit to recover benefits under the Plan until you have exhausted the internal administrative process described above. No legal action may be commenced at all unless commenced no later than 1 year following the issuance of a final decision on the claim for benefits, or the expiration of the appeal decision period if no decision is issued. This one-year statute of limitations on suits for all benefits will apply in any forum where you may initiate such a suit.
Plan Administrator
 
The administration of the Plan is the responsibility of the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator has the discretionary authority and responsibility for, among other things, determining eligibility for benefits and construing and interpreting the terms of the Plan. In addition, the Plan Administrator has the authority, at its discretion, to delegate its responsibility to others. The chart at the end of this Section contains the name and address of the Plan Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and to the extent required by applicable law, the rules of any applicable securities exchange on which the shares of MJN common stock is traded or MJN's by-laws or articles of incorporation, the Plan will be administered by the MJN Board or the Compensation Committee.
 
Your Rights and Privileges Under ERISA
 
As a participant in the Plan, you are entitled to certain rights and protection under Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). ERISA provides that you shall be entitled to:
Receive Information About Your Plan and Benefits
Examine, without charge, at the Company's offices and at other specified locations all documents governing the plan filed by the plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of documents governing the operation of the plan and updated summary plan description. The administrator may make a reasonable charge for the copies.
Prudent Actions by Plan Fiduciaries
In addition to creating certain rights for you, ERISA imposes duties upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the employee benefit plan. The people who operate your plan, called "fiduciaries" of the plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interest of you and other plan participants and beneficiaries. No one, including your employer, or any other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a welfare benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA.
Enforce Your Rights
If your claim for a welfare benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules.
Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights. For instance, if you request a copy of plan documents or the latest annual report from the plan and do not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in a Federal court. In such a case, the court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because of reasons beyond the control of the administrator.
If you have a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may file suit in a state or Federal court. In addition, if you disagree with the plan's decision or lack thereof concerning the qualified status of a medical child support order, you may file suit in a Federal court.
If it should happen that plan fiduciaries misuse the plan's money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or you may file suit in a Federal court. The court will decide who should pay court costs and legal fees. If you are successful, the court may order the person you sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it finds your claim is frivolous.
Assistance with Your Questions
If you have any questions about your plan, you should contact the Plan Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, or if you need assistance in obtaining documents from the Plan Administrator, you should contact the nearest
 
office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210.
You may also obtain certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration at 1-866-444-EBSA (3272) or accessing their website at http://www.dol.gov/ebsa.
 
Other Administrative Facts
 
 
 
Glossary
 
It is important to know about the following terms as they apply to the Plan.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has granted to you the Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") specified in the summary of your grant that is found on the Smith Barney website (the "Grant Summary"). The Grant Summary is incorporated into this Restricted Stock Units Agreement (the "Agreement") and deemed to be a part hereof. The RSUs have been granted to you under Section 6(e) of the Mead Johnson Nutrition Company 2009 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
1.
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AWARD
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (the "Committee") has granted to you on the Award Date specified in the Grant Summary an Award of RSUs, as designated herein, subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan. Each RSU shall represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the RSU, one share of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company common stock ("Common Stock") (subject to any tax withholding as described in Section 4). RSUs include the right to receive Dividend Equivalents as specified in Section 5. The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company's future success, and to increase your proprietary interest in the Company. Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other than the rendering of future services to the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary.
2.
RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, RSUs shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the Restricted Period (as defined in Section 3(c) below). Vesting of the RSUs is conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary following the Award Date until the relevant vesting date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2. Assuming satisfaction of such employment conditions, the RSUs will become vested and nonforfeitable as follows: . In the event you attain age 65 while still an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary, all unvested RSUs held by you at least one year from the Award Date will become vested and non-forfeitable, and thereafter, so long as you remain an employee of the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary after attaining age 65, all other RSUs will become 100% vested one year from the Award Date.
[insert appropriate vesting schedule applicable to award]
(a) . During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your RSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the RSUs or your rights relating thereto.
Nontransferability
(b) . For purposes of this Award, the following terms shall have the meanings specified:
Certain Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of paragraphs (I) and (II) next above, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that you act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company.
"Cause" will be interpreted by the Committee in its sole discretion and such interpretation will be conclusive and binding on all parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a termination to qualify as a termination for Good Reason under this provision, you must notify the Company in writing of termination for Good Reason, specifying the event constituting Good Reason, within 10 business days after the occurrence of the event that you believe constitutes Good Reason. Failure for any reason to give written notice of termination for Good Reason in accordance with the foregoing will be deemed a waiver of the right to voluntarily terminate employment for that Good Reason event. The Company will have a period of 30 days after receipt of your notice in which to cure the Good Reason. If the Good Reason is cured within this period, you will not be entitled to terminate employment for Good Reason. If the Company waives its right to cure or does not, within the 30 day period, cure the Good Reason, you will be entitled to terminate employment for Good Reason and the actual termination date will be determined in the sole discretion of the Company, but in no event will it be later than 30 calendar days from the date the Company waives its right to cure or the end of the 30-day period in which to cure the Good Reason, whichever is earlier.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a termination to qualify as a termination for Good Reason under this provision, you must notify the Company in writing of termination for Good Reason, specifying the event constituting Good Reason, within 90 days after you first become aware of the event that you believe constitutes Good Reason. Failure for any reason to give written notice of termination of employment for Good Reason in accordance with the foregoing will be deemed a waiver of the right to terminate your employment for that Good Reason event. The Company will have a period of 30 days after receipt of your notice in which to cure the Good Reason. If the Good Reason is cured within this period, you will not be entitled to terminate your employment for Good Reason. If the Company waives its right to cure or does not, within the 30 day period, cure the Good Reason, you may terminate your employment for Good Reason within 30 days following the earlier of the date on which the Company waives its right to cure or the end of the cure period. If you do not terminate your employment within such 30 day period, you will waive your right to terminate your employment for that Good Reason event.
 
 
 
 
 
However, your failure to return to active service with the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary at the end of an approved leave of absence shall be deemed a Termination of Employment. During a leave of absence as defined in (ii) or (iii), although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary and not to have incurred a Termination of Employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify such leave period shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the RSUs. In such case, the vesting dates for unvested RSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence.
(c) . RSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the RSUs (i.e., upon vesting) by delivery of one share of Common Stock for each RSU being settled. Settlement of RSUs which directly or indirectly result from non-cash Dividend Equivalents on RSUs or adjustments to RSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of the granted RSU. Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of RSUs, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares issuable in settlement of the RSUs, including the right to vote the shares or receive actual dividends or other distributions on the underlying shares of Common Stock. (You are entitled to Dividend Equivalents, however.) Shares of stock issuable in settlement of RSUs shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine.
Time of Settlement
(d) . In the event of your Retirement or your death while employed by the Company prior to the end of the Restricted Period, you, or your estate, shall be deemed vested and entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted (taking into account RSUs previously vested), provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. The formula for determining the proportionate number of your RSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your Retirement or death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 2701 Patriot Blvd., Glenview, IL 60026. In the event of your death prior to the delivery of shares in settlement of RSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your RSUs shall be delivered to your estate upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your estate shall succeed to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death.
Retirement and Death
(e) . In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary (i.e., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the RSUs. Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not be deemed to have incurred a Termination
Disability
 
of Employment if you return to employment status, and (ii) if you do not return to employment status, you will be deemed to have incurred a Termination of Employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability pay plans of the Company, Affiliates and Subsidiaries, with such Termination of Employment treated for purposes of the RSUs as a Retirement, death, or voluntary Termination of Employment based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" or "Disabled" shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.
(f) . If, prior to the end of the Restricted Period and other than during the Protected Period, you have a Termination of Employment by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary for reasons other than for Cause or if you have a Termination of Employment for Good Reason, then, as of your termination date, you shall be deemed vested and entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire) a proportionate number of the total number of RSUs granted pursuant to this Award (taking into account RSUs previously vested). The formula for determining the proportionate number of your RSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your Termination of Employment in accordance with the preceding sentence is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 2701 Patriot Blvd., Glenview, IL 60026. If, prior to the end of the Restricted Period and during the Protected Period, you have a Termination of Employment by the Company or an Affiliates or Subsidiary for reasons other than for Cause or if you have a Termination of Employment for Good Reason, then, as of your termination date, you shall be deemed vested and entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire) all of the RSUs granted pursuant to this Award (to the extent not previously vested). If, in connection with the Change in Control, the RSUs would be cancelled or otherwise cease to be outstanding as the result of the Change in Control, the foregoing provisions shall apply as of the date of the Change in Control without regard to whether you terminate employment in connection with the Change in Control.
Other Terminations
(g) .
Other Terms
 
 
 
 
(h) . To the extent that any RSUs granted under this Agreement are subject to section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), nothing in Section 2(f) shall cause an acceleration of payment or a further deferral of payment in violation of section 409A or cause a violation of the rules relating to Specified Employees (as described in the Plan).
Section 409A
3.
FORFEITURE IN THE EVENT OF COMPETITION AND/OR SOLICITATION OR OTHER DETRIMENTAL ACTS
You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company and the grant of RSUs is sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, the restrictions imposed upon you by this Section 3.
(a) By accepting the RSUs, you expressly agree and covenant that during the Restricted Period and the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as defined below), you shall not, without the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly:
(i) own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one percent or less of the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange;
(ii) be actively connected with a Competitive Business by managing, operating, controlling, being an employee or consultant of (or accepting an offer to be an employee or consultant) or otherwise advising or assisting a Competitive Business in such a way that such connection might result in an increase in value or worth of any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate Subsidiary. You may, however, be actively connected with a Competitive Business after your employment with the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary terminates for any reason, so long as your connection to the business does not involve any product, technology or service that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary and the Company is provided written assurance of this fact from the Competing Company prior to your beginning such connection;
(iii) take any action that might divert any opportunity from the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary, or any of their respective successors or assigns (the "Related Parties") that is within the scope of the present or future operations or business of any Related Parties;
(iv) employ, solicit for employment, advise or recommend to any other person that they employ or solicit for employment or form an association with any person who is employed by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary or who has been employed by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary within one year of the date your employment with the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary ceased for any reason whatsoever;
 
(v) contact, call upon or solicit any customer of the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary, or attempt to divert or take away from the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary the business of any of its customers;
(vi) contact, call upon or solicit any prospective customer of the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary that you became aware of or were introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary, or otherwise divert or take away from the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary the business of any prospective customer of the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary; or
(vii) engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the Company's Code of Conduct, securities trading policy and other policies.
(b) . If the Committee determines that you have violated any provisions of Section 3(a) above during the Restricted Period or the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period, then you agree and covenant that:
Forfeiture
(i) any unvested portion of the RSUs shall be immediately rescinded;
(ii) you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the RSUs as of the date of such determination; and
(iii) if any part of the RSUs vests within the 12-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(a) above (or following the date of any such violation), upon the Company's demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company's Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such RSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares).
(c) . For purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
(i) The Company, Affiliates and Subsidiaries directly advertise and solicit business from customers wherever they may be found and their business is thus worldwide in scope. Therefore, "" means any person or entity that engages in any business activity that competes with the Company's, Affiliate's or Subsidiary's business in any way, in any geographic area in which the Company, Affiliate or Subsidiary engages in business, including, without limitation, any state in the United States in which the Company, Affiliate or Subsidiary sells or offers to sell its products from time to time.
Competitive Business
(ii) "" means the period during which you are employed by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary and twelve months following the date that you cease to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate or Subsidiary for any reason whatsoever.
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period
(iii) "" means, with respect to each RSU, the period from the Award Date until the date such RSU becomes vested and non-forfeitable.
Restricted Period
 
(d) . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by the provisions of this Section 3 are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company, Affiliates and Subsidiaries. In the event that all or any part of this Section 3 is held to be unenforceable or invalid, the remaining parts of this Section 3 and this Agreement shall nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid portions were not a part of this Agreement. If any one of the provisions in this Section 3 is held to be excessively broad as to period, scope and geographic area, any such provision shall be construed by limiting it to the extent necessary to be enforceable under applicable law.
Severability
(e) . You acknowledge that breach by you of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to the Company, Affiliates and Subsidiaries, and that in the event of such breach, the Company shall have, in addition to monetary damages and other remedies at law, the right to an injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief to prevent violations of your obligations hereunder.
Additional Remedies
4.
TAXES
At such time as the Company is required to withhold taxes with respect to the RSUs, or at an earlier date as determined by the Company, you shall make remittance to the Company of an amount sufficient to cover such taxes or make such other arrangement regarding payments of such taxes as are satisfactory to the Committee. The Company, Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct such amount from any payment of any kind otherwise due to you, including by means of mandatory withholding of shares deliverable in settlement of your RSUs to satisfy the mandatory tax withholding requirements. Prior to settlement of the RSUs, the Dividend Equivalents payable to you will be compensation (wages) for tax purposes and will be included on your W-2 form. The Company will be required to withhold applicable taxes on such Dividend Equivalents. The Company may deduct such taxes either from the gross Dividend Equivalents payable on such RSUs or from any other cash payments to be made to you or on your behalf or may require you to make prompt remittance to the Company of such tax amounts. Any cash payment to you under Section 5 of the Agreement will be included in your W-2 form as compensation and subject to applicable tax withholding.
5.
DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS AND ADJUSTMENTS
(a) Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or credited on RSUs (other than RSUs that, at the relevant record date, previously have been settled or forfeited) as follows, except that the Committee may specify an alternative treatment from that specified in (i), (ii), or (iii) below for any dividend or distribution:
(i) . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of cash, then a cash amount shall be paid to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution multiplied by the amount of cash actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date.
Cash Dividends
 
(ii) . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of property other than shares, then a number of additional RSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution multiplied by the Fair Market Value of such property actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date, divided by the Fair Market Value of a share at such payment date.
Non-Share Dividends
(iii) . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of additional shares, or there occurs a forward split of Common Stock, then a number of additional RSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution or forward split equal to the number of RSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution or split multiplied by the number of additional shares actually paid as a dividend or distribution or issued in such split in respect of each outstanding share of Common Stock.
Common Stock Dividends and Splits
(b) The number of your RSUs and other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to RSUs, to reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Section 11(c) of the Plan or any other "equity restructuring" as defined in FAS 123R, taking into account any RSUs credited to you in connection with such event under Section 5(a).
6.
EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS
In no event shall the value, at any time, of the RSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.
7.
RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT
Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate or subsidiary or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary or affect in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.
8.
ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS
The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, you, and all interested parties. Any provision for distribution in settlement of your RSUs and other obligations hereunder shall be by means of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against, any specific assets of the Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary. You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company.
 
9.
AMENDMENT
This Agreement shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date without your written consent.
10.
SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY
The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any one provision shall have no effect on the remaining provisions.
11.
GOVERNING LAW
This Agreement shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of Delaware.
12.
SUCCESSORS
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties.
13.
DATA PRIVACY
By entering into this agreement, you (i) authorize the Company, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any Affiliate or Subsidiary such information and data as the Company or any such Affiliates or Subsidiary shall request in order to facilitate the grant of RSUs and the administration of the Plan; (ii) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorize the Company to store and transmit such information in electronic form.
14.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER
This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company. Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform.
 
 
I have read this Agreement in its entirety. I understand that this Award has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, and it is expected that I will retain the stock I receive upon the vesting of this Award consistent with the Company's share retention guidelines. I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company's policy regulating trading by employees. In accepting this Award, I hereby agree that Smith Barney, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may provide the Company with any and all account information necessary to monitor my compliance with the Company's Share Retention Policy and other applicable policies.
I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement.
 


