FILE:MJN/MJN-8K-20091217122752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 16, 2009, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (the "Company") and Mead Johnson & Company ("MJC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Third Amendment (the "Third Amendment") to the Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of February 17, 2009 (as amended, the "Revolving Credit Agreement") among the Company, MJC, various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. The Third Amendment provided for, among other things, the release of MJC as a guarantor of the Company's obligations under the Revolving Credit Agreement. As a result, MJC is no longer an obligor under the Revolving Credit Agreement.
As provided in the Indenture dated as of November 1, 2009 (the "Base Indenture") by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 5, 2009 (the Base Indenture, as so supplemented by such Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), the release of MJC from its obligations under the Revolving Credit Agreement resulted in the termination of MJC's guarantee of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.50% Notes due 2014, $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.90% Notes due 2019 and $300 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.90% Notes due 2039, which in each case were issued under the Indenture on November 5, 2009.
After giving effect to the Third Amendment, the Revolving Credit Agreement provides that if the corporate credit rating of the Company is no longer (a) at least BBB- by Standard & Poor's Ratings Service or (b) at least Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., then MJC shall automatically be deemed to guarantee the obligations of the Company and any other borrowers under the Revolving Credit Agreement.
The description of the Third Amendment set forth above is a summary only, is not necessarily complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full and complete terms contained in the Third Amendment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 17, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Third Amendment dated as of December 16, 2009 (this "") relates to the Three Year Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated as of February 17, 2009 (as previously amended, the "") among MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION COMPANY (""), MEAD JOHNSON & COMPANY (""), various lenders and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as administrative agent. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Amendment
Credit Agreement
Holdings
MJC
WHEREAS, pursuant to the First Amendment and Consent dated as of November 5, 2009 (the "") among Holdings, MJC, the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent, (i) Holdings became a Borrower under the Credit Agreement (succeeding to all rights and obligations previously held by MJC in its capacity as a Borrower thereunder) and (ii) MJC became an Original Guarantor under the Credit Agreement;
First Amendment
WHEREAS, Holdings has requested that the Lenders release MJC from its obligations as an Original Guarantor; and
WHEREAS, concurrently with such release, MJC shall be released from its guarantee of the obligations of Holdings under the Private Placement Notes (as defined in the First Amendment);
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
. The Lenders agree that, concurrently with the effectiveness hereof pursuant to , MJC shall be released from its obligations as an Original Guarantor under the Credit Agreement and shall no longer be a guarantor of the obligations of Holdings or any Subsidiary Borrower under or in connection with the Credit Agreement; , that if at any time the corporate credit rating of Holdings is no longer (i) at least BBB- by Standard & Poor's Ratings Service or (ii) at least Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., then MJC shall guarantee (and shall be deemed to guarantee) the Borrower Obligations of all of the Borrowers in full as an Original Guarantor and MJC's obligations as an Original Guarantor shall be automatically reinstated without the need for any further action. The Lenders agree that the Administrative Agent may, and direct the Administrative Agent to, execute and deliver such documents as Holdings or MJC may reasonably request to evidence such release and the termination of MJC's obligations as an Original Guarantor.
Section 1
RELEASE
Section 4
provided
. In furtherance of above, the parties hereto agree that concurrently with the effectiveness hereof, the Credit Agreement shall be amended as set forth in and .
Section 2
AMENDMENTS
Section 1
Sections 2.1
2.2
2.1 . The definitions of "Guarantor" and "Original Guarantors" in Section 1.1 are amended in their entirety to read as follows, respectively:
Amended Definitions
"" shall mean the collective reference to Holdings and the Subsidiary Guarantors.
Guarantor
"" shall mean (i) with respect to the obligations of any Borrowing Subsidiary, Holdings, and (ii) under the circumstances described in the Third Amendment to this Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2009, the Company.
Original Guarantors
2.2 . (a) Section 5.15(a) is amended by (x) deleting "and (iii)" where it appears therein and substituting ", (iii)" therefor; and (y) inserting the following immediately before the period at the end thereof:
Amendment to Restrictive Agreements Covenant
and (iv) customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other agreements entered in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices.
(b) Section 5.15(b)(iii) is amended by (x) deleting "and (F)" where it appears therein and substituting ", (F)" therefor; and (y) inserting the following immediately before the period at the end thereof:
and (G) customary non-assignment provisions arising in connection with any acquisition agreement.
. Holdings and MJC represent and warrant to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that (a) the representations and warranties set forth in Article III of the Credit Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on the date hereof, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties were true and correct as of such earlier date and (b) concurrently with the effectiveness hereof pursuant to , MJC's guaranty of the obligations of Holdings under the Private Placement Notes shall terminate and be of no further force or effect.
Section 3
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
Section 4
. This Amendment shall become effective when the Administrative Agent has received counterparts hereof signed by Holdings, MJC and all Lenders.
Section 4
EFFECTIVENESS
.
Section 5
MISCELLANEOUS
5.1 . Except to the extent expressly set forth herein, the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents remain in full force and effect and are ratified, approved and confirmed in all respects. After the effectiveness of this Amendment, all references in the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to "Credit Agreement" or similar terms shall refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
Continuing Effectiveness
5.2 . Holdings agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, an amendment fee equal to 0.03% of such Lender's outstanding Commitment, which amendment fee shall be payable on the date this Amendment becomes effective.
Fees
5.3 . This Amendment may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original but all of which taken together shall constitute but one
Counterparts
 
contract. A counterpart hereof, or signature page hereto, delivered to the Administrative Agent by facsimile or e-mail shall be effective as delivery of an original manually-signed counterpart.
5.4 . The provisions of Sections , , and of the Credit Agreement are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein, .
Incorporation by Reference
8.5
8.11
8.13
8.14
mutatis
mutandis
5.5 .
Governing Law
THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed this Amendment as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


