FILE:MJN/MJN-8K-20100513130833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (the "Company"), regarding the filling of vacancies on the Company's board of directors (the "Board"), Ms. Kimberly A. Casiano and Ms. Anna C. Catalano were appointed to the Board immediately prior to the Company's annual meeting of stockholders on May 11, 2010 (the "Annual Meeting"). Mmes. Casiano and Catalano and the seven other director nominees were thereafter elected by holders of the Company's common stock (the "Stockholders") to a full term as described below in Item 5.07. Upon their election to the Board, Ms. Casiano was appointed to each of the Board's Audit Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Ms. Catalano was appointed to each of the Board's Compensation and Management Development Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. In addition, upon their election to the Board, Mmes. Casiano and Catalano each entered into the standard compensatory arrangements for non-employee directors described in the Company's proxy statement for the Annual Meeting.
 
The Company held its Annual Meeting on May 11, 2010. Of the 204,516,132 shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote as of the March 22, 2010 record date, 180,600,176 shares were represented in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting. A summary of the final voting results for each of the matters voted upon by the Stockholders at the Annual Meeting is set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 13, 2010
 


