FILE:MJN/MJN-8K-20110621165233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 17, 2011, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (the ""), as borrower, and Mead Johnson & Company, LLC (""), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a five year syndicated revolving credit facility agreement (the "") with the financial institutions and other lenders named therein, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (""), as administrative agent. MJ&C entered into the Credit Facility as a guarantor to the extent provided therein and as more fully described below. The Credit Facility replaces the Company's syndicated three year revolving credit facility agreement dated as of February 17, 2009.
Company
MJ&C
Credit Facility
JPMCB
The Credit Facility is unsecured and repayable at maturity in June 2016, subject to annual extensions if sufficient lenders agree. The maximum amount of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit permitted at any one time under the Credit Facility is $500,000,000, which amount may be increased from time to time up to $750,000,000 at the request of the Company, subject to obtaining additional commitments and other customary conditions.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility will bear interest either at (a) the LIBO rate for specified interest periods plus a margin determined with reference to the Company's issuer credit rating (or its equivalent) or (b) a floating rate based upon JPMCB's prime rate, the Federal Funds rate or the one month LIBO rate plus, in each case, a margin determined with reference to the Company's issuer credit rating (or its equivalent).
The Company has guaranteed the obligations of all subsidiaries of the Company that may from time to time become borrowers under the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility provides that at any time the Company does not have a corporate credit rating of either (a) BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor's Ratings Service or (b) Baa3 or higher by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., MJ&C shall automatically be deemed to guarantee the obligations of the Company and any other borrowers under the Credit Facility.
The Credit Facility contains customary covenants, including covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries limiting liens, substantial asset sales and mergers. Most of these restrictions are subject to certain minimum thresholds and exceptions. The Credit Facility also contains the following financial covenants:
 
 
In addition, the Credit Facility has customary events of default, including (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods) payment default, failure to comply with covenants, material inaccuracy of representation or warranty, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, change of control, ERISA matters and cross-default to other debt agreements.
 
The information described above under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


