FILE:MJN/MJN-8K-20120615130844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02:
    
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On June 13, 2012, Stephen W. Golsby, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (the "Company"), notified the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") that he intends to retire by the Company's 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Subsequently, on June 14, 2012, the Board designated Peter Kasper Jakobsen, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, as CEO-elect.  Until Mr. Golsby's retirement, Mr. Jakobsen will continue in his role as Chief Operating Officer.  Upon Mr. Golsby's retirement, Mr. Jakobsen is expected to succeed Mr. Golsby as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Mr. Jakobsen, age 50, has been the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2012.  Mr. Jakobsen previously had been the Company's President, Americas from January 2009 through December 2011 and has been continuously employed by Mead Johnson since March 1998 in various capacities. From October 2006 to January 2009, he served as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific. From February 2004 to October 2006, Mr. Jakobsen served as Vice President, South Asia, and from June 2001 to June 2004, he served as General Manager, Philippines.
 
In connection with Mr. Jakobsen's designation as CEO-elect, on June 14, 2012, the Board voted to increase its size from ten to eleven members and appointed Mr. Jakobsen to the Board to fill the vacancy created by this increase, effective immediately.
 
A copy of the Company's press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01:  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
99.1
        
Press Release of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, dated June 15, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
GLENVIEW, Ill., June 15, 2012 
Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (MJN) announced today that its President and Chief Executive Officer, Steve Golsby, notified the Board of Directors of his intent to retire by the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.  Mr. Golsby informed the Board of his intentions at the Company's Board meeting and pledged his commitment to support the succession plan in the months ahead.
 
Subsequently, the Board of Directors unanimously selected Kasper Jakobsen, currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Mead Johnson Nutrition, as CEO-elect and appointed him to the MJN Board of Directors effective immediately.  Mr. Jakobsen is expected to succeed Mr. Golsby as Mead Johnson Nutrition President and CEO upon Mr. Golsby's retirement.  Kasper Jakobsen will continue in his role as Chief Operating Officer, and the current senior leadership structure and reporting relationships will remain in effect.
 
Chairman of the Board Jim Cornelius stated that, "Steve has been an extraordinary leader of the Mead Johnson Nutrition team since the Company's initial public offering (IPO) on the New York Stock Exchange in February 2009, and for many years prior to that, while MJN was a wholly owned subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb.  The Board is fully supportive of Mr. Golsby continuing to serve as a director on the MJN Board following his retirement.  The Board maintains robust succession plans at all senior levels of the organization contemplating such events.  As Steve's replacement, Kasper Jakobsen has the confidence of the full Board, reflecting his experience as a14-year veteran of Mead Johnson, including operational leadership responsibility for the businesses in Asia, North America and Latin America prior to becoming Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer earlier this year."
 
Commenting on his planned retirement, Mr. Golsby thanked the Board for the strong support and insightful guidance it has given him during his tenure as CEO, saying, "I feel privileged to have led Mead Johnson for over eight years and to have had the opportunity to manage its transformation into a high-performing public company and a global leader in its category. I know I will be leaving the Company in good hands, with an outstanding Board and talented global management team who can build upon the success we have achieved to date, and I look forward to having the opportunity to serve on the Mead Johnson Board following my retirement as CEO."
 
About Mead Johnson
 
Mead Johnson, a global leader in pediatric nutrition, develops, manufactures, markets and distributes more than 70 products in over 50 markets worldwide. The company's mission is to nourish the world's children for the best start in life. The Mead Johnson name has been associated with science-based pediatric nutrition products for over 100 years. The company's "Enfa" family of brands, including Enfamil(R) infant formula, is the world's leading brand franchise in pediatric nutrition.
 
For more information on the company, go to meadjohnson.com.
 
CONTACTS:
 
Media:
  Christopher Perille, (847) 832-2178, chris.perille@mjn.com
 
Investors:
  Kathy MacDonald, (847) 832-2182, kathy.macdonald@mjn.com


