FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20071025162641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
          Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
                   
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment
of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d)             
Effective October 24, 2007, the Registrant's Board of Directors elected William J. McDonald as a Director. Mr. McDonald was recommended to the Board by a third party search firm. See attached Press Release which contains biographical information about Mr. McDonald
                 The Board of Directors has determined that (i) Mr. McDonald is independent within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange's Director independence standards; and (ii) there are no material transactions involving Mr. McDonald and the Company.
                 Mr. McDonald has been appointed to the Organization & Compensation Committee of Humana.
                 Mr. McDonald will receive the director fees and benefits as described in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2007.
 
(d)      Exhibits:
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit No.                                          Description                                                                  
       99                                        Press Release
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:    October 25, 2007
Exhibit No.                                          Description                                                                  
       99                                        Press Release

r e l e a s e
n e w s
500 West Main Street P.O. Box 1438 Louisville, KY 40202 http://www.humana.com
when you need it most
HUMANA
Guidance
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Regina Nethery Humana Investor Relations (502) 580-3644 e-mail:  Rnethery@humana.com
or Tom Noland Humana Corporate Communications (502) 580-3674 e-mail:  Tnoland@humana.com
LOUISVILLE, KY - October 25, 2007 - Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that William J. McDonald has been elected as a member of the board of directors.
Mr. McDonald, 51, is executive vice president, brand management, for Capital One Financial Corporation in McLean, Va. Since joining Capital One in 1998, he has been instrumental in transforming the company from a little-known, single-line credit card-issuer to one of the nation's largest diversified financial services companies, with a widely admired brand.
Prior to joining Capital One, he served as chief marketing officer for Boston Chicken, Inc., where he developed award-winning advertising for the Boston Market and Boston Carver brands. He was also previously chief marketing officer for KFC and earlier served in marketing and branding leadership roles for Pizza Hut and PepsiCo.
"As Humana continues to build its brand favorability while leveraging its unique 'guidance' positioning, Bill will bring to the board a wealth of successful experience and expertise in marketing and related disciplines," said David A. Jones, Jr., Chairman of the Board.
Mr. McDonald's election brings the number of Humana directors to eight.
About Humana Inc.
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health benefits companies, with 11.3 million medical members. Humana offers a diversified portfolio of health insurance products and related services - through traditional and consumer-choice plans - to employer groups, government-sponsored plans, and individuals.
Over its 46-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at http://www.humana.com, including copies of:
Annual report to stockholders;
Securities and Exchange Commission filings;
Most recent investor conference presentation;
Quarterly earnings news releases;
Replay of most recent earnings release conference call;
Calendar of events (includes upcoming earnings conference call dates, times, and access number, as well as planned interaction with institutional investors);
Corporate Governance information.


