FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20070110153252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
          Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
Item 5.03.   Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
                  Effective January 4, 2007 the Board of Directors ("Board") of Humana Inc. ("Humana" or the "Company") approved amendments to the Company's Bylaws to adopt a majority vote standard for uncontested elections of directors. Under Article I, Section 1.6 of the Bylaws, a director nominee will be elected if the number of votes cast for the nominee exceeds the number of votes cast against the nominee. In contested elections, those in which a shareholder has nominated a person for election to the board, the voting standard will continue to be a plurality of votes cast.
                  In conjunction with the adoption of the majority vote standard, the Board also adopted a policy, to be incorporated into the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, to require the Board to nominate for election only nominees who agree that, after they are elected to the Board, they will tender an irrevocable resignation conditioned on: (a) the failure to achieve the required vote at any future meeting at which they face election; and (b) the Board's acceptance of their resignation following that election. The policy will also apply to the filling of vacancies by the Board. The Nominating & Governance Committee will submit a recommendation for prompt consideration by the Board whether to accept the resignation. Any Director whose resignation is under consideration will, in the ordinary course, abstain from participating in any decision regarding that resignation.
                  In connection with the adoption of the majority vote standard, the Board also amended Article I, Section 1.10 of the Bylaws to require stockholder nominees for director election to notify the Company whether or not such nominees intend to tender the same type of resignation required of the Board's director nominees.
                  Further amendments to the Bylaws in Sections 2.5, 2.8 and 2.9 of Article II, pertaining to Vacancies, Resignations, and Removal, respectively, were made to ensure consistency with the majority vote standard and director resignation policy, as adopted.
                  The foregoing description of the amendments to Humana's Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended Bylaws, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3(b) and incorporated herein by reference.
(d)      Exhibits:
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit No.                                          Description                                                                  
       3(b)                           Amendments to Humana Inc. Bylaws
 
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:    January 10, 2007
 
Exhibit No.                                          Description                                                                    
       3(b)                          Amendments to Humana Inc. Bylaws

.
Section 1.6 Voting
A nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at meeting of stockholders for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article I, Section 1.10 of these Bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or before the tenth day before the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee. All other quest ions submitted to stockholders shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast on such question. All voting shall be on a non-cumulative basis.
affirmatively or negatively
, except where otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or the Bylaws
.
Section 1.10 Stockholder Nominations
Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders called by the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing directors (i) by or at the direction of the Board or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 60 days no r more than 90 days prior to the scheduled date of the meeting, regardless of any postponement, deferral or adjournment of that meeting to a later date; provided, however, that if less than 70 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (i) the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or (ii) the day on which such public disclosure was made.
A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person on the date of such stockholder's notice (d) a statement whether such person, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at any future meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the Corporation's Board Practice on Director Elections which is part of the Corporate Governance Guidelines and (e) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute thereto (the "Exchange Act") (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder and any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such nominee(s), (b) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such stockholder on the date of such stockholder's notice and by any other stockholders known by such stockholder to be supporting such nominee(s) on the date of such stockholder's notice, (c) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; and (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 1.10, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
The provisions of this Section 1.10 shall be applicable to meetings of stockholders after the 1993 annual meeting of stockholders.
.
Section 2.5 Vacancies and Additional Directorships
If any vacancy shall occur among the directors by reason of death, resignation, or removal, or as the result of an increase in the number of directorships, the directors then in office shall continue to act and may fill any such vacancy by a vote of the directors then in office , though less than a quorum. If the whole board shall submit their resignations, said board, prior to their resignations, may elect their successors who will take office upon such resignations.
(including any directors who have submitted their resignation but whose resignation has not become effective)
the effectiveness of
.
Section 2.8 Resignation of Directors
Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or the President. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if no time is specified, upon receipt thereof by the Board of Directors or one of the above named officers; and, unless specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
, or upon the happening of an event,
or event
.
Section 2.9 Removal of Directors
At any special meeting of the stockholders, duly called as provided in these Bylaws, any director or directors may, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of all the shares of stock outstanding and entitled to vote for the election of directors, be removed from office, either with or without cause. At such meeting a successor or successors may be elected or if any such vacancy is not so filled, it may be filled by the directors as provided in Section 2.5.


