FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20080225201943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 25, 2008, Humana Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference, concerning the signing of a definitive agreement to purchase the Medicare Advantage contract for individual enrollees and related assets in Las Vegas, Nevada, from UnitedHealth Group as more fully described in the attached Press Release.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 25, 2008
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
LOUISVILLE, Kentucky  February 25, 2008  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) today announced it has signed a definitive agreement to purchase the Medicare Advantage contract and related assets associated with the Las Vegas, Nevada individual SecureHorizons Medicare Advantage HMO business of UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH). The transaction has been approved by the Department of Justice and is subject to regulatory approvals from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Nevada Division of Insurance.
The transaction is forecast to increase Humana's Medicare Advantage HMO membership by over 25,000 with members primarily residing in Clark and Nye counties in Nevada. Nearly 70% of Nevada's Medicare eligibles are located in these two counties. UnitedHealth Group and Humana have agreed to work together to ensure a seamless transition of this Medicare business and will notify affected members as details become available. Humana and UnitedHealth Group emphasized that post-divestiture, these members will continue to see the same health care
 
 
providers and receive the same benefits they currently have, and there will be no interruption in their health care coverage.
"Humana is pleased to significantly expand our presence in Nevada by serving over 25,000 new Las Vegas-area members," said Stefen Brueckner, vice president of senior products for Humana. "We are dedicated to engaging our health-care consumers through actionable information and guidance, and we look forward to welcoming these new members once this transaction is completed."
The transaction price of approximately $185 million in cash consideration is expected to be financed through a combination of cash and debt. Humana further commented that the transaction is not expected to significantly impact its guidance for 2008 diluted earnings per common share.
Humana Cautionary Statement
This news release contains statements and that are forward-looking. The forward-looking statements herein are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking items may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties described in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 11.5 million medical members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 47-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of
 
 
the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, UnitedHealth Group offers a broad spectrum of products and services through seven operating businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations, AmeriChoice, Uniprise, OptumHealth, Ingenix, and Prescription Solutions. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves approximately 70 million individuals nationwide.
 


