FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20080521164610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements for Certain Officers
On May 16, 2008, Humana Inc. (the "") entered into an amended and restated employment agreement ("") with Michael B. McCallister (""), pursuant to which Mr. McCallister will continue to serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Employment Agreement supersedes the employment agreement entered into between the Company and Mr. McCallister on September 13, 2000. The Employment Agreement has an initial term ending on December 31, 2010, which will be automatically renewed for successive periods of one year unless terminated by either party upon sixty days written notice. Pursuant to the Employment Agreement, Mr. McCallister will be paid an annual base salary of not less than $1,025,000 and will be eligible to participate in all benefit plans and programs made available by the Company to its employees, including participation in bonus and incentive compensation plans and programs on terms determined by the Organization & Compensation Committee.
Company
Employment Agreement
Mr. McCallister
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Employment Agreement.
If Mr. McCallister's employment is terminated (i) by the Company without Good Cause, (ii) by Mr. McCallister for Good Reason, (iii) by the Company at the end of the initial or any renewal term by reason of non-renewal, or (iv) due to Mr. McCallister's death or disability, the Company would pay to Mr. McCallister, at the same time bonuses are paid to other participants, a prorated bonus calculated on the basis of target performance in the case of termination by reason of death or disability and on the basis of actual performance in the case of all other terminations, plus, no later than thirty days after the termination date, a payment equal to his then current annual base salary plus bonus, calculated at one hundred percent of his base salary. Mr. McCallister would also be entitled to continued coverage for himself and his dependents under the Company's medical, accident and life insurance benefit plans for twelve months following termination upon the same terms and costs for similarly situated employees of the Company. In addition, any unvested restricted shares held by Mr. McCallister would become vested (with performance-based awards vesting at the target percentage in the case of termination by death or disability, and based on actual performance in the event of other terminations) and any unvested stock options held by Mr. McCallister would become fully vested (with performance-based stock options vesting at the target percentage) and would remain exercisable until the earlier of two years following the termination date or the expiration of the original term.
In the event that Mr. McCallister's employment is terminated by the Company without Good Cause or by Mr. McCallister for Good Reason under certain circumstances in anticipation of a Change in Control or within twenty-four months following a Change in Control, the Company would pay or provide to Mr. McCallister: (i) no later than thirty calendar days after the termination date, his base salary earned but not yet paid at the greater of the rate in effect at the Change in Control or the termination date (""), (ii) at the same time bonuses are paid to other participants, a prorated annual bonus for the fiscal year in which termination
Higher Base Salary
 
occurs based on actual performance, (iii) a lump-sum payment equal to two and one-half times the amount equal to the sum of (a) the Higher Base Salary plus (b) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year in which termination occurs and (iv) continuation, at the Company's expense, of all life, medical, dental, accidental death and dismemberment and disability insurance for Mr. McCallister and his dependents for two years following the termination date. In addition, to the extent that any restricted shares or stock options held by Mr. McCallister are unvested, such awards would become fully vested (with performance-based shares and awards vesting based on actual performance and with performance vested stock options vesting at the target percentage) and vested stock options would remain exercisable until the earlier of two years following the termination date or the expiration of the original term.
If Mr. McCallister's employment is terminated (i) by the Company for Good Cause, (ii) by Mr. McCallister's termination of the initial or any renewal term by reason of non-renewal, or (iii) by Mr. McCallister without Good Reason, the Company would pay to Mr. McCallister only his then current base salary accrued but unpaid through the termination date. In the event of a termination described in this paragraph, any restricted shares, unvested stock options or other equity-based award outstanding on the termination date would be forfeited.
Following Mr. McCallister's termination for any reason, he would be eligible for continuation of medical and dental insurance coverage pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). For the first twelve months of COBRA continuation coverage, the cost to Mr. McCallister would be an amount equal to the normal employee contribution rate and, thereafter, the cost to Mr. McCallister would be the cost of COBRA continuation coverage. During the COBRA continuation period, Mr. McCallister may elect any of the health coverages available to Company employees. Following the COBRA continuation period, Mr. McCallister may elect coverage for himself, his spouse and his dependents under any of the insured products offered the Company until the later of Mr. McCallister or his spouse, as applicable, turning 65 or becoming eligible for Medicare coverage.
Mr. McCallister is also entitled to a gross-up payment in the event he is subject to an excise tax pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code on "parachute payments" to which he is entitled to receive in connection with a Change in Control. The effect shall be to maintain Mr. McCallister in the same financial position that he would have been in had no tax under Section 4999 of the Code been imposed. Notwithstanding the above, in the event that a reduction to the payments to be made to Mr. McCallister of 10% or less, but not more than $200,000, would cause none of the payments to be "excess parachute payments," Mr. McCallister would not be entitled to a gross-up payment and the payments would be reduced to the extent necessary so that none of the payments shall be "excess parachute payments."
In addition, Mr. McCallister is subject to non-competition and non-solicitation covenants during his term of employment and for twelve months following his termination, as well as to a customary confidentiality covenant. Mr. McCallister is also entitled to be reimbursed for legal fees incurred in connection with the negotiation of the Employment Agreement in an amount not to exceed $25,000.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 21, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT amended and restated as of May 16, 2008 (this ""), by and between Humana Inc. (hereinafter the ""), a Delaware corporation having its principal place of business in Louisville, Kentucky, and Michael B. McCallister (hereinafter ""):
Agreement
Company
Employee
WHEREAS, the Company and Employee are parties to an employment agreement dated as of September 13, 2000 (the ""); and
Prior Employment Agreement
WHEREAS, the Company and Employee desire to amend and restate the Prior Employment Agreement to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations and interpretative guidance thereunder ("") and to make certain other changes.
Section 409A
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises the mutual covenants hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:
1. . The Company hereby employs Employee as President and Chief Executive Officer and Employee hereby agrees to serve the Company in such capacity.
Office
2. . Employee's employment pursuant to this Agreement shall be for the initial term commencing on the date hereof, and extending through December 31, 2010. The initial term shall be automatically renewed and extended upon the expiration thereof for successive periods of one (1) year until such time as the Employment Period shall terminate pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, or until the Company on the one hand, or Employee on the other hand, shall terminate the Employment Period by giving written notice to the other party on or before sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the initial or any renewal term. The renewal and extension of this Agreement shall also be referred to as the "." The effective date of Employee's termination of employment for whatever reason under this Agreement shall be the "."
Term of Employment
Employment Period
Termination Date
3. . During the Employment Period, Employee shall devote his entire business time and attention, except during reasonable vacation periods, to, and exert his best efforts to promote, the affairs of the Company, and shall render such services to the Company as may be required by the Board of Directors of the Company ("") consistent with his employment as Chief Executive Officer. Nothing herein contained shall preclude service by Employee on a reasonable number of boards of directors or trustees of other entities not engaged in any business competitive with the business of the Company, provided that Employee shall receive approval for any such board service in advance from the Company's Board.
Responsibilities
Board
4. . If, during the Employment Period, Employee should be prevented from performing his duties or fulfilling his responsibilities by reason of any incapacity or disability for a continuous period of six (6) months, then the Company's Board, in its sole and absolute discretion, may, based on the opinion of a qualified physician, consider such incapacity or disability to be total and may on ninety (90) days written notice to Employee terminate the Employment Period.
Incapacity
5. . The Employment Period shall automatically terminate upon the death of Employee.
Death
6. . During the Employment Period, Employee shall receive a base salary (hereinafter "") that shall be an annual amount of not less than One Million Twenty Five Thousand Dollars ($1,025,000) payable in accordance with the payroll practices of the Company. Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed and adjusted (upward but not downward) by action of the Compensation Committee of the Board from time to time; , , that Annual Base Salary may be adjusted downward in connection with an across the board reduction in base salary for all members of senior management.
Base Salary
Annual Base Salary
provided
however
7. . During the Employment Period, Employee shall be eligible for participation in all benefit plans and programs, including those for executive employees, made available by the Company to its respective employees and including participation in bonus and incentive compensation plans and programs on terms determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board.
Incentive and Benefit Plans and Programs
8. . The Company agrees to reimburse Employee for reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement not to exceed $25,000.
Legal Fees and Expenses
9. .
Severance Payments
 
 
(A) An amount equal to any unpaid current Annual Base Salary accrued through the Termination Date;
 
(B) His annual bonus for the fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs calculated (i) at the target percentage of his Annual Base Salary in the case of a termination by reason of death or disability or (ii) at the percentage earned under the applicable plan based on actual performance for such fiscal year in the case of any other termination, in any case, prorated for the portion of the fiscal year of the Company that has elapsed prior to the Termination Date and paid at the same time as bonuses are paid to other participants in the plan for such fiscal year; and
(C) One (1) times the sum of his then current Annual Base Salary and bonus, calculated at one hundred percent (100%) of his Annual Base Salary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. .
Termination After A Change in Control
 
 
(A) There is a material reduction in the Employee's title, authority or responsibilities, including reporting responsibilities;
(B) The Employee's Annual Base Salary is reduced;
(C) The Employee's office at which he is to perform his duties is relocated to a location more than thirty (30) miles from the location at which the Employee performed his duties prior to such relocation;
(D) The Company fails to continue in effect any incentive, bonus or other compensation plan in which the Employee participates, unless the Company substitutes a substantially equivalent benefit;
(E) The Company fails to continue in effect any employee benefit plan (including any medical, hospitalization, life insurance, dental or disability benefit plan in which the Employee participated) or any material fringe benefit or perquisite enjoyed by the Employee at the time of the Change in Control, unless the Company substitutes benefits which, in the aggregate, are substantially equivalent;
 
(F) The Company breaches any material provision of this Employment Agreement; or
(G) The Company fails to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor or assign of the Company to assume and agree to perform this Employment Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amount of any payment provided for in this Section 10 shall be offset by any lump sum cash payments due the Employee upon termination under any other provisions of this Agreement
11. .
Gross-Up Payment
 
 
 
12. .
Timing of Payments and Provision of Benefits
 
 
 
13. .
Confidential Information and Trade Secrets
 
 
 
 
14. .
Agreement Not To Compete and Agreement Not To Solicit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. . Employee specifically acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions set forth in Sections 13 and 14 hereof are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interest of the Company and that the Company would not have entered into this Agreement in the absence of such restrictions. Employee further acknowledges and agrees that any violation of the provisions of Sections 13 or 14 hereof will result in irreparable injury to the Company, that the remedy at law for any violation or threatened violation of such Sections will be inadequate and that in the event of any such breach, the Company, in addition to any other remedies or damages available to it at law or in equity, shall be entitled to temporary injunctive relief before trial from any court of competent jurisdiction as a matter of course, and to permanent injunctive relief without the necessity of proving actual damages.
Specific Enforcement
16. . Any notice required to be given by the Company hereunder to Employee shall be in proper form and signed by an officer or member of the Board. Until one party shall advise the other in writing to the contrary, notices shall be deemed delivered:
Notice
 
 
17. . This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company and the Employee, their respective heirs, successors and assigns.
Benefit
18. . If a judicial determination is made that any of the provisions of this Employment Agreement constitutes an unreasonable or otherwise unenforceable restriction against Employee, such provision shall be rendered void only to the extent that such judicial determination finds such provision to be unreasonable or otherwise unenforceable. Moreover, notwithstanding the fact that any provisions of this Employment Agreement are determined not to be specifically enforceable, the Company shall nevertheless be entitled to recover monetary damages as a result of the breach of such provision by Employee.
Severability
19. . This Employment Agreement shall not be construed as replacing or superseding any other agreements between the parties, all of which will be deemed to be in full force and effect unless specifically stated otherwise.
Other
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 


