FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20080312074107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humana Inc. (the "Company") announced today that it has revised its guidance for 2008 because of the updated projected financial results of its stand-alone Medicare Prescription Drug Plan (PDP) products for 2008.
A press release with revised guidance for 2008 was issued by Humana Inc. this morning, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Cautionary Statement
This filing contains statements that are forward-looking. The forward-looking items herein are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking items may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties described in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 12, 2008

Exhibit 99
 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
 
 Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) today announced that the company has revised its guidance for diluted earnings per common share (EPS) for the first quarter of 2008 (1Q08) and for the year ending December 31, 2008 (FY08). The revised guidance is the result of updated projections for the company's FY08 stand-alone PDP financial performance. The company's Medicare Advantage, Commercial and Military services businesses are not affected by this revision in earnings guidance.
LOUISVILLE, KY (March 12, 2008)
Humana now anticipates EPS for 1Q08 in the range of $0.44 to $0.46 versus its previous guidance of $0.80 to $0.85 with EPS for FY08 now projected to be in the range of $4.00 to $4.25 compared to previous guidance of $5.35 to $5.55.
The company's revised projections for its stand-alone PDPs' financial performance are based upon analysis of pharmacy claims through February 2008. Higher-than-anticipated claims volumes for the stand-alone PDPs year to date are reflective of a combination of factors including:
 
 
 
Conference Call & Virtual Slide Presentation
Humana will host a conference call, as well as a virtual slide presentation, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today to discuss this press release and the company's revised expectations for 2008 earnings. A live virtual presentation (audio with slides) may be accessed via Humana's Investor Relations page at www.humana.com. The company suggests web participants sign on approximately 15 minutes in advance of the call. The company also suggests web participants visit the site well in advance of the call to run a system test and to download any free software needed to view the presentation.
 
All parties interested in the audio-only portion of the conference call are invited to dial 888-625-7430. No password is required. The company suggests participants dial in approximately ten minutes in advance of the call. For those unable to participate in the live event, the virtual presentation archive may be accessed via the Historical Webcasts & Presentations section of the Investor Relations page at www.humana.com.
Cautionary Statement
This news release contains statements that are forward-looking. The forward-looking statements herein are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties described in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 11.5 million medical members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 47-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


