FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20080828090100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective August 27, 2008, the Registrant's Board of Directors elected Marissa T. Peterson as a Director. Ms. Peterson was recommended to the Board by a third party search firm. See attached Press Release which contains biographical information about Ms. Peterson.
(d)
The Board of Directors has determined that (i) Ms. Peterson is independent within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange's Director independence standards; and (ii) there are no material transactions involving Ms. Peterson and the Company.
Ms. Peterson has been appointed to the Organization & Compensation and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committees of Humana.
Ms. Peterson will receive the director fees and benefits as described in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 11, 2008.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 27, 2008
 

Exhibit 99
500 West Main Street
P.O. Box 1438
Louisville, KY 40202
http://www.humana.com
news release
For More Information Contact:
 
LOUISVILLE, KY  August 28, 2008  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that Marissa T. Peterson has been elected as a member of the board of directors.
Ms. Peterson, 46, was formerly executive vice president of worldwide operations, executive vice president of services and chief customer advocate for Sun Microsystems Inc. in Santa Clara, California. She retired in 2005 after 17 years with the company. Ms. Peterson currently serves on the board of directors for SUPERVALU INC., Ansell Limited, and the Lucile Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford and previously served on the board of trustees of Kettering University.
During her tenure at Sun Microsystems, Ms. Peterson developed and oversaw programs designed to help companies reduce the time, cost and risk of transforming their businesses by leveraging technology to architect, implement and maintain customers' network computing infrastructures. Additionally, she resolved critical customer satisfaction issues while helping to instill a "customer first" ethic throughout the company. Further, she guided supply chain, manufacturing
 
and logistics programs and established an industry leadership position for high quality and cost-effective product execution to a global customer base.
"Marissa's unique blend of operating and customer-focused leadership allows her to bring valuable insights to Humana's board of directors," said David A. Jones, Jr., Chairman of the Board. "She will be a dynamic addition to our group."
Prior to joining Sun Microsystems, Ms. Peterson worked as a management consultant at Booz, Allen and Hamilton and in various marketing, financial and engineering positions with Saturn Corporation and various General Motors divisions.
Ms. Peterson's election brings the number of Humana directors to nine.
About Humana Inc.
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 11.5 million medical members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 47-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


