FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20081119163207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 19, 2008, Humana Inc. issued a press release regarding its Investor Day conference to be held on November 20, 2008 in New York, NY. The Investor Day will include presentations by company executives regarding Humana's strategic, operational and financial progress as well as expectations for future performance. The Company will reaffirm its earnings guidance for the full years of 2008 and 2009.
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 19, 2008
 

Exhibit 99
 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  November 19, 2008  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that its leadership team will host an Investor Day in New York, NY on Thursday, November 20, 2008. The company's Investor Day will include presentations by company executives regarding Humana's strategic, operational and financial progress to date as well as expectations for future performance. Humana's event presentations are scheduled to begin at 8:00 a.m. eastern time. The agenda for the company's Investor Day is detailed below.
In conjunction with this event, the company is reiterating its guidance for diluted earnings per common share of $3.80 to $3.90 for the year ending December 31, 2008, and $5.90 to $6.10 for the year ending December 31, 2009. Additional earnings guidance points which may be discussed at the company's Investor Day are detailed below.
Humana invites the investing public and the media to listen to its Investor Day via the Internet. A live virtual presentation (audio with slides) will be available and may be accessed via Humana's Investor Relations page at . The company suggests Web participants sign on approximately 15 minutes in advance of the meeting. The company also suggests Web participants visit the site well in advance of the call to run a system test and to download any free software needed to view the presentation.
www.humana.com
 
Cautionary Statement
This news release contains forward-looking statements and earnings guidance points. The forward-looking statements herein are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties described in the following documents filed by Humana with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
 
 
 
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 11.7 million medical members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 47-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humana Inc.  Earnings Guidance Points as of November 20, 2008
 
 
 
 
 


