FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20080523094542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humana Inc. issued a Press Release today announcing that it has completed its acquisition of OSF Health Plans, Inc. See the attached Press Release for additional information.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 23, 2008
 

Exhibit 99
 
n e w s r e l e a s e
 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  May 23, 2008  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today it has completed its purchase of OSF HealthPlans, Inc., a Peoria, Ill.-based managed care company, from OSF Saint Francis, Inc.
"The addition of OSF HealthPlans allows Humana to leverage the best of each organization to offer innovative and affordable plans, a wide range of specialty products and industry-leading interactive tools that provide guidance and improve the health benefits experience for consumers," said Michael Kasper, president of Humana's Illinois market. "This also broadens our ability to serve multi-location employers in Illinois and strengthens Humana's statewide provider networks, creating a strong tie to the premier health system in the region  OSF Healthcare System."
As previously disclosed, the acquisition is not expected to have any effect on Humana's earnings guidance for 2008 diluted earnings per common share.
Humana Cautionary Statement
This news release contains statements that are forward-looking. The forward-looking statements herein are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking items may be significantly impacted by certain risks and
 
 
uncertainties described in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and Form 8-Ks for 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 11.4 million medical members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplementary benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 47-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at , including copies of:
http://www.humana.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


