FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20090223061553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 23, 2009, Humana Inc. issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 23, 2009
 

Exhibit 99
 
news release
For More Information Contact:
 
Tom Noland
Humana Corporate Communications
(502) 580-3674
E-mail:
Tnoland@humana.com
LOUISVILLE, KY  February 23, 2009  On Friday, February 20, 2009 after the stock market close, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced preliminary 2010 Medicare Advantage payment rates. CMS has invited public comment on these preliminary rates before releasing final rates on April 6, 2009.
Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) is closely analyzing all aspects of the CMS announcement because the company finds certain assumptions behind the preliminary 2010 rates to be unusual and inconsistent with decades of experience and with past CMS practice. In addition, the rates as announced would have a significant adverse impact on 2010 premiums and benefits for Medicare Advantage members if these rates become final.
In particular, the company is carefully examining:
 
 
 
 
Humana is joining with the entire health benefits industry in this analysis and plans to be part of a formal industry comment on the CMS announcement.
The company is also reiterating today its 2009 earnings per share guidance of $5.90 to $6.10.
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases like "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "likely will result," "estimates," "projects" or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of our SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein might not occur. There also may be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.6 million medical members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 48-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 


