FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20091210150022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Effective January 1, 2010, the Registrant's Board of Directors elected Dr. David B. Nash, M.D. as a Director. Dr. Nash was recommended to the Board of Directors by a third party search firm. See attached Press Release which contains biographical information about Dr. Nash.
The Board of Directors has determined that (i) Dr. Nash is independent within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange's Director independence standards; (ii) there was no arrangement or understanding between Dr. Nash and any other persons pursuant to which Dr. Nash was selected as a Director; and (iii) there are no material transactions involving Dr. Nash and the Company.
Dr. Nash has been appointed to the Audit Committee.
Dr. Nash will receive the director fees and benefits as described in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2009.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 10, 2009
 

Exhibit 99
 
news release
For More Information Contact:
 
LOUISVILLE, KY  December 10, 2009  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that David B. Nash, MD, MBA, has been elected as a member of the board of directors effective January 1, 2010.
Dr. Nash, 54, is the founding dean of the Jefferson School of Population Health, located on the campus of Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, Pa. He recently completed a decade of service as a member of the Board of Trustees of Catholic Healthcare Partners in Cincinnati, Ohio.
During his tenure at Thomas Jefferson University, Dr. Nash, a board-certified internist, founded the original Office of Health Policy, which later evolved into one of the first Departments of Health Policy in an American medical college. The Jefferson School of Population Health was established in 2008 and represents the first time a health-sciences university has incorporated programs for master's degrees in Public Health, Health Policy, Healthcare Quality and Safety and Chronic Care Management. Dr. Nash oversees the school's goal to produce a new type of healthcare leader for the future.
"David Nash brings to the board a unique and compelling set of attributes that will enhance Humana's ability to help people achieve lifelong well-being," said David A. Jones, Jr., chairman of the board. "He is a widely recognized innovator in an emerging medical discipline that unites population health, health policy, and individual health, and we look forward keenly to his contributions to Humana's next phase of growth and success."
Dr. Nash is internationally recognized for his work in outcomes management, medical staff development and quality-of-care improvement; his publications have appeared in more than 100 articles in major journals. He has received numerous prestigious professional awards during his tenure.
Dr. Nash's election brings the number of Humana directors to eleven.
About Humana Inc.
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.3 million medical members and approximately 7.3 million specialty-benefit members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 48-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
About the Jefferson School of Population Health
The Jefferson School of Population Health prepares leaders with global vision to develop, implement, and evaluate health policies and systems that improve the health of populations and thereby enhance the quality of life. The School fulfills this mission by providing exemplary academic programming, continuing education courses and conferences, and sustained research and consulting in areas of health policy, population health, healthcare quality and safety, and chronic care management. For further information, visit www.jefferson.edu/population_health.


