FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20090407170058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 7, 2009, Humana Inc. (the "Company") announced that Jonathan T. Lord, M.D., Senior Vice President  Chief Innovation Officer, will leave the Company to become Chief Executive Officer of Navigenics, Inc. A copy of the press release related to the announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 7, 2009
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  April 7, 2009  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that Jonathan Lord, M.D., Humana's senior vice president and chief innovation officer, has been named chief executive officer of Navigenics, Inc., a Foster City, Calif.-based personal genomics company that uses DNA testing and analysis to determine an individual's genetic predisposition for various health conditions with the goal of improving health outcomes in individuals across the population.
Dr. Lord, who joined Humana in 2000 as the company's first chief innovation officer, will leave Humana and assume his new position May 1.
"As a physician-researcher and a hands-on health futurist, Jack Lord has become a global leader in health care innovation, promotion and prevention," said Mike McCallister, president and chief executive officer of Humana. "For the past nine years, his work as the founding head of Humana's Innovation Center has powerfully transformed the company and the entire health benefits industry."
Among Dr. Lord's accomplishments at Humana were the design and implementation of innovative products and services that enable consumers to choose, finance and use their health benefits with confidence and success, including SmartSuite health plans and the ground-breaking SmartSummary and SmartSummary Rx comprehensive benefits statements. In recent years he
 
 
 
and his team developed a number of industry-leading, consumer-focused health and wellness initiatives including HealthMiles, the Freewheelin bike-sharing program and Humana Games4Health.
Before coming to Humana, Dr. Lord was president of Health Dialog in Boston, where he helped pioneer e-enabled health care. He has also served as chief operating officer of the American Hospital Association in Washington, D.C., and is currently a member of the advisory committee to the director of the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta.
McCallister said a successor to Dr. Lord would likely be named in the near future.
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health, and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.6 million commercial medical and Medicare Advantage members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplementary benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 48-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at , including copies of:
http://www.humana.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


