FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20090722174224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 22, 2009, Humana Inc. issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 22, 2009
 

Exhibit 99
 
release
news
 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  July 22, 2009  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Humana Military Healthcare Services, has filed a protest with the Government Accountability Office in connection with the recent award of the third generation TRICARE program contract for the South Region to another contractor. In its protest, Humana cited discrepancies between the award criteria and procedures prescribed in the request for proposals issued by the Department of Defense (DoD) and those that appear to have been used by the DoD in making its contractor selection.
Under its existing TRICARE contract, Humana Military provides managed care services supporting the DoD's delivery of health benefits to approximately 3 million active duty service men and women, their dependents, as well as retired service members and their families in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas. That contract currently covers benefits for healthcare services provided to beneficiaries through March 31, 2010.
The company is currently evaluating how its results of operations for the second half of 2009 and for 2010 may be affected by issues associated with the previously announced change in its military services contract.
 
 
This would primarily include such issues as impairment of military services goodwill, potential military services exit costs, possible military services asset sales, and a strategic assessment of ancillary military services businesses. The company cannot yet determine a reasonable estimate of the impact of such issues.
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases like "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "likely will result," "estimates," "projects" or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of our SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
About Humana Military Healthcare Services
Humana Military, a wholly owned subsidiary of Humana Inc., has been a Department of Defense contractor for the administration of the TRICARE program since July 1, 1996. In August 2003, Humana Military was awarded the contract to provide health benefits support and services to
 
 
active duty and retired military and their eligible family members in the 10-state South Region. Humana Military was also awarded the Department of Defense's contract to provide health care services and support for active duty service members and their families located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, in February 2004.
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.4 million medical members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplementary benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 48-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at , including copies of:
http://www.humana.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


