FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20101221161511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 
          Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
issued by Humana Inc. today announcing it had completed its previously announced acquisition of Concentra Inc., a privately held health care company based in Addison, Texas, and that the Company now expects consolidated earnings per diluted common share for the year ending December 31, 2011 of $5.45 to $5.65.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
A press release was
 
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
(d)           Exhibits:
 
 
Exhibit No.                                          Description                                                                  
 
 
           PressRelease
99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Dated:           December 21, 2010
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                                                  Description                                                                 
 
 
           Press Release
99
 
 
 
 

 500 West Main Street
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 P.O. Box 1438
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 Louisville, KY  40202
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
http://www.humana.com
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
news release
                                          
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  0; 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
For More Information Contact:
 
 
Regina Nethery
Humana Investor Relations
(502) 580-3644
E-mail:  
Rnethery@humana.com
Tom Noland
Humana Corporate Communications
(502) 580-3674
E-mail:  
Tnoland@humana.com
John deLorimier
Concentra Corporate Communications
(972) 725-6447
E-mail:  john_delorimier@concentra.com
LOUISVILLE, KY  December 21, 2010  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) today announced it has completed its previously announced acquisition of Concentra Inc., a privately held health care company based in Addison, Texas, for approximately $790 million in cash.
 
Through its affiliated clinicians, Concentra delivers occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy and wellness services to workers and the general public from more than 300 medical centers in 42 states.  Nearly 3 million Humana medical members live near a Concentra center.  In addition to its medical center locations, Concentra serves employer customers by providing a broad range of health advisory services and operating more than 240 worksite medical facilities.
 
Humanas consolidated revenues for the year ending December 31, 2011 are expected to increase by approximately $800 million in connection with this transaction. The company now expects consolidated earnings per diluted common share for the year ending December 31, 2011 of $5.45 to $5.65.
 
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of Humanas executive officers, the words or phrases like expects, anticipates, intends, likely will result, estimates, projects or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the Risk Factors section of the companys SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that the company is unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
 
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
 
 
About Humana
 
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nations largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.1 million medical members and 7.0 million specialty members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health, pharmacy and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
 
Over its 49-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
 
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
Annual reports to stockholders;
 
 
Securities and Exchange Commission filings;
 
 
Most recent investor conference presentations;
 
 
Quarterly earnings news releases;
 
 
Replays of most recent earnings release conference calls;
 
 
 
 
About Concentra
 
Concentra is a leading health care company focused on improving Americas health, one patient at a time. Through its affiliated clinicians, the company provides occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness service from more than 300 medical centers in 42 states.  In addition to these medical center locations, Concentra serves employers by providing a broad range of health advisory services and operating more than 240 worksite medical facilities.  Through this complement of services, Concentra intends to raise the standard of health by putting individuals first, treating them with clinical excellence, and focusing on their ongoing wellness.  
www.Concentra.com
 
 
 
 
 


