FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20101213171833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Deferred Compensation Plan
On December 9, 2010, the Organization & Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Humana Inc. (the "Company") approved and adopted the Humana Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), an unfunded plan maintained for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The Plan provides that each participant may elect to defer the payment of up to 80% of his or her performance based compensation pursuant to annual incentive plans sponsored by the Company; provided, that such amount must be equal to or greater than $25,000. Participants' deferral accounts are credited with a notional interest rate as determined by the Committee from time to time or notional gains and losses based on hypothetical investments selected by the participant among those made available from time to time under the Plan. Other than the notional interest and deemed investment returns, no Company contributions will be made under the Plan. Participants will be vested at all times in the amounts deferred under the Plan.
The foregoing description of the Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the complete terms and conditions of the Plan, which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 13, 2010


