FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20100217081534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 17, 2010, Humana Inc. ("Humana") issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 17, 2010
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  February 17, 2010  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that it intends to reduce its workforce on a net basis by approximately 1,400 positions, or five percent, over the course of 2010, balancing 2,500 position reductions with 1,100 additional jobs in areas of growth such as medical-cost containment capabilities, pharmacy management, and specialty products. The reduction will come primarily from attrition, process efficiencies, outsourcing, and position eliminations.
"Today's announcement reaffirms our commitment to positioning Humana for future growth," said Michael B. McCallister, Humana's president and chief executive officer. "This regrettable but necessary reduction in our workforce is a direct result of Humana's need to align the size of our company with that of our membership. We are committed to managing this aspect of our realignment with the utmost care and sensitivity."
All associates impacted by position eliminations will have a 60-day transition period at Humana. Human Resources will work closely with these associates to provide access to resources and information about internal opportunities and outplacement assistance. Associates who are unable to obtain another position with the company will be offered a severance package with continuation of health and other benefits.
 
McCallister said the workforce reduction will not impair the company's ability to serve its 10.3 million medical members and 7.2 million specialty-benefit members. Rather, the reduction  part of an ongoing administrative-cost-saving initiative at Humana  is intended to help the company create a more efficient, agile infrastructure while also providing the resources required to invest in new growth opportunities.
The company also reaffirmed its guidance for 2010 diluted earnings per common share of $5.15 to $5.35, noting that the changes described in this news release are not anticipated to result in any adjustments to its prior earnings guidance.
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases like "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "intends," "likely will result," "estimates," "projects" or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including information set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of our SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
 
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Ky., is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.3 million medical members and approximately 7.2 million specialty-benefit members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 49-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's Web site at , including copies of:
http://www.humana.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


