FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20101118071522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A press release was issued by Humana Inc. this morning in connection with its Investor Meeting to be held today, November 18, 2010, including 2011 earnings guidance, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 18, 2010
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  November 18, 2010  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced that its leadership team will host an Investor Meeting today including an update regarding Humana's strategic, operational and financial progress as well as expectations for future performance. The presentation will be followed by question and answer panels on a variety of topics. Humana's event is scheduled to begin at 8:30 a.m. eastern time and will be web cast so that the investing public and media have the opportunity to listen to both the presentation and panel discussions.
The company also announced today that it expects earnings per diluted common share (EPS) for the year ending December 31, 2011 (FY11) of $5.35 to $5.55 and reiterated its expectation for EPS of $6.40 to $6.50 for the year ending December 31, 2010.
The year-over-year decline in expected EPS primarily reflects the company's regular resetting of its Medicare pretax operating margin target of 5 percent in its bids submitted for 2011, resulting in less disruption for its Medicare members despite numerous changes to the program in the forthcoming year. Other key assumptions impacting the expected year-over-year change in EPS include higher average Medicare membership, Commercial segment medical cost trends reverting to traditionally higher levels and the anticipated effect from the loss of the TRICARE South Region contract in early 2012.
"Our 2011 guidance reflects near-term challenges," said Michael B. McCallister, Humana's chairman of the board and chief executive officer. "Longer term, as demographic and reform-related trends expand Medicare and the individual market, our strength in retail sales and our growing emphasis on cross-selling opportunities position us favorably."
 
 
Today's Investor Meeting web cast and virtual presentation (audio with slides) may be accessed via the Humana's Investor Relations page at www.humana.com. The company suggests web participants sign on approximately 15 minutes in advance of the event. The company also suggests web participants visit the site in advance to run a system test and to download any free software needed.
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of Humana's executive officers, the words or phrases like "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "likely will result," "estimates," "projects" or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of the company's SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that the company is unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.1 million medical members and 7.0 million specialty members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health, pharmacy and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 49-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humana Inc.  Earnings Guidance Points as of November 18, 2010
 
 
 
Humana Inc.  Earnings Guidance Points as of November 18, 2010
 
 
 
Humana Inc.  Earnings Guidance Points as of November 18, 2010
 
 
 
Humana Inc.  Earnings Guidance Points as of November 18, 2010
 
 


