FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20101122090552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A press release was issued by Humana Inc. today announcing it had signed a definitive agreement to purchase Concentra Inc., a privately held health care company based in Addison, Texas, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
LOUISVILLE, KY  November 22, 2010  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) today announced it has signed a definitive agreement to purchase Concentra Inc., a privately held health care company based in Addison, Texas, for approximately $790 million in cash. Through its affiliated clinicians, Concentra delivers occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy and wellness services to workers and the general public from more than 300 medical centers in 42 states. Nearly 3 million Humana medical members live near a Concentra center. In addition to its medical center locations, Concentra serves employer customers by providing a broad range of health advisory services and operating more than 240 worksite medical facilities.
"Concentra brings solid experience across a number of fronts that fit well with our consumer-focused strategy and will allow both organizations to provide a wide array of services to individuals needing access to convenient and affordable high-quality health care," said Michael B. McCallister, Humana's chairman of the board and chief executive officer. "We are excited about the opportunity to acquire a strong stand-alone business that reinforces our core businesses while providing both revenue diversification and opportunities for strategic expansion longer term."
"This combination with Humana is an excellent opportunity to expand service to patients and employers, as well as enhance access to convenient medical care for patients in communities nationwide," said James M. Greenwood, Concentra's chief executive officer. "Concentra's focus on evidence-based, cost-effective medical care and a service-driven culture parallels that of Humana and ultimately results in tremendous opportunity across the combined enterprise."
 
Annual revenues for Concentra approximate $800 million. The transaction is subject to certain regulatory approvals and is anticipated to close in December 2010. Humana's financial guidance for the years ending December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011 exclude the impact of this pending transaction. Concentra is expected to be slightly accretive to Humana's earnings for the year ending December 31, 2011.
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of Humana's executive officers, the words or phrases like "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "likely will result," "estimates," "projects" or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of the company's SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that the company is unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
 
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.1 million medical members and 7.0 million specialty members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health, pharmacy and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
Over its 49-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About Concentra
Concentra is a leading health care company focused on improving America's health, one patient at a time. Through its affiliated clinicians, the company provides occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness service from more than 300 medical centers in 42 states. In addition to these medical center locations, Concentra serves employers by providing a broad range of health advisory services and operating more than 240 worksite medical facilities. Through this complement of services, Concentra intends to raise the standard of health by putting individuals first, treating them with clinical excellence, and focusing on their ongoing wellness.
www.Concentra.com
 


