FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20100505190236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2010, a press release was issued by Humana Inc. reporting that TRICARE Management Activity notified Humana Military Healthcare Services of action regarding the South Region Contract.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 5, 2010

Exhibit 99
 
 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  May 5, 2010  Humana Inc.'s (NYSE: HUM) wholly owned subsidiary, Humana Military Healthcare Services, received today from the Department of Defense's TRICARE Management Activity (TMA) an amendment to its Request for Proposal allowing the original offerors to submit a Final Proposal Revision (FPR) for the next TRICARE South Region contract.
This amendment follows a recommendation from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) in late 2009 to re-evaluate existing proposals and is intended to resolve any ambiguities specifically identified within the GAO's decision. Offerors' FPRs are due to the government within 14 calendar days.
"We are eager to move forward with this process and intend to submit our best offer to the government," said Dave Baker, president and CEO of Humana Military. "Meanwhile, our Humana Military associates remain passionate about supporting the men, women and children in the military communities we serve."
 
In connection with today's announcement by TMA, Humana has reiterated its guidance for diluted earnings per common share for the year ending December 31, 2010 of between $5.55 and $5.65. Humana Military's current South Region TRICARE contract runs through March 31, 2011.
Humana Military was first selected in 1995 as the contractor for TRICARE Regions 3 (Southeast) and 4 (GulfSouth). In May 2001, a Humana Military affiliate acquired Regions 2 (Mid-Atlantic) and 5 (Heartland) and nearly doubled the number of beneficiaries served. Subsequently, in 2004, Humana Military began administering the current South Region contract (including approximately three million beneficiaries) for the next generation of TRICARE contracts.
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of Humana's executive officers, the words or phrases like "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "likely will result," "estimates," "projects" or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of the company's SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that the company is unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
About Humana Military Healthcare Services
Humana Military, a wholly owned subsidiary of Humana Inc., has been a Department of Defense contractor for the administration of the TRICARE program since July 1, 1996. During its tenure, Humana Military has won numerous awards for its service to TRICARE beneficiaries.
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.4 million medical members and 7.2 million specialty members. Humana is a full-service benefits solutions company, offering a wide array of health, pharmacy and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals.
 
 
Over its 49-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at http://www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


