FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20110225172540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 
          Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
Humana Inc. issued a press release today announcing that
its wholly-owned subsidiary, Humana Military Healthcare Services, Inc., had been awarded a major TRICARE contract by the Department of Defense.  A copy of the press release is
attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
(d)           Exhibits:
 
 
Exhibit No.                                          Description                                                                  
 
 
           PressRelease
99
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Dated:           February 25, 2011
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                                            Description                                                                 
 
 
            Press Release
99
   
   
   
   
 

 
Humana Inc.
500 West Main Street
P.O. Box 1438
Louisville, KY 40201-1438
http://www.humana.com
r e l e a s e
n e w s  
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT:
Julie Ice
Humana Military Healthcare Services
502-301-6982
jice@humana.com
Regina Nethery
Humana Investor Relations
(502) 580-3644
E-mail:
rnethery@humana.com
Tom Noland
Humana Corporate Communications
(502) 580-3674
E-mail:
tnoland@humana.com
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  February 25, 2011  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) was informed today by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) that it has awarded the South Region TRICARE contract to Humanas wholly-owned subsidiary, Humana Military Healthcare Services, Inc. Under terms of the award, Humana Military will continue supporting the DoDs delivery of health care services to three million active duty and retired service members and their families in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, and most of Texas. Eligible military beneficiaries in the Fort Campbell, Kentucky area will also be served by Humana Military under terms of the award.
Todays announcement follows a successful protest Humana Military lodged with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) in July 2009 over the governments initial award of the contract to another company.  Health care delivery under the new contract is scheduled to begin on April 1, 2012.  As is customary, it provides for five one-year options exercisable by the DoD.
Humana Military is pleased and honored by the governments decision because it allows us to continue serving our nations uniformed service members, military retirees and their families, said Dave Baker, president and CEO of Humana Military. Together with thousands of outstanding health care providers throughout the South Region, we take great pride in providing access to high-quality, cost-effective health care services to the military community.  The award to our company means beneficiaries and providers alike will experience virtually no disruption in the levels of service they have come to expect from Humana Military, Baker said.
In light of today's announcement, Humana is raising its guidance for diluted earnings per common share for the year ending December 31, 2011 to a range of $5.95 to $6.15, as the company no longer anticipates incurring expenses in 2011 of approximately $0.25 per share associated with the loss of the TRICARE South Region contract in early 2012.  Ultimate disposition of the contract award is, however, subject to the resolution of any protests that may be filed by unsuccessful bidders.
This is the sixth TRICARE contract administered by Humana Military since 1996.
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of Humanas executive officers, the words or phrases like expects, anticipates, intends, likely will result, estimates, projects or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the Risk Factors section of the companys SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that the company is unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
 
 
About Humana Military Healthcare Services
Humana Military, a wholly owned subsidiary of Humana Inc. and headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, has been a Department of Defense contractor for the administration of the TRICARE program since July 1, 1996. In August 2003, Humana Military was awarded the contract to provide health-benefits support and services to approximately three million active duty and retired military and their eligible family members in the 10-state South Region. For more information about Humana Military, please visit .
www.humana-military.com
About Humana
 
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one of the nation's largest publicly traded health and supplemental benefits companies, with approximately 10.2 million medical members, 7.1 million specialty members, and operates more than 300 medical centers and 240 worksite medical facilities. Humana is a full-service benefits and well-being solutions company, offering a wide array of health, pharmacy and supplemental benefit plans for employer groups, government programs and individuals, as well as primary and workplace care through its medical centers and worksite medical facilities.
 
Over its 50-year history, Humana has consistently seized opportunities to meet changing customer needs. Today, the company is a leader in consumer engagement, providing guidance that leads to lower costs and a better health plan experience throughout its diversified customer portfolio.
 
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 


