FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20110426084837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
 
(Commission File Number)                      (IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
 
 
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                         (Zip Code)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
          Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
          Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
          Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
          Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
A press release was issued by Humana Inc. this morning reporting: (i) a realignment of Humanas financial reporting segments; (ii) the establishment of a quarterly cash dividend policy and the declaration of a cash dividend to stockholders of $0.25 per share payable on July 28, 2011 to stockholders of record on June 30, 2011; (iii) a new share repurchase authorization of up to $1 billion by June 30, 2013; and (iv) certain financial results for the period ended March 31, 2011 and updated 2011 earnings guidance, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits:
 
Exhibit No.                                          Description                                                                  
 
Press Release and Statistical Pages
       99              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                  
 
 
 
 
Dated:    April 26, 2011
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
Exhibit No.                                                  Description                                                                 
 
Press Release and Statistical Pages
       99              

500 West Main Street
P.O. Box 1438
Louisville, KY  40202
http://www.humana.com
news release
For More Information Contact:
Regina Nethery
Humana Investor Relations
(502) 580-3644
E-mail:  
Rnethery@humana.com
Tom Noland
Humana Corporate Communications
(502) 580-3674
E-mail:  
Tnoland@humana.com
LOUISVILLE, KY  April 26, 2011  Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced today that it has realigned its business segments to more closely reflect the companys evolving business model.  Effective immediately, the company will be managing and reporting its operating results using the following segments:  Retail, Employer Group, and Health and Well-Being Services. The company will also disclose results for Other Businesses. Restated historical segment financials for 2010 quarters are included with this press release.
The company also announced that its Board of Directors has approved a quarterly cash dividend policy and has declared a cash dividend to stockholders of $0.25 per share payable on July 28, 2011 to stockholders of record on June 30, 2011.  Humanas Board has also replaced its previously approved share repurchase authorization of up to $250 million (approximately $100 million of which was still outstanding as of April 25, 2011) with a new authorization for repurchases of up to $1 billion by June 30, 2013.
We have realigned our businesses to better serve our customers.  The new financial reporting format not only reflects this change but also provides better transparency into our operating units, said Michael B. McCallister, Humanas chairman of the board and chief executive officer.  We are also pleased to expand our capital deployment plans as further demonstration of our confidence in Humanas future.
Through prudent and strict capital conservation over the past several years, Humana significantly strengthened its capital position to fund its growth in membership, revenue and geography, said James H. Bloem, Humanas senior vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer.  We are confident in our ability to pay quarterly cash dividends and execute a more robust share repurchase program while maintaining appropriate levels of capital in our subsidiaries and funding potential acquisitions and investments that reflect our long-term strategy.
Humana will release its detailed financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 (1Q11) on Monday, May 2, 2011 and now anticipates 1Q11 diluted earnings per common share (EPS) of $1.86, exceeding the companys previous guidance of $1.15 to $1.20 per share.  The better-than-expected results primarily related to a lower-than-expected benefit ratio for the quarter and included the impact of favorable prior-year development in medical claims reserves of $0.31 per share.  Humana has also revised its guidance for full-year 2011 EPS to a range of $6.70 to $6.90, up from its previous guidance range of $5.95 to $6.15 per share.
Overview of Humanas Businesses
 
Humana is a leading health care company that offers a wide range of insurance products and health and wellness services that incorporate an integrated approach to lifelong well-being.  By leveraging the strengths of its core businesses, Humana believes it can better explore opportunities for existing and emerging adjacencies in health care that can further enhance wellness opportunities for the millions of people across the nation with whom the company has relationships.
Retail Segment
This segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including the following medical and supplemental benefit plans:
Employer Group Segment
This segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including the following medical and supplemental benefit plans:
Health and Well-Being Services Segment
This segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that promote health and well-being.  These services are sold to other Humana businesses, external health plan members and other employers or individuals and include the following:
Other Businesses
Other Businesses are not sold to employers or individuals and do not meet quantitative thresholds for separate reporting.  Such businesses include the following:
  
Closed Block of Long-Term Care Insurance
Eliminations/Corporate
This includes interest income, interest expense and certain corporate expenses not identifiable to a specific line of business as well as intersegment eliminations.
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of Humanas executive officers, the words or phrases like expects, anticipates, intends, likely will result, estimates, projects or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the Risk Factors section of the companys SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that the company is unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
 
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a leading health care company that offers a wide range of insurance products and health and wellness services that incorporate an integrated approach to lifelong well-being.  By leveraging the strengths of its core businesses, Humana believes it can better explore opportunities for existing and emerging adjacencies in health care that can further enhance wellness opportunities for the millions of people across the nation with whom the company has relationships.
 
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at www.humana.com, including copies of:
 
 
Annual reports to stockholders;
 
Securities and Exchange Commission filings;
 
Most recent investor conference presentations;
 
Quarterly earnings news releases;
 
Replays of most recent earnings release conference calls;
 Calendar of events (including upcoming earnings conference call dates and times, as well as planned interaction with research analysts and institutional investors);
 Corporate Governance information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


