FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20121109171912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Other Events.
A press release was issued by Humana Inc. this afternoon in connection with its Investor Meeting to be held on Tuesday, November 13, 2012, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 9, 2012
 

Exhibit 99
 
 Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) announced that it will be hosting an Investor Meeting on Tuesday, November 13, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. eastern time. The Investor Meeting will include a number of presentations by company leaders focusing on Humana's strategic direction, operational and financial progress and expectations for future performance.
LOUISVILLE, KY (November 9, 2012)
At the Investor Meeting, the company will be reiterating its guidance for the years ending December 31, 2012 and 2013 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 5, 2012 in conjunction with its third quarter 2012 earnings release. A copy of those detailed guidance points is included with this release.
Humana encourages the investing public and media to listen to its Investor Meeting via the Internet since attendance at the event is by invitation only. The Investor Meeting web cast and virtual presentation (audio with slides) may be accessed via the Humana's Investor Relations page at www.humana.com. The company suggests web participants sign on approximately 15 minutes in advance of the event. The company also suggests web participants visit the site in advance to run a system test and to download any free software needed.
Below is the agenda for the event:
 
Cautionary Statement
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in investor presentations, press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of Humana's executive officers, the words or phrases like "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "likely will result," "estimates," "projects" or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including, among other things, information set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of the company's SEC filings, a summary of which includes but is not limited to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In making forward-looking statements, Humana is not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding its business or results. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed herein may or may not occur. There also may be other risks that the company is unable to predict at this time. Any of these risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Humana advises investors to read the following documents as filed by the company with the SEC for further discussion both of the risks it faces and its historical performance:
 
 
 
About Humana
Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a leading health care company that offers a wide range of insurance products and health and wellness services that incorporate an integrated approach to lifelong well-being. By leveraging the strengths of its core businesses, Humana believes it can better explore opportunities for existing and emerging adjacencies in health care that can further enhance wellness opportunities for the millions of people across the nation with whom the company has relationships.
More information regarding Humana is available to investors via the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at , including copies of:
www.humana.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humana Inc.  Earnings Guidance Points as Issued on November 5, 2012
 
 
Humana Inc.  Earnings Guidance Points as Issued on November 5, 2012
 
 


