FILE:HUM/HUM-8K-20120305091829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements for Certain Officers.
(b)           Departure of Named Executive Officer
Effective as of March 1, 2012, Humana Inc. (the ) and V. Rajamannar Madabhushi entered into a Voluntary Release and Mutual Separation Agreement (the ) regarding Mr. Rajamannars departure from the Company.
Company
Agreement
(e)           Compensatory Arrangements for Certain Officers
The payments and benefits to which Mr. Rajamannar is entitled under the Agreement, which are summarized below, are generally subject to Mr. Rajamannar's compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, in addition to certain incentive, accrued and retirement compensation that Mr. Rajamannar is entitled to under Humanas compensation programs and policies, certain stock options and restricted stock held by Mr. Rajamannar that, pursuant to the terms of the applicable agreements, were scheduled to vest on April 28, 2012, will continue to vest as if Mr. Rajamannar were still employed by the Company through such date.  Any other equity compensation awards that were unvested as of the termination date were forfeited for no consideration.  Mr. Rajamannar will have 90 days following April 28, 2012 to exercise the options that will become vested and exercisable on April 28, 2012 as described above.
 
The Company has agreed to waive certain non-competition covenants that Mr. Rajamannar would have otherwise been subject to pursuant to the terms of his equity compensation agreements, but solely relating to employment with Wellpoint, Inc. or its affiliates.  Mr. Rajamannar will continue to be subject to covenants restricting his solicitation of employees and customers of the Company contained in such agreements, as well as restrictions prohibiting disclosure of confidential information (the non-competition, non-solicitation and confidentiality covenants, collectively, the ).  The Agreement also contains Mr. Rajamannars release of any claims he may have against the Company.
Restrictive Covenants
 
If Mr. Rajamannar violates the Restrictive Covenants, he will generally forfeit any remaining equity awards held (including any scheduled to vest on April 28, 2012) and will be required to reimburse the Company for gains on shares acquired pursuant to stock options and restricted stock scheduled to vest on April 28, 2012 as described above.
 
The foregoing description of the Agreement is a summary, is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:     March 5, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

 
This Voluntary Release and Mutual Separation Agreement (Agreement) sets forth the understanding between you, , and Humana Inc. and its affiliates and subsidiaries () with respect to the mutual termination of your employment with Humana.  In consideration of your agreement to the terms set forth below and the mutual benefits to be derived hereunder, and conditional upon your execution of this Agreement within the time period set forth below, it is agreed:
Venkata Rajamannar Madabhushi
Humana
 
Your last day of employment is March 1, 2012 (the Termination Date).
 
A.
 
CONSIDERATION
 
:  Subject to Section A(3) below, the Stock Options and Restricted Stock granted to you on April 28, 2009, will vest on April 28, 2012, as provided for in the Humana Inc. Stock Option Agreement and the Humana Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Agreement dated April 28, 2009, and shall not forfeit upon termination of your employment as provided for in those Agreements. You will have 90 days from April 28, 2012 to exercise those options scheduled to vest on April 28, 2012.  In no event may you exercise any vested options beyond their expiration date.
1)  Vesting of Equity Awards
 
All Stock Options granted to you on February 18, 2010, and February 17, 2011, that are not vested as of the Termination Date will terminate on that date and all shares of Restricted Stock granted to you on February 17, 2011, that are not vested as of  the Termination Date will be forfeited on that date.
 
: Subject to Section A(3) below, Humana agrees that the Section entitled Agreement Not to Compete, in the Humana Inc. Stock Option and/or Restricted Stock Agreements, dated April 28, 2009, February 18, 2010, and February 17, 2011, and entered into by you and Humana (collectively Stock Agreements), is, subject to the following sentence, waived by Humana.   This waiver is effective for and limited to your employment with WellPoint, Inc., its subsidiaries or affiliates (WellPoint) only.
2)  Waiver of Non-Compete Agreement
 
The section of the Stock Agreements entitled Agreement Not to Solicit shall remain in full force and effect.  The Confidentiality Agreement that you agreed to upon employment and affirmed each year thereafter shall also remain in full force and effect.
 
The provisions in numerical paragraphs one (1) and (2) listed above are hereafter collectively referred to as .
Consideration
 
TheConsideration provided for in this Agreement, which you are otherwise not entitled to receive without executing this Agreement, is available only if you agree to, and abide by each of the terms of this Agreement and this Agreement is not revoked as permitted in this paragraph A(3).  You have up to and including twenty-one (21) days after your last date of employment in which to consider and execute this Agreement, however, it may be executed anytime within the twenty-one (21) day period.  In order to receive the Consideration, this executed Agreement must be postmarked no later than twenty-one (21) days after your last date of employment, if mailed, or hand-delivered to  , no later than twenty-one (21) days after your last date of employment.  You will have seven (7) days following your execution of this Agreement to revoke the Agreement (the Revocation Period).  Revocation must be in writing, clearly stating your intent to revoke the Agreement, addressed to the following   The written revocation must be either hand delivered with a signature receipt by a Humana representative or sent certified or registered mail and, in either case, received by Humana prior to the end of Revocation Period.  Assuming that you do not revoke or cancel this Agreement prior to the end of the Revocation Period, this Agreement shall become fully effective at the end of Revocation Period and Humana shall provide the Consideration to you.  If you do not execute this Agreement within the twenty-one (21) day period or if you revoke the Agreement within the Revocation Period, the Stock Options granted to you on April 28, 2009, and which could vest as of April 28, 2012, as described herein, will terminate and Restricted Stock granted to you on April 28, 2009, and which could vest as of April 28, 2012, as described herein, will be forfeited.  Additionally, the Section entitled Agreement Not to Compete, in the Stock Agreements will remain in full force and effect as written in the Stock Agreements.
3)  Obtaining Consideration:
 
Joan O. Lenahan, Vice President & Corporate Secretary, Humana Inc., 500 W. Main Street, 21
st
Floor, Louisville, Kentucky 40202
Joan O. Lenahan, Vice President & Corporate Secretary, Humana Inc., 500 W. Main Street, 21st Floor, Louisville, Kentucky 40202.
 
:  In addition to and without limiting  the recovery of damages and all other remedies available to Humana at law or equity , you agree that if you violate any provision of  the Sections of the Stock Agreements, entitled Agreement Not to Compete (to the extent such provision has not been waived pursuant to Section A(2) above) and Agreement Not to Solicit, or any provision of the Confidentiality Agreement:
4)  Forfeiture of Consideration
(a)           any Stock Options granted to you on April 28, 2009, that as of the date Humana notifies you of its intent to exercise its rights under this Section A(4) of the Agreement (the Forfeiture Notice Date.
are outstanding
)
, whether or not vested, will be forfeited for no consideration
(b)           any Restricted Stock granted to you on April 28, 2009, that has not vested as of the Forfeiture Notice Date will be forfeited .
for no consideration
(c)           with respect to any Stock Options granted to you on April 28, 2009, and which vested as of April 28, 2012, as described herein, and which you , you shall pay to Humana an amount equal to either (i) if such shares were disposed of in an open market transaction, the proceeds you
shares of Humana common stock (Common Stock) that you have acquired pursuant to the exercise of all or a portion of the
no longer own as of the Forfeiture Notice Date
 
received from the disposition of such shares over the aggregate exercise price paid to acquire such shares, or (ii) if such shares were disposed of other than in an open market transaction, the aggregate fair market value of such shares as of the Forfeiture Notice Date; and
(d)           with respect to any Stock Options granted to you on April 28, 2009, and which vested as of April 28, 2012, as described herein , you shall pay to Humana an amount equal to the difference between the aggregate fair market value of such shares on the Forfeiture Notice Date and the aggregate exercise price such ; and
shares of Common Stock that you have acquired pursuant to the exercise of all or a portion of the
which you continue to own as of the Forfeiture Notice Date
paid to acquire
shares
(e)           with respect to any Restricted Stock granted to you on April 28, 2009, that pay to Humana an amount equal to either
shares of
have vested as of the Forfeiture Notice Date, you shall (i) with respect to any such shares that you continue to own as of the Forfeiture Notice Date, pay to Humana an amount equal to the aggregate fair market value of such shares on the Forfeiture Notice Date, and (ii) with respect to any such shares that you no longer own as of Forfeiture Notice Date,
(X) if such shares were disposed of in an open market transaction, the proceeds you received from the disposition of such shares, or (Y) if such shares were disposed of other than in an open market transaction, the aggregate fair market value of such Restricted Stock as of the Forfeiture Notice Date.
 
B.  
GENERAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS
 
The foregoing is in consideration of your agreement that the Consideration provided above is accepted in return for full and final release and settlement of any and all legal and equitable claims of any type relating to your employment or separation from employment which you have or may have against Humana or any of its officers, agents, or employees, as of the date of this Agreement, whether known or unknown.  You represent that you have not filed or otherwise initiated any complaints, claims, or charges with any local, state or federal court, agency or board, based on events occurring prior to and including the date you execute this Agreement.   You also waive any right to receive any compensation or benefit from any complaints, claims, or charges with any local, state or federal court, agency or board, or in any proceeding of any kind which may be brought against Humana as a result of such a charge or complaint.   This release includes, but is not limited to, any right, charge, claim, or claims, whether known or unknown, under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Equal Pay Act, and any and all claims under any other federal, state, or local statutory, administrative, constitutional, common law or other legal or equitable theory, including but not limited to, claims for wrongful discharge or breach of contract.
Release:
 
C.  
ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS/OBLIGATIONS
 
In addition to the Consideration, you will also receive the following:
Other Compensation:  
 
 
: Any medical or dental coverage you have with Humana will terminate as of your termination date.  Thereafter, you will have COBRA continuation rights for dental or medical coverage.
Benefits
 
You understand and agree that the provisions of the Stock Agreements shall remain in force except as amended above in Sections A(1) and A(2) of this Agreement.  In all other respects, the Stock Agreements and their provisions remain in full force and effect, including but not limited to the Sections entitled Agreement Not To Solicit.  You further agree that any violation or threatened violation of the provision(s) of the Stock Agreements, including but not limited to the Sections entitled Agreement Not To Solicit, will result in irreparable injury to Humana, that the remedy at law for any violation or threatened violation of such provision(s) are inadequate and in the event of any such breach or threatened breach and Humana, in addition to any other remedies or damages available to it at law or in equity, shall be entitled to temporary injunctive relief before trial as a matter of course, and to permanent injunctive relief without the necessity of proving actual damages.  Without otherwise limiting the generality of the Agreement Not to Solicit, you specifically acknowledge that any interference by you, directly or indirectly, with Humanas contracts or business relationships with any vendor or agency, including those who provide marketing and/or corporate communications services, will constitute a breach of the Agreement.  Additionally, you acknowledge that the existence of or terms of any contract or relationship with any such vendor or agency is Confidential Information within the scope of the confidentiality provision of this Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement.
Stock Agreement, Agreement Not to Solicit:  
 
You agree and acknowledge that all work or work product that you created, developed, produced, utilized or assisted in the creation, development, production, or utilization of, including but not limited to work or work product you were involved in, observed or were exposed to in any way, while you were employed by Humana is the intellectual property of Humana, and as such, is owned by Humana and you have no interest or claim to said work or work product. Whenever requested to do so by Humana, you shall execute any and all applications, assignments or other instruments which Humana shall deem necessary to apply for and obtain trademarks, patents or copyrights of the United States or any foreign country or otherwise protect the interests of Human and its affiliates in any such intellectual property.
Ownership of Intellectual Property:  
 
You agree, acknowledge and understand that during or as a result of your employment with Humana,  you have been exposed to and have received non-public information relating to the confidential affairs of Humana and its affiliates, including, without limitation, technical information, intellectual property, business and marketing plans, strategies, customer information, software, other information concerning the products, promotions, development, financing, expansion plans, business policies and practices of the Humana and its affiliates and other forms of information considered by Humana and its affiliates to be confidential or in the nature of trade secrets (including, without limitation, ideas, research and development, know-how, formulas, technical data, designs, drawings, specifications, customer and supplier lists, pricing and cost information and business and marketing plans and proposals) (collectively, the Confidential Information).  You agree that the Confidential Information is owned by Humana and that you will not, directly or indirectly, disclose, share or divulge in any manner or in any way through any type of communication or medium, including but not limited to, verbal, electronic, written or auditory, any of said Confidential Information which is now known to you or which hereafter may become known to you as a result of your employment by Humana to any person, firm, corporation, private or public entity of any kind, or use or attempt to use such information in any way.  Additionally, all provisions of the Confidentiality Agreement also remain in full force and effect.
Confidentiality and Covenant Not to Disclose:  
 
If you are requested or compelled to divulge Confidential Information under operation of law, governmental regulation(s) or investigation, subpoena or court order, you further agree to, prior to any disclosure, notify Humana of such potential disclosure and cooperate fully with Humana with regard to such proceedings prior to divulging the information requested, including cooperation with Humanas counsel or counsel provided to you at Humanas cost.  Humana agrees and acknowledges that disclosure of Confidential Information under such circumstances and with the express consent of Humana shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement.
 
You agree not to do or say anything that would diminish or constrain Humanas good will or good reputation or that of Humanas employees, officers, directors, agents, products, or services.  You agree not to disparage or seek to injure Humanas reputation or that of such other aforementioned individuals.  You agree to refrain from making negative statements regarding Humanas methods of doing business, the quality, wisdom or effectiveness of Humanas business policies or practices, or the quality of Humanas products, services, or directors, officers or other personnel.
No Disparagement:
 
You agree that, if requested by Humana, you will fully cooperate in the event that your assistance or testimony is needed in any litigation, threatened litigation, or dispute arising from events and circumstances which occurred during your employment with Humana.  You also agree that, if requested by Humana, you will fully cooperate and provide assistance to Humana in any matter of which you have or have had knowledge that Humana may consider to be helpful to it in the furtherance of its business matters.
Cooperation in Defense of Future Actions and in Furtherance of Business Matters:
 
It is understood that nothing in this Agreement constitutes any kind of admission of wrongdoing by any party or acknowledgment that Humana has any liability or obligation to you, other than to fulfill the obligations or Agreements contained herein upon proper execution of this Agreement.
No Admission of Liability:
 
This Agreement, the Stock Agreements and the Confidentiality Agreement reflect the entire understanding between Humana and you, and no statements, promises or inducements, whether written or oral, made by either party that are not contained in this Agreement, the Stock Agreements or the Confidentiality Agreement shall be valid or binding upon the parties to this Agreement.
Entire Agreement:
 
In the event any portion of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be enforced in harmony with the purpose of the Agreement.
Severability:
 
You and Humana hereby acknowledge and agree:
Acknowledgments:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, as their free and voluntary act, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date indicated.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
HUMANA
 
BY:                                                                                                                                             
/s/ Joan O. Lenahan
/s/ Venkata Rajamannar Madabhushi
Humana Representative Signature                                                               Venkata Rajamannar Madabhushi
 
                                                                                                                                                        
Joan O. Lenahan
February 29, 2012
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Humana Representative Name (please print)                                                                                Date
 
                                                                      
Vice President & Corporate Secretary
Title
 
                                                                      
February 29, 2012
Date
 


