FILE:SPLS/SPLS-8K-20021008122431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): SEPTEMBER 26, 2002 STAPLES, INC. (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN CHARTER) DELAWARE 0-17586 04-2896127 (STATE OR OTHER (COMMISSION FILE NUMBER) (IRS EMPLOYER JURISDICTION OF INCORPORATION) IDENTIFICATION NO.) FIVE HUNDRED STAPLES DRIVE FRAMINGHAM, MASSACHUSETTS 01702 (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES) (ZIP CODE) (508) 253-5000 (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE) NOT APPLICABLE (FORMER NAME OR FORMER ADDRESS, IF CHANGED SINCE LAST REPORT)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. 1. On September 30, 2002, Staples, Inc. (the "Company") completed its previously announced offering of $325.0 million principal amount of its 7.375% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "notes"). The notes were sold in a private placement to qualified institutional investors pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Net proceeds to the Company were approximately $319.7 million. The Company expects to use all the net proceeds to finance a portion of the EUR825 million purchase price of the Company's acquisition of the European mail order business of Guilbert SA, a subsidiary of Pinault Printemps Redoute, which was announced in August 2002 (the "European Acquisition"). Attached as EXHIBIT 99.1 is an excerpt from the private offering memorandum, dated September 25, 2002, which contains a summary description of the notes. This description is only a summary of the terms of the indenture governing the notes. It does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, all of the provisions of the indenture. The indenture is attached as EXHIBIT 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This report does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities. Any offer of the notes was made only by means of a private offering memorandum. 2. On October 4, 2002, the Company entered into a $325 million 364-Day Term Loan Agreement (the "Term Loan") with a group of commercial banks (the "Banks"), with Fleet National Bank acting as agent. The Company expects to use the Term Loan to finance a portion of the purchase price of the European Acquisition, which the Company expects to close in October 2002. Borrowings under the Term Loan will bear interest, at the Company's option, at either (a) the higher of the lead bank's prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, or (b) the EURO rate plus a percentage spread based upon certain defined ratios. The Term Loan's financial covenants are the same as the financial covenants of the Company's existing $600 million revolving credit facility. Under the terms of the Term Loan, the Company may only draw on the Term Loan upon European regulatory approval of the European Acquisition. If the European Acquisition has not been consummated by December 31, 2002, then (a) the Banks' commitment to lend funds to the Company under the Term Loan shall expire and (b) any borrowings outstanding as of that date under the Term Loan must be repaid. The Term Loan matures on October 3, 2003. Attached as EXHIBIT 10.1 is a copy of the Term Loan Agreement, dated as of October 4, 2002. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION - ----------- ----------- 4.1 Indenture, dated September 30, 2002, by and among Staples, Inc., the Guarantor Subsidiaries and HSBC Bank USA, as Trustee, relating to the 7.375% Senior Notes due 2012. 10.1 364-Day Term Loan Agreement, dated as of October 4, 2002, by and among Staples, Inc., the lenders named therein and Fleet National Bank, as agent. 99.1 Excerpt from private offering memorandum, dated September 25, 2002, entitled "Description of Notes". 99.2 Press Release, dated September 26, 2002, relating to the pricing of the offering of the 7.375% Senior Notes due 2012. -1-
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. STAPLES, INC. Date: October 8, 2002 By: /s/ JACK VANWOERKOM ------------------------------ Jack VanWoerkom Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary -2-
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION - ----------- ----------- 4.1 Indenture, dated September 30, 2002, by and among Staples, Inc., the Guarantor Subsidiaries and HSBC Bank USA, as Trustee, relating to the 7.375% Senior Notes due 2012. 10.1 364-Day Term Loan Agreement, dated as of October 4, 2002, by and among Staples, Inc., the lenders named therein and Fleet National Bank, as agent. 99.1 Excerpt from private offering memorandum, dated September 25, 2002, entitled "Description of Notes". 99.2 Press Release, dated September 26, 2002, relating to the pricing of the offering of the 7.375% Senior Notes due 2012. -3-

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- STAPLES, INC., AS ISSUER, --------- and THE SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS NAMED HEREIN, AS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS, ------------------------ to HSBC BANK USA, AS TRUSTEE ---------- ---------------- Indenture Dated as of September 30, 2002 ---------------- 7.375% Senior Notes due 2012 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS - --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - i -
- --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - ii -
- --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - iii -
- --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - iv -
- --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - v -
- --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - vi -
- --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - vii -
- --------------- Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. - viii -
INDENTURE, dated as of September 30, 2002, among Staples, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 500 Staples Drive, Framingham, Massachusetts 01702, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors (as hereinafter defined) and HSBC Bank USA, a banking corporation and trust company duly organized and existing under the laws of New York, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"). RECITALS OF THE COMPANY AND THE SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS The Company has duly authorized the creation of an issue of its 7.375% Senior Notes due October 1, 2022 of substantially the tenor and amount hereinafter set forth, and to provide therefor the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture. The Company and the presently existing Subsidiary Guarantors are members of the same consolidated group of companies and are engaged in related businesses; the presently existing Subsidiary Guarantors will derive direct and indirect economic benefit from the issuance of the Securities; accordingly, each presently existing Subsidiary Guarantor has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for its full, unconditional, irrevocable and joint and several guarantee of the Securities. All things necessary to make the Securities, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company, to make the Subsidiary Guarantees (as hereinafter defined) of each of the Subsidiary Guarantors, when executed by the respective Subsidiary Guarantors and endorsed on the Securities, the valid obligations of the respective Subsidiary Guarantors, and to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors in accordance with its terms, have been done. NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows: ARTICLE ONE Definitions and Other Provisions of General Application SECTION 101. DEFINITIONS. ----------- For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP; (3) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section", or to an "Annex", refers to an Article or Section of, or to an Annex attached to, this Indenture, as the case may be; (4) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to a statute, rule or regulation refers to the same (including any successor statute, rule or regulation thereto) as it may be amended from time to time; and (5) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104. "Additional Securities" has the meaning set forth in the form of the Securities contained in Section 203. "Adjusted Treasury Rate" has the meaning set forth in the form of the Securities contained in Section 203. "Affiliate" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agent Member" means any member of, or participant in, DTC. "Applicable Adjustment Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in the form of Securities in Section 203. "Applicable Procedures" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of DTC applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time. "Attributable Value" in respect of any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction means, as of the time of determination, the lesser of (i) the sale price of the Principal Property so leased multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the remaining portion of the base term of the lease included in such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction and the denominator of which is the base term of such lease, and (ii) the total obligation (discounted to present value at the rate of interest applicable to the Securities then Outstanding at the time of determination compounded quarterly) of the lessee for rental payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of - 2 -
property taxes as well as maintenance, repairs, insurance, water rates and other items which do not constitute payments for property rights) during the remaining portion of the base term of the lease included in such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction. "Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities. "Bankruptcy Law" means, Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy," as now and hereafter in effect, or any successor statute or any other United States federal, state or local law or law of any other jurisdiction relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, winding up, liquidation, reorganization or relief of debtors, whether in effect on the date hereof or hereafter. "Board of Directors" means, with respect to the Company, either the board of directors of the Company or any committee of that board duly authorized to act for it in respect hereof, and with respect to any Subsidiary Guarantor, either the board of directors of such Subsidiary Guarantor or any committee of that board duly authorized to act for it in respect hereof. "Board Resolution" means, with respect to the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor, a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, to have been duly adopted by its Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee. "Business Day" means, with respect to any particular place, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, other than any such day on which banking institutions in The City of New York, New York or London, England are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close and with respect to any due date for the payment of principal or interest in respect of any Security, a day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets are open for general business in the place of presentation. "Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, S.A. "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person. "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. "Comparable Treasury Issue" has the meaning set forth in the form of the Securities contained in Section 203. - 3 -
"Comparable Treasury Price" has the meaning set forth in the form of the Securities contained in Section 203. "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" of the Company means the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any indebtedness for money borrowed having a maturity of less than 12 months from the date of the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company but which by its terms is renewable or extendable beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the borrower) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and any other like intangibles, all as set forth on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and computed in accordance with GAAP. "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date of the execution of this Indenture is located at 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10018-2706, Attention: Issuer Services, or at any other time at such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders. "corporation" means a corporation, association, company, joint stock company, limited liability company, partnership or business trust. "Default" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default. "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307. "Depositary" means, with respect to any Security, a clearing agency trust which is registered as such under the Exchange Act and is designated by the Company to act as Depositary for such Security (or any successor clearing agency as registered). "Distribution Compliance Period" has the meaning specified in Section 201. "dollar" and "$" means the lawful currency of the United States of America. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation. "Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System. "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (including any successor act thereto), as it may be amended from time to time, and (unless the context otherwise requires) includes the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. - 4 -
"Exchange Offer" has the meaning specified in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Exchange Registration Statement" has the meaning specified in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Exchange Security" means any Security issued in exchange for an Original Security or Original Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer and any Security with respect to which the next preceding Predecessor Security of such Security was an Exchange Security. "Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 104. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States consistently applied as in effect on the date of this Indenture. "Global Security" means a Security that is registered in the Security Register in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof. "Holder" means, with respect to any Security, a Person in whose name such Security is registered in the Security Register. "Indebtedness" of any Person means (without duplication), with respect to any Person, (i) every obligation of such Person for money borrowed, (ii) every obligation of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) every reimbursement obligation of such Person with respect to letters of credit, bankers' acceptances or similar facilities issued for the account of such Person and (iv) every obligation of the type referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) of another Person the payment of which such Person has guaranteed or is responsible or liable for, directly or indirectly, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise (but only, in the case of clause (iv), to the extent such Person has guaranteed or is responsible or liable for such obligations). "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the Annexes attached to this instrument. "Interest Payment Date" means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on the Securities. "Issue Date" means the date on which the Securities are originally issued. "Lien" means, with respect to any property or assets, any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, security interest, lien, encumbrance, or other security arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever on or with respect to such property or assets (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing). - 5 -
"Liquidated Damages" has the meaning specified in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, exercise of the repurchase right or otherwise. "Moody's" means Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and its successors. "Moody's Adjustment Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in the form of securities in Section 203. "Net Available Proceeds" from any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction by any Person means cash or readily marketable cash equivalents received (including by way of sale or discounting of a note, installment receivable or other receivable, but excluding any other consideration received in the form of assumption by the acquiree of Indebtedness or obligations relating to the properties or assets that are the subject of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or received in any other noncash form) therefrom by such Person, net of (i) all legal, title and recording tax expenses, commissions and other fees and expenses incurred and all Federal, state, provincial, foreign and local taxes required to be accrued as a liability as a consequence of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction; (ii) all payments made by such Person or its Subsidiaries on any Indebtedness which is secured in whole or in part by any such properties and assets in accordance with the terms of any Lien upon or with respect to any such properties and assets or which must, by the terms of such Lien, or in order to obtain a necessary consent to such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or by applicable law, be repaid out of the proceeds from such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction; and (iii) all distributions and other payments made to minority interest holders in Subsidiaries of such Person or joint ventures as a result of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that for purposes of clause (ii) of Section 1008 hereof the amount of Net Available Proceeds to be applied to any acquisition of Principal Properties or retirement of Securities or other Indebtedness shall be reduced by an amount equal to the sum of (A) an amount equal to the redemption price with respect to such Securities delivered within 180 days after the effective date of such Sales and Lease-Back Transaction to the Trustee for retirement and cancellation and (B) the principal amount, plus any premium or fee paid in connection with a redemption in accordance with the terms, of such other Indebtedness voluntarily retired by the Company within such 180-day period, excluding in each case retirements pursuant to mandatory sinking fund or prepayment provisions and payments at maturity. "Non-U.S. Person" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person, as defined in Regulation S. "Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(3). "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant - 6 -
Secretary, of the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, and delivered to the Trustee. "Opinion of Counsel" means, as to the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor, a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor, including counsel employed by the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee, delivered to the Trustee. "Original Securities" means all Securities other than Exchange Securities. "Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, EXCEPT: (i) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; (ii) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor (if the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor shall act as a Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; PROVIDED that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption shall have been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made; and (iii) Securities that have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date, Securities owned by the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company, of any Subsidiary Guarantor or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities that a responsible officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company, a Subsidiary Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company, of any Subsidiary Guarantor or of such other obligor. - 7 -
"Participant" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream). "Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company and, as of the date of this Indenture, shall include the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in the City of Boston. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity. "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security. "Principal Property" means any real property or any permanent improvement thereon owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries including, without limitation, any office, store, warehouse, manufacturing facility or plant or any portion thereof, and any equipment located at or comprising a part of any such property, having a net book value, as of the date of determination, in excess of 1% of the most recently calculated Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company. "Principal Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary which owns any Principal Property. "Qualified Institutional Buyer" or "QIB" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 144A under the Securities Act. "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture. "Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" has the meaning set forth in the form of the Securities contained in Section 203. "Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers dated as of September 30 , 2002, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms and, with respect to any Additional Securities, one or more registration rights agreements between the Company and the other parities thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights - 8 -
given by the Company to the purchaser of Additional Securities to register such Additional Securities under the Securities Act. "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date means the fifteenth day (regardless of whether a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date. "Regulation S" means Regulation S under the Securities Act. "Regulation S Certificate" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Annex B. "Regulation S Global Security" has the meaning specified in Section 201. "Regulation S Legend" means a legend substantially in the form of the legend required in the form of Security set forth in Section 202 to be placed on each Regulation S Security. "Regulation S Securities" means all Securities required pursuant to Section 305(b) to bear a Regulation S legend. Such term includes the Regulation S Global Security. "Responsible Officer" shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the Corporate Trust Office, including any Vice President, Managing Director, Assistant Vice President, Secretary, Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers, and also, with respect to a particular matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge and familiarity with the particular subject. "Restricted Global Security" has the meaning specified in Section 201. "Restricted Period" means the period of 41 consecutive days beginning on and including the later of (i) the day on which Securities are first offered to persons other than distributors (as defined in Regulation S) in reliance on Regulation S and (ii) the day on which the closing of the offering of Securities pursuant to the Purchase Agreement occurs. "Restricted Securities" means all Securities required pursuant to Section 305(c) to bear a Restricted Securities Legend. Such term includes the Restricted Global Security. "Restricted Securities Certificate" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Annex A. "Restricted Securities Legend" means a legend substantially in the form of the legend required in the form of Security set forth in Section 202 to be placed on each Restricted Security. "Rule 144" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act. - 9 -
"Rule 144A" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A Securities" means all the Securities initially distributed in connection with the offering of Securities by the Initial Purchasers in reliance upon Rule 144A. "Sale and Lease-Back Transaction" of any Person means an arrangement with any lender or investor or to which such lender or investor is a party providing for the leasing by such Person of any Principal Property that, more than 12 months after (i) the completion of the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such Principal Property or (ii) the placing in operation of such Principal Property or of such Principal Property as so constructed, developed or improved, has been or is being sold, conveyed, transferred or otherwise disposed of by such Person to such lender or investor or to any Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender on the security of such Principal Property. The term of such arrangement, as of any date (the "measurement date"), shall end on the date of the last payment of rent or any other amount due under such arrangement on or prior to the first date after the measurement date on which such arrangement may be terminated by the lessee, at its sole option, without payment of a penalty. "Securities" means the Original Securities and the Exchange Securities and Additional Securities, if any. "Securities Act" means the United States Securities Act of 1933 (including any successor act thereto), as it may be amended from time to time, and (unless the context otherwise requires) includes the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder. "Securities Act Legend" means the Restricted Securities Legend and/or the Regulation S Legend. "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305. "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., and its successors. "S&P Adjustment Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in the form of Securities in Section 203. "Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of interest is due and payable. "Subsidiary" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or a Person or by one or more other - 10 -
Subsidiaries of the Company or that Person. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency. "Subsidiary Guarantees" means the Guarantees of each Subsidiary Guarantor in the form of Section 205 and as provided in Article Twelve. "Subsidiary Guarantors" means (i) Staples the Office Superstore, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Staples the Office Superstore East, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Staples Contract & Commercial, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Hackensack Funding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Rochester Capital, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and (ii) any successor of the foregoing; in each case (i) and (ii) until such Subsidiary Guarantor ceases to be such in accordance with Section 1203 hereof. "Successor Security" of any particular Security means every Security issued after, and evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by, such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security. "Trust Indenture Act" means the United States Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed, except as provided in Section 905; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean such successor Trustee. "United States" means the United States of America (including the States thereof and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction. "Vice President", when used with respect to the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor or the Trustee, means any vice president, regardless of whether designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president". "Voting Stock" of a Person means all classes of capital stock or other interests (including partnership interests) of such Person then outstanding and normally entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof. "Wholly Owned" means, when used in connection with any Subsidiary, a Subsidiary of which all of the issued and outstanding shares of Voting Stock (except shares required as directors' qualifying shares) are owned by the Company and/or one or more Wholly Owned Subsidiaries. - 11 -
SECTION 102. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES AND OPINIONS. ------------------------------------ Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company and any Subsidiary Guarantor and any other obligor on the Securities, as appropriate, shall each furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required hereunder or under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel if to be given by counsel and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirement set forth in this Indenture. Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include: (1) a statement that each individual or firm signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual or firm, he or it has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or it to express an informed opinion as to whether such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of each such individual or firm, such condition or covenant has been complied with. SECTION 103. FORM OF DOCUMENTS DELIVERED TO TRUSTEE. -------------------------------------- In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents. Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or other obligor, as applicable, may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless - 12 -
such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous. Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument. SECTION 104. ACTS OF HOLDERS; RECORD DATES. ----------------------------- Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action permitted or required by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent of such Holders duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are received by the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient. The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee, the Paying Agent, any Subsidiary Guarantor or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security. The Company may set any day as a record date, written notice of which will be sent to the Trustee, for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities, PROVIDED that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph. If not set by the Company prior to the first - 13 -
solicitation of a Holder made by any Person in respect of any such matter referred to in the foregoing sentence, the record date for any such matter shall be the 30th day (or, if later, the date of the most recent list of Holders required to be provided pursuant to Section 701) prior to such first solicitation. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; PROVIDED that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be canceled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 106. The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 502, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 507(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 512. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; PROVIDED that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be canceled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 106. With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto that sets such record dates may designate any day as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; PROVIDED that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities in the manner set forth in Section 106, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph. Notwith- - 14 -
standing the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th day after the applicable record date. Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount. SECTION 105. NOTICES, ETC., TO TRUSTEE, COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS. ------------------------------------------------------------ Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, (1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee and received at its Corporate Trust Office, or (2) the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid, in the case of the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company and, in the case of any Subsidiary Guarantor, to it at the address of the Company's principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument, Attention Chief Financial Officer, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by such Subsidiary Guarantor. The Company and any Subsidiary Guarantor shall promptly transmit to the Trustee any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act received from any Holder. SECTION 106. NOTICE TO HOLDERS; WAIVER. ------------------------- Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register on the date such notice is mailed not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall - 15 -
be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. Except as otherwise provided herein, all notices to Holders will be valid if published in a leading English language daily newspaper or newspapers published in New York City or such other English language daily newspaper with general circulation in the United States, as the Trustee may approve. Any notice will be deemed to have been given on the date of publication or, if so published more than once or on different dates, on the date of the first publication. It is expected that publication will normally be made in the WALL STREET JOURNAL (New York edition). If publication as provided above is not practicable, notice will be given in such other manner, and will be deemed to have been given on such date, as the Trustee may approve. SECTION 107. CONFLICT WITH TRUST INDENTURE ACT. --------------------------------- This Indenture, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee shall be deemed for all purposes hereof to be subject to and governed by the Trust Indenture Act to the same extent as would be the case if this Indenture were so qualified on the date hereof. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be. SECTION 108. EFFECT OF HEADINGS AND TABLE OF CONTENTS. ---------------------------------------- The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of any provision hereof. SECTION 109. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. ---------------------- All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company and any Subsidiary Guarantor shall bind their successors and assigns, regardless of whether so expressed. SECTION 110. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE. ------------------- In case any provision in this Indenture, the Securities or the Subsidiary Guarantees shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. - 16 -
SECTION 111. BENEFITS OF INDENTURE. --------------------- Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities or the Subsidiary Guarantees, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, the Holders of Securities and their respective successors hereunder any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture. SECTION 112. GOVERNING LAW. ------------- THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES AND THE SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES ENDORSED THEREON SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. SECTION 113. LEGAL HOLIDAYS. -------------- If any Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, other than at Maturity, for any Security would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day. If the Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities) payment of interest or principal need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made at the Stated Maturity of such Security, PROVIDED that no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Stated Maturity. SECTION 114. AGENT FOR SERVICE; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION; WAIVER OF IMMUNITIES. -------------------------------------------------------- By the execution and delivery of this Indenture, each of the Company, Staples the Office Superstore East, Inc., Staples Contract & Commercial, Inc., Hackensack Funding, LLC and Rochester Capital, LLC (i) acknowledges that it has, by separate written instrument, irrevocably designated and appointed CT Corporation System as its authorized agent upon which process may be served in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Securities, the Subsidiary Guarantees or this Indenture that may be instituted in any Federal or State court in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York or brought under Federal or State securities laws or brought by the Trustee in its capacity as a trustee hereunder, and acknowledges that CT Corporation System has accepted such designation, (ii) submits to the jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit or proceeding and waives, to the extent possible, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such proceeding or any claim of inconvenient forum, and (iii) agrees that service of process upon CT Corporation System shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit or proceeding. The Company and each such Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees to take any and all action, including the execution and filing of any and all such documents and instruments, as may be necessary to continue such designation and appointment of CT Corporation System in full force and effect so long as this Indenture shall be in full force and effect and for the continuous period from the date - 17 -
hereof through and including the date which is 550 calendar days after the date upon which the last of the Securities shall be outstanding. The Trustee agrees to mail or deliver a copy of any service referred to in (iii) above to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company at its principal office at the address set out on page 1 of this Indenture or at any other address previously notified in writing to the Trustee. To the extent that the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor has or hereafter may acquire any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service of notice, attachment before judgment, attachment in aid of execution or otherwise) with respect to itself or its property, it hereby irrevocably waives such immunity in respect of its respective obligations under this Indenture and the Securities to the fullest extent permitted by law. ARTICLE TWO Security Forms SECTION 201. FORMS GENERALLY. --------------- The Securities, the Subsidiary Guarantees to be endorsed thereon and the Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the forms set forth in this Article, with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or depositary thereof or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities or Subsidiary Guarantees, as the case may be, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or Subsidiary Guarantees, as the case may be. Upon their original issuance, Rule 144A Securities shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of the Depositary or its nominee and deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, for credit by the Depositary to the respective accounts of beneficial owners of the Securities represented thereby (or such other accounts as they may direct). Such Global Securities and all other Securities evidencing the debt, or any portion of the debt, initially evidenced by such Global Securities, other than Securities transferred or exchanged upon certification as provided in Section 305, other than the Regulation S Global Securities, are collectively herein called the "Restricted Global Securities". Upon their original issuance, Regulation S Securities shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of the Depositary, or its nominee and deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of the Securities represented thereby (or such other accounts as they may direct), PROVIDED that upon such deposit all such Securities shall be credited to or through accounts maintained by the Depositary by or on behalf of Euroclear or Clearstream. Such Global Securities are collectively herein called the "Regulation S Global Securities". - 18 -
The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Securities that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream. The definitive Securities and Subsidiary Guarantees shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities or Subsidiary Guarantees, as the case may be, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or Subsidiary Guarantees, as the case may be. In certain cases described elsewhere herein, the legends set forth in the first three paragraphs of Section 202 may be omitted from Securities issued hereunder. Rule 144A Global Securities and Regulation S Global Securities substantially in the form of Security set forth in Sections 202 and 203 with such applicable legends as are provided for in Section 202, except as otherwise permitted herein. SECTION 202. FORM OF FACE OF SECURITY. ------------------------ [INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A RESTRICTED SECURITY - THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT WITHIN TWO YEARS AFTER THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THIS SECURITY RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY EXCEPT (A) TO STAPLES, INC. (THE "COMPANY") OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (D) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (E) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), OR (F) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL GIVE TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY - 19 -
TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND. AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTIONS," "UNITED STATES" AND "U.S. PERSON" HAVE THE MEANING GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. [IF REGULATION S SECURITIES, THEN INSERT - THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, ANY U.S. PERSON IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH LAWS.] - 20 -
STAPLES, INC. 7.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2012 CUSIP NO. __________ No. __________ $________ Staples, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the state of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to __________________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of _____________________ Dollars (which principal amount may from time to time be increased or decreased to such other principal amounts by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee hereinafter referred to in accordance with the Indenture) on October 1, 2012, and to pay interest thereon from September 30, 2002 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year commencing April 1, 2003 at the rate of 7.375% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, and to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable at the interest rate then in effect on any overdue principal and on any overdue installment of interest and Liquidated Damages (as defined below) until paid. [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: The Company shall also pay liquidated damages ("Liquidated Damages") in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The interest [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: and Liquidated Damages] so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the fifteenth day (regardless of whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. If any Interest Payment Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, it shall be postponed to the following Business Day. Any such interest [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: and Liquidated Damages] not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: and Liquidated Damages] on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee or any Paying Agent maintained for that purpose in the City of New York, New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that at the option of the - 21 -
Company payment of interest [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: and Liquidated Damages] may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. - 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal. Dated: STAPLES, INC. By:________________________________ Name: Title: Attest: - ----------------------------------- Name: Title: SECTION 203. FORM OF REVERSE OF SECURITY. --------------------------- This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 7.375% Senior Notes due 2012 (herein called the Securities), limited initially (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $325,000,000, issued and to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 30, 2002 (herein called the Indenture), which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein), and HSBC Bank USA, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture). The Securities will be unlimited in aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders, create and issue additional Securities (the Additional Securities) ranking equally with the Securities and otherwise similar in all respects so that the Additional Securities shall be consolidated and form a single series with the Securities. The Company may not issue Additional Securities if an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing with respect to the Securities. [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: The Company may register a security substantially identical to this Security (except that such Security will not contain terms with respect to the payment of Liquidated Damages in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement (as described on the face of this Security) or transfer restrictions) pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or, in lieu thereof, a Shelf Registration Statement (as such terms are defined in the Registration Rights Agreement).] Reference is hereby made to the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. At any time on or after the Issue Date, the interest payable on the Securities will be subject to adjustment from time to time if either Moody's Investors Services, Inc. ("Moody's) or Standard - 23 -
& Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw Hill, Inc. ("Standard & Poor's) reduces its rating assigned to the Securities below Baa2, in the case of Moody's, or below BBB-, in the case of Standard & Poor's, and in the event of subsequent upgrades or downgrades by either Moody's or Standard & Poor's, the coupon interest rate on the Securities will be further adjusted. The table below illustrates the range of adjustments. The coupon interest rate on the Securities will be equal to the initial coupon interest rate of 7.375% plus the sum of the applicable Moody's adjustment amount (the "Moody's Adjustment Amount") and the applicable Standard & Poor's adjustment amount (the S&P Adjustment Amount", and together with the Moody's Adjustment Amount, the "Applicable Adjustment Amount") set forth in the table below; provided, however that the maximum Applicable Adjustment Amount shall be 1.25% and in no event shall the coupon interest exceed 8.625%. In no event shall the coupon interest rate payable on this Security be less than 7.375%. If either Moody's or Standard & Poor's changes the ratings on the Securities, the interest rate on the Securities will be re-adjusted in accordance with the table below: The Moody's Adjustment Amount and the Standard & Poor's Adjustment Amount are independent of each other and any payments of Liquidated Damages. Any interest rate increase or decrease on this Security as a consequence of a change in the ratings assigned to this series of Securities by Moody's and/or Standard & Poor's as described herein, shall take effect on the Interest Payment Date following such ratings change. If Moody's or Standard & Poor's changes the rating categories that they currently use, then the references to those categories in this section shall refer to the appropriate successor rating categories. [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: In addition to the rights provided under the Indenture, Holders of Securities shall have the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2002, among the Company and the parties named on the signature pages thereof (the "Registration Rights Agreement").] The Securities are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by mail, at any time, as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed, plus - 24 -
accrued interest and Liquidated Damages to the Redemption Date, and (b) as determined by the Reference Treasury Dealer, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal, interest and Liquidated Damages on the Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of payments of interest or Liquidated Damages accrued as of the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis at the Adjusted Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus accrued interest and Liquidated Damages to the Redemption Date. The Redemption Price will be calculated assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. "Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities that would be utilized, at the time of the selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date: (a) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for the Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (b) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received, or (c) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such Quotation. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (a) each of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney Inc. (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers), and their respective successors, PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if any of them ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (b) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding that Redemption Date. In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. The Securities do not have the benefit of any sinking fund obligations. - 25 -
In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security (including upon an exchange, transfer, redemption or repurchase of this Security in part only) effected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, the Security Registrar, upon receipt of notice of such event from the Depositary's custodian for this Security, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect an increase or decrease of the Outstanding principal amount of this Security resulting from such deposit or withdrawal, as the case may be. [IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, THEN INSERT: In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security (including upon an exchange or transfer of this Security) effected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, the Security Registrar, upon receipt of notice of such event from the Depositary's custodian for this Security, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect an increase or decrease of the Outstanding principal amount of this Security resulting from such deposit or withdrawal, as the case may be.] Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, at any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, upon the request of a Holder of a Restricted Security, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder of Restricted Securities, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such Holder or holder, as the case may be, to the extent required to permit compliance by any such holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto). If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the obligations of the Company under the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and this Security are guaranteed pursuant to Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed hereon as provided in the Indenture. Each Holder, by holding this Security, agrees to all of the terms and provisions of said Subsidiary Guarantees. The Indenture provides that a Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from its Subsidiary Guarantee upon compliance with certain conditions. Unless the context otherwise requires, the Original Securities (as defined in the Indenture) and the Exchange Securities (as defined in the Indenture) shall constitute one series for all purposes under the Indenture, including without limitation, amendments, waivers and redemptions. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount - 26 -
of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security and the Liquidated Damages in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Trustee, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors or the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. THE INDENTURE, THIS SECURITY AND THE SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE ENDORSED HEREON SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. - 27 -
SECTION 204. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS REQUIRED IN GLOBAL SECURITY. ------------------------------------------------- Any Global Security issued hereunder shall, in addition to the provisions contained in Sections 202 and 203, bear a legend in substantially the following form: [IF A GLOBAL SECURITY, INSERT - THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.] [IF A GLOBAL SECURITY TO BE HELD BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, INSERT - UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY A PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.] SECTION 205. FORM OF TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION. ----------------------------------------------- This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. HSBC BANK USA, AS TRUSTEE By:________________________________ AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE SECTION 206. FORM OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE. ---------------------------- SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE For value received, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors named below hereby jointly and severally fully and unconditionally guarantees to the Holder of the Security upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed, and to the Trustee on behalf of such Holder, pursuant to the - 28 -
Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: and the Registration Rights Agreement] and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, regardless of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Securities or the obligations of the Company under the Indenture or the Securities, that: (i) the principal of and interest on the Securities, and any Liquidated Damages payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Securities, to the extent lawful, and all other payment obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee thereunder, under the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: or the Registration Rights Agreement] will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms thereof, of the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: and of the Registration Rights Agreement]; and (ii) in case of any extension of time for payment or renewal of any Securities, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that this Subsidiary Guarantee would constitute or result in a violation of any applicable fraudulent conveyance or similar law of any relevant jurisdiction, the liability of each Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture and its Subsidiary Guarantee shall be reduced to the maximum amount permissible under such fraudulent conveyance or similar law. If the Company shall default in the due and punctual payment of any obligation under the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: or the Registration Rights Agreement], including under the Securities, without the necessity of action by the Trustee or any Holder of Securities, the Subsidiary Guarantor will promptly and fully make such payments in the same manner as required to have been made by the Company. To the extent permitted by law, the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall be continuing, absolute and unconditional, and shall not be impaired, modified, released or limited by any occurrence or condition whatsoever, including, without limitation, (i) any compromise, settlement, release, waiver, renewal, extension, indulgence or modification of, or any change in, any of the obligations and liabilities of the Company contained in the Securities, the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: or the Registration Rights Agreement] or of any other Subsidiary Guarantor contained in the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: or the Registration Rights Agreement], (ii) any impairment, modification, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or of any other Subsidiary Guarantor in bankruptcy, or any remedy for the enforcement thereof, resulting from the operation of any present or future provision of any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws or from the decision of any court, (iii) the assertion or exercise by the Company, any other Subsidiary Guarantor, or the Trustee of any rights or remedies under the Securities or the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: or the Registration Rights Agreement] or their delay in or failure to assert or exercise any such rights or remedies, (iv) the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets, marshaling of assets and liabilities, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, - 29 -
composition or readjustment of, or other similar proceeding affecting, the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor or any of their assets, or the disaffirmance of the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: , the Registration Rights Agreement] or the Securities in any such proceeding, (v) the release or discharge of the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor from the performance or observance of any agreement, covenant, term or condition contained in any of such instruments by operation of law, (vi) the unenforceability of the Securities, the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: or the Registration Rights Agreement] or (vii) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor. Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby (i) waives diligence, presentment, demand for payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of the merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company or to realize on any collateral, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever with respect to the payment obligations of the Company under the Indenture, (ii) agrees that its obligations hereunder constitute a guarantee of payment and not of collection and are not in any way conditional or contingent upon any attempt to collect from or enforce against the Company or upon any other condition or contingency, (iii) acknowledges that any agreement, instrument or document evidencing the obligations of the Company under the Indenture may be transferred and that the benefit of its obligations hereunder shall extend to each holder of any agreement, instrument or document evidencing such obligations without notice to them and (iv) covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the payment obligations under the Securities and the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: and the Registration Rights Agreement]. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that if at any time all or any part of any payment therefore applied by any person to any payment obligation is, or must be, rescinded or returned for any reason whatsoever, including, without limitation, the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor, such obligation shall for the purposes of the Subsidiary Guarantee, to the extent that such payment is or must be rescinded or returned, be deemed to have continued in existence notwithstanding such application, and the Subsidiary Guarantee made pursuant to the Indenture shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, as to such payment obligation as though such application had not been made. Each Subsidiary Guarantor shall, to the extent of any payment made by it pursuant to the Indenture [IF ORIGINAL SECURITIES, THEN INSERT: or the Registration Rights Agreement], be subrogated to all rights of the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities as to all payments and damages payable by the Company with respect to which payments have been made by such Subsidiary Guarantor, but, so long as any payment obligation remains outstanding, such right of subrogation on the part of such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be subject to the payment in full or discharge of all such payment obligations. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any other non-paying Subsidiary Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders or the Trustee under the Subsidiary Guarantees made pursuant to the Indenture. The Subsidiary Guarantors or any particular Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released from this Subsidiary Guarantee upon the terms and subject to certain conditions provided in the - 30 -
Indenture. By delivery of a Supplemental Indenture to the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, each Person that becomes a Subsidiary Guarantor after the date of the Indenture will be deemed to have executed and delivered this Subsidiary Guarantee for the benefit of the Holder of the Security upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed with the same effect as if such Subsidiary Guarantor was named below and has executed and delivered this Subsidiary Guarantee. All terms used in this Subsidiary Guarantee which are defined in the Indenture referred to in the Security upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed shall have the meanings assigned to them in such Indenture. This Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Security upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed shall have been executed by the Trustee under the Indenture by manual signature. Reference is made to the Indenture for further provisions with respect to this Subsidiary Guarantee. THIS SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. - 31 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors has caused this Subsidiary Guarantee to be duly executed. [Insert Names of Subsidiary Guarantors] By________________________ Name: Title: ARTICLE THREE The Securities SECTION 301. TITLE AND TERMS. --------------- The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is initially limited to $325,000,000.00, and, subject to prior authorization by a Board Resolution, Additional Securities of the same series which may be issued subsequently, except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306 or 906. The Company may issue Exchange Securities from time to time pursuant to an Exchange Offer, in each case pursuant to a Board Resolution, subject to Section 303, included in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, in authorized denominations in exchange for a like principal amount of Original Securities. Upon any such exchange the Original Securities shall be canceled in accordance with Section 309 and shall no longer be deemed Outstanding for any purpose. The Securities shall be known and designated as the 7.375%% Senior Notes due 2012 of the Company. Their Stated Maturity shall be October 1, 2012, and they shall bear interest from September 30, 2002, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may be, at a per annum interest rate of 7.375% subject to an adjustment of such interest rate in accordance with the interest rate mechanicism set forth in the Form of Security set forth in Sections 202 and 203, and further, with respect to Original Securities, subject to the payment of Liquidated Damages in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment; the Company shall notify the Trustee and shall provide the Trustee with the amount of Liquidated Damages to be paid by the Company on such Interest Payment Date upon the occurrence of an event pursuant to which the Company is required to pay Liquidated Damages in accordance with terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, or reduce the payment of any such Liquidated Damages. The principal of, interest and Liquidated Damages on the Securities shall be payable at the office or agency of the Trustee or any Paying Agent in the City of New York, New York maintained for such purpose and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such - 32 -
purpose; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by dollar check drawn on a bank in The City of New York, New York mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register, or if a Holder has given transfer instructions to the Company, in dollars by credit or transfer to a dollar-denominated account (or any other account to which dollars may be credited or transferred) specified by the payee. The Company will pay principal on any Security upon presentation and surrender of the Security at the specified office of the Paying Agent or any additional or substitute paying agent by a dollar check drawn on a bank in The City of New York, New York. The Securities shall be guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors as provided in Article Twelve. The Securities shall not have the benefit of any sinking fund obligations. Unless the context otherwise requires, the Original Securities and the Exchange Securities shall constitute one series for all purposes under this Indenture, including without limitation, amendments, waivers and redemptions. The Company will pay all stamp taxes and other duties, if any, which may be imposed by the Unites States or any political subdivision thereof or taxing authority thereof or therein with respect to the execution or delivery of this Indenture, the issuance of the Global Securities or the exchange from time to time of Global Securities. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in ratings assigned to the Notes by Moody's or S&P. SECTION 302. DENOMINATIONS. ------------- The Securities shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. SECTION 303. EXECUTION, AUTHENTICATION, DELIVERY AND DATING. ---------------------------------------------- The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its President, its Chief Financial Officer or one of its Vice Presidents, under a facsimile of its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities. - 33 -
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Additional Securities executed by the Company and having endorsed thereon the Subsidiary Guarantees executed as provided in Section 1202 by the Subsidiary Guarantors to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Additional Securities with such Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon; and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Additional Securities with such Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon as in this Indenture provided and not otherwise. At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture and after the effectiveness of an Exchange Registration Statement under the Securities Act with respect thereto, the Company may deliver Exchange Securities executed by the Company and having endorsed thereon the Subsidiary Guarantees to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Exchange Securities and a like principal amount of Original Securities for cancellation in accordance with Section 309 of this Indenture, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. In authenticating such Exchange Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating, (a) the Exchange Securities have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and, when duly authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to the Holders of Original Securities in exchange for a like principal amount of Original Securities, will be duly issued and delivered and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms. (b) the Exchange Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and, to our knowledge, (i) no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Registration Statement or suspending or preventing the use of the prospectus contained as part of the Registration Statement has been issued and (ii) no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or threatened by the Commission. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. No Security or Subsidiary Guarantee shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. The Company shall be entitled, subject to Section 301, to issue Additional Securities under this Indenture which shall have identical terms as the Securities issued on the Issue Date, other than with respect to the date of issuance, issue price and amount of interest payable on the first payment date applicable to such series. The Securities issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Securities shall be treated as a single series for all purposes under this Indenture. With respect to any Additional Securities, the Company shall provide the Trustee - 34 -
with appropriate evidence that the Additional Securities have been duly authorized and issued and set forth in a Board Resolution and an Officers' Certificate or such other appropriate evidence that the Additional Securities have been duly authorized and issued, a copy of each of which shall be delivered to the Trustee, containing the following information: (1) the aggregate principal amount of such Additional Securities to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture; and (2) the issue price, the issue date and the common code, CUSIP and ISIN numbers of such Additional Securities and the amount of interest payable on the first payment date applicable thereto; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no Additional Securities may be issued at a price that would cause such Additional Securities to have "original issue discount" within the meaning of Section 1273 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. SECTION 304. TEMPORARY SECURITIES. -------------------- Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and upon receipt of a Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and having endorsed thereon the Subsidiary Guarantees substantially of the tenor of the definitive Subsidiary Guarantees in lieu of which they are issued duly executed by the Subsidiary Guarantors and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities and Subsidiary Guarantees may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities and Subsidiary Guarantees. If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at any office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to Section 1002, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations and like tenor having endorsed thereon Subsidiary Guarantees executed by the Subsidiary Guarantors. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities. SECTION 305. REGISTRATION, REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER AND EXCHANGE. --------------------------------------------------- (a) The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency designated pursuant to Section 1002 being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided. - 35 -
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security at an office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to Section 1002 for such purpose, and subject to the other provisions of this Section 305, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount. Such Security Register shall distinguish between Original Securities and Exchange Securities. At the option of the Holder, and subject to the other provisions of this Section 305, Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, and subject to the other provisions of this Section 305, the Company shall execute, the Subsidiary Guarantors shall execute the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. All Securities and the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company and the respective Subsidiary Guarantors, evidencing the same debt and Subsidiary Guarantees, and subject to the other provisions of this Section 305, entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities and Subsidiary Guarantees surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304 or 906 not involving any transfer. The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities selected for redemption under Section 1104 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part. (b) CERTAIN TRANSFERS AND EXCHANGES. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or the Securities, transfers and exchanges of Securities and beneficial interests in Global Securities of the kinds specified in this Section 305(b) shall be made only in accordance with this Section 305(b). Transfers and exchanges subject to this Section 305(b) shall also be subject to the other provisions of this Indenture that are not inconsistent with this Section 305(b). - 36 -
(1) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS OF A GLOBAL SECURITY. -------------------------------------------- (i) GENERAL RESTRICTIONS ON GLOBAL SECURITIES. A Global Security may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than a Depositary or nominee or nominees therefor, and no such transfer to any such other Person may be registered; provided that this clause (1) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Security that is issued in exchange for a Global Security but is not itself a Global Security. No transfer of a Security to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Securities unless and until such Security has been registered in the name of such Person. Nothing in this Section 305(b)(1) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery in the form of another Security that is not a Global Security as provided in Section 305(a), PROVIDED that, if the Security to be transferred in whole or in part is a Restricted Security, or is a Regulation S Security and the transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period, then the Trustee shall have received (i) a Restricted Securities Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Restricted Security or (ii) a Regulation S Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Regulation S Security. (ii) RESTRICTED GLOBAL SECURITY TO REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY. If the owner of a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security wishes at any time to transfer such interest to a Person who wishes to acquire the same in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security, such transfer may be effected only in accordance with the provisions of this Section 305(b)(ii) and Section 305(b)(iv) below and subject to the Applicable Procedures. Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Security Registrar, of (i) an order given by the Depositary or its authorized representative directing that a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security in a specified principal amount be credited to a specified Agent Member's account and that a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security in an equal amount be debited from another specified Agent Member's account and (ii) a Regulation S Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the Holder of such Restricted Global Security or his attorney in fact duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Security Registrar but subject to Section 305(b)(iv) below, shall reduce the principal amount of such Restricted Global Security and increase the principal amount of such Regulation S Global Security by such specified principal amount. (iii) REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY TO RESTRICTED GLOBAL SECURITY. If the owner of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security wishes at any time to transfer such interest to a Person who wishes to acquire the same in the form of a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security, - 37 -
such transfer may be effected only in accordance with this Section 305 (b)(iii) and subject to the Applicable Procedures. Upon receipt by the Trustee, as Security Registrar, of (i) an order given by the Depositary or its authorized representative directing that a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security in a specified principal amount be credited to a specified Agent Member's account and that a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security in an equal principal amount be debited from another specified Agent Member's account and (ii) if such transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period, a Restricted Securities Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the Holder of such Regulation S Global Security or his attorney in fact duly authorized in writing, then the Trustee, as Security Registrar, shall reduce the principal amount of such Regulation S Global Security and increase the principal amount of such Restricted Global Security by such specified principal amount. (iv) REGULATION S GLOBAL SECURITY TO BE HELD THROUGH EUROCLEAR OR CLEARSTREAM DURING RESTRICTED PERIOD. The Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Depositary to ensure that, until the expiration of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Security may be held only in or through accounts maintained at the Depositary by Euroclear and Clearstream (or by Agent Members acting for the account thereof), and no person shall be entitled to effect any transfer or exchange that would result in any such interest being held otherwise than in or through such an account; provided that this Section 305(b)(iv) shall not prohibit any transfer or exchange of such an interest in accordance with Section 305(b)(iii) above. (v) EXCHANGE SECURITIES. Nothing in this Indenture shall prohibit the exchange by any holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Exchange Security if such exchange is made pursuant to, and in accordance with the terms of, the Registration Rights Agreement. (2) EXCHANGES. In the event that a Restricted Global Security or any portion thereof is exchanged for Securities other than Global Securities, such other Securities may in turn be exchanged (on transfer or otherwise) for Securities that are not Global Securities or for beneficial interests in a Global Security (if any is then outstanding) only in accordance with such procedures, which shall be substantially consistent with the provisions of clause (1) above and any Applicable Procedures, as may be from time to time adopted by the Company and the Trustee. (c) Each Restricted Security and Global Security issued hereunder shall, upon issuance, bear the legends required by Section 202 to be applied to such a Security and such required legends shall not be removed from such Security except as provided in the next sentence or paragraph (d) of this Section 305. The legend required for - 38 -
a Restricted Security may be removed from a Security if there is delivered to the Company such satisfactory evidence, which may include an opinion of independent counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company that neither such legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers of such Security will not violate the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Upon provision of such satisfactory evidence, the Trustee, at the written direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver in exchange for such Security another Security or Securities having an equal aggregate principal amount that does not bear such legend. If such a legend required for a Restricted Security has been removed from a Security as provided above, no other Security issued in exchange for all or any part of such Security shall bear such legend, unless the Company has reasonable cause to believe that such other Security is a "restricted security" within the meaning of Rule 144 and instructs the Trustee in writing to cause a legend to appear thereon. (d) The provisions of clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Securities: (1) Each Global Security authenticated under this Indenture shall be registered in the name of a Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof and delivered to such depositary or a nominee thereof, and each such Global Security shall constitute a single Security for all purposes of this Indenture. (2) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture or the Securities, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than a Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (A) the Company notifies the Trustee in writing that DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream is no longer willing or able to act as a depositary or clearing system for such Global Security or DTC ceases to be registered as a clearing agency trust which is registered as such under the Exchange Act, (B) the Depositary is closed for business for a continuous period of 14 days (other than by reason of statutory or other holidays), (C) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of certificated Securities or (D) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Security. Any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (A) or (B) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (C) or (D) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Company or the Trustee. Any Security issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be a Global Security, provided that any such Security so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than DTC or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Security. (3) Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof pursuant to clause (2) above shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate principal amount equal to that of such Global Security or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be - 39 -
registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear any legends required hereunder. Any Global Security to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Security Registrar. With regard to any Global Security to be exchanged in part, either such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Security, the principal amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery the Security issuable on such exchange to or upon the written order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof. (4) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (2) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of certificated Securities in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons. (5) No Agent Members nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security (including DTC and account holders and participants therein unless DTC, or its nominee is the registered holder of such Global Security), or under any Global Security, and the registered holder thereof may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by DTC or a nominee thereof, as the case may be, or impair, as between DTC, its Agent Members and any other person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security. SECTION 306. MUTILATED, DESTROYED, LOST AND STOLEN SECURITIES. ------------------------------------------------ If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute a new Security, the Subsidiary Guarantors shall execute the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount having endorsed thereon the Subsidiary Guarantees executed by the Subsidiary Guarantors and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its request - 40 -
the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount having endorsed thereon the Subsidiary Guarantees executed by the Subsidiary Guarantors and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security. Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security, and the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and the respective Subsidiary Guarantors, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security and the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder. The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities. SECTION 307. PAYMENT OF INTEREST; INTEREST RIGHTS PRESERVED. ---------------------------------------------- Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Liquidated Damages, if any, shall be paid in the same manner in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement. Any interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below: (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of - 41 -
Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Trustee from the funds deposited by the Company as herein above provided to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2). (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security. SECTION 308. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS. --------------------- Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and (subject to Section 307) interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. - 42 -
SECTION 309. CANCELLATION. ------------ All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of as directed by a Company Order. SECTION 310. COMPUTATION OF INTEREST. ----------------------- Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed divided by 360. SECTION 311. CUSIP/COMMON CODE/ISIN NUMBER. ----------------------------- The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP", "common code" and/or "ISIN" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP", "common code" and/or "ISIN" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; PROVIDED that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP", "common code" or "ISIN" numbers. ARTICLE FOUR Satisfaction and Discharge SECTION 401. SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE. --------------------------------------- This Indenture shall, upon request by the Company, cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when - 43 -
(1) either (A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or (B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (i) have become due and payable, (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or (iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company, and the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for such purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; (2) the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors; and (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture pursuant to this Article Four, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614, the rights of the Trustee under Section 603 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee - 44 -
under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive. SECTION 402. APPLICATION OF TRUST MONEY. -------------------------- Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and interest (and Liquidated Damages) for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee. ARTICLE FIVE Default and Remedies SECTION 501. EVENTS OF DEFAULT. ----------------- "Event of Default", wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body): (1) default in the payment of the principal of any Security at its Maturity; or (2) default in the payment of any interest or Liquidated Damages upon any Security when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or (3) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors in this Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or (4) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable United States Federal - 45 -
or State or other applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor under any applicable Federal or State or other applicable law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of the affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (5) the commencement by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable United States Federal or State or other applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State or other applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or the filing by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State or other applicable law, or the consent by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor or of any substantial part of the property of the Company or Subsidiary Guarantor, or the making by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in furtherance of any such action. SECTION 502. ACCELERATION OF MATURITY; RESCISSION AND ANNULMENT. -------------------------------------------------- If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 501(4) or (5)) occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or any Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may declare the principal of all the Securities to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal and any accrued interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(4) or (5) occurs, the principal of and any accrued interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) on the Securities then Outstanding shall become immediately due and - 46 -
payable without any declaration or other Act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. At any time after such a declaration of acceleration has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if (1) the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay, without duplication, (A) all overdue interest and Liquidated Damages on all Securities, (B) the principal of any Securities which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and, to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest thereon at the rate provided by the Securities, (C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest and Liquidated Damages at the rate provided by the Securities, and (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and (2) all Events of Default, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. SECTION 503. COLLECTION OF INDEBTEDNESS AND SUITS FOR ENFORCEMENT BY TRUSTEE. --------------------------------------------------------------- The Company covenants that if (1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest or Liquidated Damages, as the case may be, becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or (2) default is made in the payment of the principal of any Security at the Maturity thereof, - 47 -
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) , and, to the extent that payment of such interest or Liquidated Damages shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and on any overdue interest, at the rate provided by the Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 607. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy. SECTION 504. TRUSTEE MAY FILE PROOFS OF CLAIM. -------------------------------- In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities, or the property of the Company or its creditors or of any Subsidiary Guarantor and its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607. No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and may be a member of the creditors' committee. - 48 -
SECTION 505. TRUSTEE MAY ENFORCE CLAIMS WITHOUT POSSESSION OF SECURITIES OR SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES. --------------------------------------------------------------- All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantee may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered. SECTION 506. APPLICATION OF MONEY COLLECTED. ------------------------------ Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid: FIRST: To the payment of costs and expenses of collection, including all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses and disbursements of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607; and SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any), respectively. SECTION 507. LIMITATION ON SUITS. ------------------- No Holder of any Security shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default; (2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder; - 49 -
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request; (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities; it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, any Security or any Subsidiary Guarantee, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the Holders. SECTION 508. UNCONDITIONAL RIGHT OF HOLDERS TO RECEIVE PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST. ---------------------------------------------------------------- Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and (subject to Section 307) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder. The Holder of any Security shall have right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of Liquidated Damages in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement. SECTION 509. RESTORATION OF RIGHTS AND REMEDIES. ---------------------------------- If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted. SECTION 510. RIGHTS AND REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. ------------------------------ Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of - 50 -
Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy. SECTION 511. DELAY OR OMISSION NOT WAIVER. ---------------------------- No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be. SECTION 512. CONTROL BY HOLDERS. ------------------ Subject to Article Six, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, PROVIDED that (1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture or any Subsidiary Guarantee, (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and (3) the Trustee need not take any action which might involve it in personal liability or be unduly prejudicial to the Holders of Securities not joining therein, it being understood that the Trustee shall have no duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such holders. SECTION 513. WAIVER OF PAST DEFAULTS. ----------------------- The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities waive any past default hereunder and its consequences, except a default (1) in the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security, or - 51 -
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected. Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture, and the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee and any Holder shall be restored to their former position and rights hereunder, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon. SECTION 514. UNDERTAKING FOR COSTS. --------------------- In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; PROVIDED that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor. SECTION 515. WAIVER OF STAY OR EXTENSION LAWS. -------------------------------- Each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and each of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE SIX The Trustee SECTION 601. CERTAIN DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TRUSTEE. -------------------------------------------------- Except during the continuance of an Event of Default, (1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions - 52 -
expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or indemnity satisfactory to it against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 601. SECTION 602. NOTICE OF DEFAULTS. ------------------ The Trustee shall give the Holders notice of any default actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee hereunder as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(3), no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 90 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default. SECTION 603. CERTAIN RIGHTS OF TRUSTEE. ------------------------- Subject to the provisions of Section 601: (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution; (c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate; - 53 -
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; (e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney; (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents, attorneys, custodians or nominees and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; (h) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights of powers conferred upon it by this Indenture or any action taken, suffered or omitted by it pursuant to a direction of the Company or any Holders pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture; (i) the Trustee shall not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it; and (j) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of any Default or Event of Default except (i) any Event of Default occurring pursuant to Clauses (1) or (2) of the definition of "Event of Default" or (ii) any Default or Event of Default of which Trustee shall have received written notification in accordance with the terms of this Indenture or obtained actual knowledge. - 54 -
SECTION 604. NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR RECITALS OR ISSUANCE OF SECURITIES. ------------------------------------------------------ The recitals contained herein and in the Securities and the Subsidiary Guarantees, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company or the Subsidiary Guarantors, as the case may be, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof. SECTION 605. MAY HOLD SECURITIES. ------------------- The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company and any Subsidiary Guarantor with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent. SECTION 606. MONEY HELD IN TRUST. ------------------- Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be. SECTION 607. COMPENSATION AND REIMBURSEMENT. ------------------------------ The Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor jointly and severally unconditionally agree (1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct; and (3) to indemnify the Trustee, its officers, directors, agents and - 55 -
employees for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture against the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors and defending itself against or investigating any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. This Section 607 shall survive the termination of the Indenture or the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee. To secure the Company's and each Subsidiary Guarantor's payment obligations in this Section 607, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except money or property held in trust to pay principal of, and interest on, particular Securities. When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 501(4) or (5) of this Indenture occurs, such expenses (including the charges and expenses of its agent and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under Bankruptcy Law. SECTION 608. DISQUALIFICATION; CONFLICTING INTERESTS. --------------------------------------- If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. SECTION 609. CORPORATE TRUSTEE REQUIRED; ELIGIBILITY. --------------------------------------- There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus (or the parent holding company of which has a combined capital and surplus) of at least $50,000,000. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person (or parent holding company thereof) shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. - 56 -
SECTION 610. RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL; APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR. ------------------------------------------------- (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee under Section 611. (b) The Trustee may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. (c) The Trustee may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. (d) If at any time: (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee. (e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee and supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and - 57 -
accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. (f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office. SECTION 611. ACCEPTANCE OF APPOINTMENT BY SUCCESSOR. -------------------------------------- Every successor Trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts. No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article. SECTION 612. MERGER, CONVERSION, CONSOLIDATION OR SUCCESSION TO BUSINESS. ----------------------------------------------------------- Any corporation, association or other entity into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation, association or other entity resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, IPSO FACTO shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. - 58 -
SECTION 613. PREFERENTIAL COLLECTION OF CLAIMS AGAINST COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS. ---------------------------------------------------------------- If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company, any Subsidiary Guarantor or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company, such Subsidiary Guarantor or any such other obligor. SECTION 614. APPOINTMENT OF AUTHENTICATING AGENT. ----------------------------------- The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities issued upon original issue and upon exchange registration of transfer, partial redemption or pursuant to Section 306, and Securities so authenticated, and the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon, shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent, except for authentication of original issues or lost, stolen or mutilated securities. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, or authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section. Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent. An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such - 59 -
Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section. The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 607. If an appointment is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form: This is one of the Securities described in the within-mentioned Indenture. HSBC Bank USA, As Trustee By___________________________, As Authenticating Agent By___________________________ Authorized Signature - 60 -
ARTICLE SEVEN Holders' Lists and Reports by Trustee and Company SECTION 701. COMPANY TO FURNISH TRUSTEE NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF HOLDERS. --------------------------------------------------------- The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee: (a) annually, not more than 15 days after each Regular Record Date, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of such Regular Record Date, and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; EXCLUDING from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. SECTION 702. PRESERVATION OF INFORMATION; COMMUNICATIONS TO HOLDERS. ------------------------------------------------------ (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished. (b) The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities and the corresponding rights and duties of the Trustee, shall be provided by the Trust Indenture Act. (c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee that neither the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors nor the Trustee nor any agent of any of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to the names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act. SECTION 703. REPORTS BY TRUSTEE. ------------------ (a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. - 61 -
(b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which the Securities are listed, with the Commission, with the Company and with the Subsidiary Guarantors. The Company will notify the Trustee when the Securities are listed on any stock exchange. SECTION 704. REPORTS BY COMPANY. ------------------ The Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. ARTICLE EIGHT Consolidation, Merger, Conveyance, Transfer or Lease SECTION 801. COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS MAY CONSOLIDATE, ETC. ONLY ON CERTAIN TERMS. ---------------------------------------------------------------- Neither the Company nor a Subsidiary Guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person and neither the Company nor a Subsidiary Guarantor shall permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor, unless: (1) in case the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into another Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or trust, shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Securities or the obligation under the Subsidiary Guarantee, as the case may be, and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement on the part of the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, to be - 62 -
performed or observed; (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; (3) if, as a result of any such consolidation or merger or such conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary would become subject to a mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance which would not be permitted by this Indenture, the Company or such successor Person, as the case may be, on or prior to the effective date of such consolidation, merger or conveyance, shall take such steps as shall be necessary effectively to secure the Securities equally and ratably with (or prior to) all indebtedness secured thereby; and (4) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with. SECTION 802. SUCCESSOR SUBSTITUTED. --------------------- (a) Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any transfer, conveyance, sale, lease or other disposition of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein and therein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement and the Securities. (b) Upon any consolidation of a Subsidiary Guarantor with, or merger of such Subsidiary Guarantor into, any other Person or any transfer, conveyance, sale, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with Section 801, the Successor Subsidiary Guarantor shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, such Subsidiary Guarantor under this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as a Subsidiary Guarantor herein and therein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement and its Subsidiary Guarantee. - 63 -
ARTICLE NINE Supplemental Indentures SECTION 901. SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES WITHOUT CONSENT OF HOLDERS. -------------------------------------------------- Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, the Subsidiary Guarantors, when authorized by their respective Board Resolutions, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes: (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor herein and in the Securities or Subsidiary Guarantee, as the case may be; or (2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or (3) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 1007 or otherwise; or (4) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, PROVIDED such action pursuant to this Clause (4) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders in any material respect. SECTION 902. SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES WITH CONSENT OF HOLDERS. ----------------------------------------------- With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, the Subsidiary Guarantors, when authorized by their respective Board Resolutions, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders under this Indenture; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment - 64 -
of interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable thereon or the amount payable upon redemption thereof, or change the place of payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or the interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or permit the Company to redeem the Securities if, prior to such action, the Company is not permitted to do so, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities required for the adoption of a resolution or the quorum required at any meeting of Holders at which a resolution is adopted, or (3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1010, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, or (4) impair the unconditional nature of the Subsidiary Guarantees, or (5) modify the obligation of the Company to deliver information as set forth in Section 1011. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. SECTION 903. EXECUTION OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES. ------------------------------------ In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and that such supplemental indenture is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company and each of the Subsidiary Guarantors enforceable against them in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions, and complies with the provisions hereof (including Section 905). The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. No supplemental indenture shall modify this Section 903 without the prior consent of the Trustee. - 65 -
SECTION 904. EFFECT OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES. --------------------------------- Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. Promptly after execution by the Company of any supplemental indenture, the Company shall transmit to the Holders a notice setting forth the substance of the supplemental indenture. SECTION 905. CONFORMITY WITH TRUST INDENTURE ACT. ------------------------------------ Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act. SECTION 906. REFERENCE IN SECURITIES TO SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES. -------------------------------------------------- Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantees may be endorsed thereon and such new Securities and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities. ARTICLE TEN Covenants SECTION 1001. PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST. --------------------------------- The Company will duly and punctually pay the principal of and interest (and Liquidated Damages) on the Securities in accordance with the terms of the Securities, the Registration Rights Agreement and this Indenture. SECTION 1002. MAINTENANCE OF OFFICE OR AGENCY. ------------------------------- The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange - 66 -
and where notices and demands to or upon the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the Securities, any Subsidiary Guarantee endorsed thereon and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or outside the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. SECTION 1003. MONEY FOR SECURITY PAYMENTS TO BE HELD IN TRUST. ----------------------------------------------- If the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of, interest or Liquidated Damages on any of the Securities, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal, interest or Liquidated Damages so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act. Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of, interest or Liquidated Damages on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal, interest or Liquidated Damages so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, interest or Liquidated Damages, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act. The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will: (1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of, interest or Liquidated Damages on Securities in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided; - 67 -
(2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment of principal, interest or Liquidated Damages; and (3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent. The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money. Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, interest or Liquidated Damages on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, interest or Liquidated Damages has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in The City of New York, New York (which is expected to be the WALL STREET JOURNAL), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company. SECTION 1004. EXISTENCE. --------- Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect the existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors in good faith shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders. - 68 -
SECTION 1005. MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTIES. ------------------------- The Company will cause all properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary of the Company to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, as determined by the Board of Directors in good faith, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders. SECTION 1006. PAYMENT OF TAXES AND OTHER CLAIMS. --------------------------------- The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings. SECTION 1007. LIMITATION ON LIENS. ------------------- The Company will not, and will not permit any Principal Subsidiary to, create or suffer to exist any Lien to secure any Indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary upon any Principal Property, or upon shares of capital stock or evidences of Indebtedness issued by any Principal Subsidiary and owned by the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, whether owned at the date of this Indenture or thereafter acquired, without making, or causing such Principal Subsidiary to make, effective provision to secure all of the Securities from time to time Outstanding by such Lien, equally and ratably with any and all other Indebtedness thereby secured, so long as such Indebtedness shall be so secured. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to Indebtedness secured by Liens existing on the date of this Indenture or to any of the following: (1) Liens on any property existing at the time of the acquisition thereof; (2) Liens on property of a corporation existing at the time such - 69 -
corporation is merged into, consolidated with or acquired by the Company or a Principal Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such corporation (or a division thereof) as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Principal Subsidiary, PROVIDED that such Lien as a result of such merger, consolidation, acquisition, sale, lease or other disposition is not extended to property owned by the Company or such Principal Subsidiary immediately prior thereto; (3) Liens on property of a corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Principal Subsidiary; (4) Liens securing Indebtedness of a Principal Subsidiary to the Company or to another Principal Subsidiary; (5) Liens to secure all or part of the cost of acquisition, construction, development or improvement of the underlying property, or to secure Indebtedness incurred to provide funds for any such purpose (including purchase money security interest or money mortgage on real or personal property), PROVIDED that the commitment of the creditor to extend the credit secured by any such Liens shall have been obtained not later than twenty-four months after the later of (a) the completion of the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such property or (b) the placing in operation of such property or of such property as so construed, developed or improved; (6) Liens on any property created, assumed or otherwise brought into existence in contemplation of the sale or other disposition of the underlying property, whether directly or indirectly, by way of share disposition or otherwise; PROVIDED that the Company must have disposed of such property within 180 days from the creation of such Liens and any Indebtedness secured by such Liens shall be without recourse to the Company or any Subsidiary; (7) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments; (8) Liens to secure Indebtedness on any Principal Property of joint ventures which constitute Principal Subsidiaries in which the Company or a Principal Subsidiary has an interest, to the extent such Liens are on property or assets of, or equity interests in, such joint ventures; and (9) any extension, renewal or replacement or refunding of any Lien existing on the date of the Indenture or referred to in clauses (1) to (3) or (5); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby and not otherwise authorized by clauses (1) to (3) or (5), shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness, plus any premium or fee payable in connection with any such extension, renewal, replacement, or refunding, so secured at the time such extension, renewal, replacement or refunding. - 70 -
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and its Principal Subsidiaries may create or suffer to exist Liens which would otherwise be prohibited by this Section 1007 securing Indebtedness in an aggregate amount which, together with all outstanding Attributable Value of all Sale and Lease-Back Transactions permitted by the last paragraph of Section 1008 and all Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted pursuant to this paragraph, does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company. SECTION 1008. LIMITATION ON SALE AND LEASE-BACK TRANSACTIONS. ---------------------------------------------- The Company will not, nor will it permit any Principal Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property (except for (x) a transaction providing for a lease for a term, including any renewal thereof, of not more than three years, by the end of which term it is intended that the use of such Principal Property by the lessee will be discontinued, (y) a transaction between the Company and a Principal Subsidiary or between Principal Subsidiaries, and (z) a transaction between the Company or a Principal Subsidiary and a joint venture in which the Company or a Principal Subsidiary has an interest), unless either (i) the Company or such Principal Subsidiary would be entitled pursuant to Section 1007 to issue, assume or guarantee Indebtedness secured by a Lien on such Principal Property without equally and ratably securing the Securities or (ii) the Company or such Principal Subsidiary shall apply or cause to be applied within 180 days after the effective date of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, an amount equal to the Net Available Proceeds therefrom to (A) the acquisition of one or more Principal Properties or (B) to the retirement of Securities or the repayment of other Indebtedness of the Company or a Principal Subsidiary (other than such Indebtedness owned by the Company or a Principal Subsidiary) which, in the case of such Indebtedness of the Company, is not subordinate and junior in right of payment to the prior payment of the Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Principal Subsidiary may enter into a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction which would otherwise be prohibited by this Section 1008 to the extent that the Attributable Value thereof, together with all indebtedness secured by Liens permitted pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 1007 and the Attributable Value of all other Sale and Lease-Back Transactions permitted by this paragraph, does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company. SECTION 1009. STATEMENT BY OFFICERS AS TO DEFAULT; COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES. ------------------------------------------------------------ (a) The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of their respective fiscal years, ending after the date hereof an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, has fulfilled all its obligations hereunder or is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of Section 801 or Sections 1004 to 1008, - 71 -
inclusive, and if the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, as the case may be, shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. (b) The Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor becomes aware or should reasonably become aware of the occurrence of an Event of Default or a Default, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or default, and the action which the Company or such Subsidiary Guarantor proposes to take with respect thereto. SECTION 1010. WAIVER OF CERTAIN COVENANTS. --------------------------- The Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor may be excused in any particular instance for complying with any covenant or condition set forth in Section 801, 802 and Sections 1004 to 1008, if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and such Subsidiary Guarantor and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 1011. AVAILABLE INFORMATION. --------------------- Until such time as all Outstanding Securities are freely transferable without restriction under the Securities Act, the Company (i) will use its best efforts to be subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and to file in a timely manner all reports and other documents required to be filed pursuant thereto or in connection therewith and (ii) will take, and will cause the Subsidiary Guarantors to take, all actions necessary to permit resales of the Securities and the Subsidiary Guarantees endorsed thereon pursuant to Rule 144A, including furnishing to any Holder (or of a beneficial interest in a Security), or to any prospective purchaser designated by such a Holder or beneficial owner, upon request of such Holder or beneficial owner, financial and other information required to be delivered under paragraph (d)(4) of Rule 144A. SECTION 1012. ACQUISITION OF SECURITIES. ------------------------- The Company shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates not to, resell or otherwise dispose of any Securities acquired by them, in the open market or otherwise, and shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, surrender all such Securities acquired to the Trustee for cancellation. - 72 -
ARTICLE ELEVEN Redemption of Securities SECTION 1101. APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE. ------------------------ Securities which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with this Article. SECTION 1102. ELECTION TO REDEEM; NOTICE TO TRUSTEE. ------------------------------------- The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee in its sole and absolute discretion), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed. SECTION 1103. SELECTION BY TRUSTEE OF SECURITIES TO BE REDEEMED. ------------------------------------------------- If less than all the Securities are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security; PROVIDED that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption as aforesaid and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption as aforesaid, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed. SECTION 1104. NOTICE OF REDEMPTION. -------------------- Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register. - 73 -
All notices of redemption shall state: (1) the Redemption Date; (2) the Redemption Price; (3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any such Securities, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed; (4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the Redemption Date, will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest and Liquidated Damages thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date; (5) the place or places where each such Security is to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price; (6) that in the case that a Security is only redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities in an aggregate amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security; (7) the aggregate principal amount of Securities being redeemed; (8) the CUSIP number of such Securities, if any, or any other numbers used by the Depositary to identify such securities; and (9) such other matters as the Company shall deem desirable or appropriate. Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company. Any such notice of redemption shall be irrevocable. On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit, with respect to the Securities of any series called for redemption pursuant to this Section 1104, with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent an amount of money in the applicable currency sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, any Liquidated Damages on and any accrued interest on, all such Securities or portion thereof which are to be redeemed on that date. - 74 -
SECTION 1105. Securities Payable on Redemption Date. Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities or portions thereof so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest and Liquidated Damages, if any) such Securities or portions thereof, shall cease to bear interest and Liquidated Damages. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security or portion thereof shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the Redemption Date; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307. If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security or, if no rate is prescribed therefor in the Security, at the rate of interest, if any, borne by such Security. SECTION 1106. SECURITIES REDEEMED IN PART. --------------------------- Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at the office or agency designated for that purpose in Section 1002 (with, if the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities (and with Subsidiary Guarantees executed by the Subsidiary Guarantors endorsed thereon), of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered with the Subsidiary Guarantees of the Subsidiary Guarantors endorsed thereon. ARTICLE TWELVE Subsidiary Guarantee SECTION 1201. SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEE. -------------------- Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby absolutely and unconditionally guarantees, jointly and severally with each other Subsidiary Guarantor, to each Holder of a Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee pursuant to this Indenture and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, regardless of the validity and enforceability of - 75 -
the Indenture, the Securities or the obligations of the Company under the Indenture, the Securities or the Registration Rights Agreement, that: (i) the principal of, and interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) on the Securities will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, and interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) on the overdue principal of, and interest on the Securities, to the extent lawful, and all other payment obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee thereunder or under this Indenture will be promptly paid in full, all in accordance with the terms thereof, of the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement; and (ii) in case of any extension of time for payment or renewal of any Securities, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that this Subsidiary Guarantee would constitute or result in a violation of any applicable fraudulent conveyance or similar law of any relevant jurisdiction, the liability of each Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture and its Subsidiary Guarantee shall be reduced to the maximum amount permissible under such fraudulent conveyance or similar law. If the Company shall default in the due and punctual payment of any obligation under this Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement including under the Securities, without the necessity of action by the Trustee or any Holder of Securities, the Subsidiary Guarantor will promptly and fully make such payments in the same manner as required to have been made by the Company. To the extent permitted by law, the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall be continuing, absolute and unconditional, and shall not be impaired, modified, released or limited by an occurrence or condition whatsoever, including, without limitation, (i) any compromise, settlement, release, waiver, renewal, extension, indulgence or modification of, or any change in, any of the obligations and liabilities of the Company contained in the Securities, this Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement or of any other Subsidiary Guarantor contained in the Indenture, (ii) any impairment, modification, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or of any other Subsidiary Guarantor in bankruptcy, or any remedy for the enforcement thereof, resulting from the operation of any present or future provision of any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws or from the decision of any court, (iii) the assertion or exercise by the Company, any other Subsidiary Guarantor, or the Trustee of any rights or remedies under the Securities, this Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement or their delay in or failure to assert or exercise any such rights or remedies, (iv) the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets, marshaling of assets and liabilities, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or readjustment of, or other similar - 76 -
proceeding affecting, the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor or any of their assets, or the disaffirmance of this Indenture, the Securities or the Registration Rights Agreement in any such proceeding, (v) the release or discharge of the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor from the performance or observance of any agreement, covenant, term of condition contained in any of such instruments by operation of law, (vi) the unenforceability of the Securities, this Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement or (vii) any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor. Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby (i) waives diligence, presentment, demand for payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of the merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company or to realize on any collateral, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever with respect to the payment obligations of the Company under this Indenture, (ii) agrees that its obligations hereunder constitute a guarantee of payment and not of collection and are not in any way conditional or contingent upon any attempt to collect from or enforce against the Company or upon any other condition or contingency, (iii) acknowledges that any agreement, instrument or document evidencing the obligations of the Company under this Indenture may be transferred and that the benefit of its obligations hereunder shall extend to each holder of any agreement, instrument or document evidencing such obligations without notice to them and (iv) covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the payment obligations under the Securities, this Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that if at any time all or any part of any payment therefore applied by any person to any payment obligation is, or must be, rescinded or returned for any reason whatsoever, including, without limitation, the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor, such obligation shall for the purposes of the Subsidiary Guarantee, to the extent that such payment is or must be rescinded or returned, be deemed to have continued in existence notwithstanding such application, and the Subsidiary Guarantee made pursuant to this Indenture shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, as to such payment obligation as though such application had not been made. Each Subsidiary Guarantor shall, to the extent of any payment made by it pursuant to this Indenture, be subrogated to all rights of the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities as to all payments and damages payable by the Company with respect to which payments have been made by such Subsidiary Guarantor, but, so long as any payment obligation remains outstanding, such right of subrogation on the part of such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be subject to the payment in full or discharge of all such payment obligations. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any other non-paying Subsidiary Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders or the Trustee under the Subsidiary Guarantees made pursuant to this Indenture. - 77 -
SECTION 1202. EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES. ----------------------------------------------- The Subsidiary Guarantees to be endorsed on the Securities shall include the terms of the Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in Section 1201 and any other terms that may be set forth in the form established pursuant to Section 206. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby agrees to execute its Subsidiary Guarantee, in a form established pursuant to Section 206, to be endorsed on each Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee. The Subsidiary Guarantee shall be executed on behalf of each respective Subsidiary Guarantor by any of such Subsidiary Guarantor's Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, one of its Vice Presidents, or its Secretary. The signature of any or all of these persons on the Subsidiary Guarantee may be manual or facsimile. A Subsidiary Guarantee bearing the manual or facsimile signature of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of a Subsidiary Guarantor shall bind such Subsidiary Guarantor, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of the Security on which such Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed or did not hold such offices at the date of such Subsidiary Guarantee. The delivery of any Security by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Subsidiary Guarantee endorsed thereon on behalf of the Subsidiary Guarantors and shall bind each Subsidiary Guarantor notwithstanding the fact that Subsidiary Guarantee does not bear the signature of such Subsidiary Guarantor. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby jointly and severally agrees that its Subsidiary Guarantee set forth in Section 1201 and in the form of Subsidiary Guarantee established pursuant to Section 206 shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse a Subsidiary Guarantee on any Security. SECTION 1203. RELEASE OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS. -------------------------------- Each Subsidiary Guarantee will remain in effect with respect to the respective Subsidiary Guarantor until the entire principal of and interest (and Liquidated Damages, if any) on the Securities shall have been paid in full or otherwise discharged in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement and all amounts owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if all of the issued and outstanding shares of Voting Stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor are sold, directly or indirectly, by the Company or another Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company to any Person (other than the Company or another Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company), then, upon delivery by the Company of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that all conditions precedent, if any, herein provided for relating to the release of such Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee and this Article Twelve have been complied with, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be released and discharged of its obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee and under this Article - 78 -
Twelve without any action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, and the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to acknowledge the release of such Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee endorsed on the Securities and under this Article Twelve. ARTICLE THIRTEEN Meetings of Holders of Securities SECTION 1301. PURPOSES FOR WHICH MEETINGS MAY BE CALLED. ----------------------------------------- A meeting of Holders of Securities may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities. SECTION 1302. CALL, NOTICE AND PLACE OF MEETINGS. ---------------------------------- (a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities for any purpose specified in Section 1301, to be held at such time and at such place in The City of New York, New York as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided in Section 105, not less than 21 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting. (b) In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities for any purpose specified in Section 1301, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication of the notice of such meeting within 21 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Company or the Holders of Securities in the amount specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in The City of New York, New York for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section. SECTION 1303. PERSONS ENTITLED TO VOTE AT MEETINGS. ------------------------------------ To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities, a Person shall be (a) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities, or (b) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities by such Holder or Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any - 79 -
representatives of the Company and its counsel. SECTION 1304. QUORUM; ACTION. -------------- The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities, be dissolved. In any other case, the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting (subject to repeated applications of this sentence). Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 1302(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of an adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities which shall constitute a quorum. At a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid, any resolution and all matters (except as limited by the proviso to Section 902) shall be effectively passed and decided if passed or decided by the Persons entitled to vote not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities. Any resolution passed or decisions taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities, whether or not present or represented at the meeting. SECTION 1305. DETERMINATION OF VOTING RIGHTS; CONDUCT AND ADJOURNMENT OF MEETINGS. ----------------------------------------------------------- (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities in regard to proof of the holding of Securities and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 104 or other proof. - 80 -
(b) The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman (which may be the Trustee) of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 1302(b), in which case the Company or the Holders of Securities calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities represented at the meeting. (c) At any meeting, each Holder of a Security or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities held or represented by him; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security or proxy. (d) Any meeting of Holders of Securities duly called pursuant to Section 1302 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities represented at the meeting, and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice. SECTION 1306. COUNTING VOTES AND RECORDING ACTION OF MEETINGS. ----------------------------------------------- The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more Persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was given as provided in Section 1302 and, if applicable, Section 1304. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. - 81 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. Attest: STAPLES, INC. /s/ Jack A. Vanwoerkom By /s/ John J. Mahoney ----------------------------- -------------------------------- Jack A. VanWoerkom John J. Mahoney Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Chief Administrative Officer STAPLES THE OFFICE SUPERSTORE, INC., as Subsidiary Guarantor By /s/ John J. Mahoney -------------------------------- John J. Mahoney Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer STAPLES THE OFFICE SUPERSTORE EAST, INC., as Subsidiary Guarantor By /s/ John J. Mahoney -------------------------------- John J. Mahoney Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer STAPLES CONTRACT & COMMERCIAL, INC., as Subsidiary Guarantor By /s/ John J. Mahoney -------------------------------- John J. Mahoney Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer - 82 -
HACKENSACK FUNDING, LLC By /s/ William Swanson ------------------------------- William Swanson Treasurer ROCHESTER CAPITAL, LLC By /s/ William Swanson ------------------------------- William Swanson President HSBC BANK USA, as Trustee By /s/ Frank J. Godino ------------------------------- Authorized Signature - 83 -
TOWN OF FRAMINGHAM ) ) ss.: COUNTY OF MIDDLESEX ) On the 27th day of September, 2002 before me personally came John J. Mahoney, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of Staples, Inc., Staples the Office Superstore, Inc., Staples the Office Superstore East, Inc. and Staples Contract & Commercial, Inc, the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument and that the foregoing instrument was executed by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporations. /s/ Elizabeth J. Rooney --------------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth Rooney Notary Public Commission Expires 10/20/06
TOWN OF FRAMINGHAM ) ) ss.: COUNTY OF MIDDLESEX ) On the 27th day of September, 2002 before me personally came William Swanson, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he is Treasurer of Hackensack Funding, LLC and President of Rochester Capital, LLC, the limited liability companies described in and which executed the foregoing instrument and that the foregoing instrument was executed by authority of the Board of Directors of Hackensack Funding, LLC and of the Sole Member of Rochester Capital, LLC. /s/ Elizabeth J. Rooney --------------------------------------- Name: Elizabeth Rooney Notary Public Commission Expires 10/20/06
CITY OF NEW YORK ) ) ss.: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On the 27th day of September, 2002 before me personally came Frank J. Godino, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that [he - she] is Vice President of HSBC Bank USA, one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument and that the foregoing instrument was executed by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation. /S/ Marcia Markowski ---------------------------------- Marcia Markowski No. 24-01MA4761665 Notary Public, State of New York Qualified in Kings County Commission Expires 11-30-02 CITY OF NEW YORK ) ) ss.: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On the _____ day of September, 2002 before me personally came __________________, to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that [he - she] is _______________________________ of _____________________, one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument and that the foregoing instrument was executed by authority of the Board of Directors of said corporation. ----------------------------------
ANNEX A -- Form of Restricted Securities Certificate RESTRICTED SECURITIES CERTIFICATE (For transfers pursuant to Section 305(b)(1) of the Indenture) HSBC Bank USA 452 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10018-2706 Attention: Issuer Services Re: o % Senior Notes due o OF STAPLES, INC. (THE "SECURITIES") Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of September o, 2002 (the "Indenture"), among Staples, Inc. (the "Company"), the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and HSBC Bank USA, as Trustee. Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined. This certificate relates to U.S. $_____________ principal amount of Securities, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Securities"): CUSIP No(s). CERTIFICATE No(s). _____________________ The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Securities, (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Securities and is duly authorized by them to do so or (iii) it is the Holder of a Global Security and has received a certification to the effect set forth below. Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner". If the Specified Securities are represented by a Global Security, they are held through the Depositary or an Agent Member in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner. If the Specified Securities are not represented by a Global Security, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner. The Owner has requested that the Specified Securities be transferred to a person (the "Transferee") who will take delivery in the form of a Restricted Security. In connection with such transfer, the Owner hereby certifies that, unless such transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, it is being effected in accordance with Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act and A-1
all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions. Accordingly, the Owner hereby further certifies as follows: (1) RULE 144A TRANSFERS. If the transfer is being effected in accordance with Rule 144A: (A) the Specified Securities are being transferred to a person that the Owner and any person acting on its behalf reasonably believe is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A, acquiring for its own account or for the account of a qualified institutional buyer; and (B) the Owner and any person acting on its behalf have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the Transferee is aware that the Owner may be relying on Rule 144A in connection with the transfer; and (2) RULE 144 TRANSFERS. If the transfer is being effected pursuant to Rule 144: the transfer is occurring after a holding period of at least one year (computed in accordance with paragraph (d) of Rule 144) has elapsed since the Specified Securities were last acquired from the Company or from an affiliate of the Company, whichever is later, and is being effected in accordance with the applicable amount, manner of sale and notice requirements of Rule 144. A-2
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company and the Purchasers. Dated: ____________________________________ (Print the name of the Undersigned, as such term is defined in the second paragraph of this certificate.) By: ________________________________ Name: Title: (If the Undersigned is a corporation, partnership or fiduciary, the title of the person signing on behalf of the Undersigned must be stated.) A-3
ANNEX B -- Form of Regulation S Certificate REGULATION S CERTIFICATE (For transfers pursuant to Section305(b)(1) of the Indenture) HSBC Bank USA 452 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10018-2706 Attention: Issuer Services Re: ! % Senior Notes due ! (THE "SECURITIES") Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of September o, 2002 (the "Indenture"), among Staples, Inc. (the "Company"), the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and HSBC Bank USA, as Trustee. Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Regulation S or Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined. This certificate relates to U.S. $_____________ principal amount of Securities, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Securities"): CUSIP No(s). CERTIFICATE No(s). _____________________ The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Securities, (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Securities and is duly authorized by them to do so or (iii) it is the Holder of a Global Security and has received a certification to the effect set forth below. Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner". If the Specified Securities are represented by a Global Security, they are held through the Depositary or an Agent Member in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner. If the Specified Securities are not represented by a Global Security, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner. The Owner has requested that the Specified Securities be transferred to a person (the "Transferee") who will take delivery in the form of a Regulation S Security. In connection with such transfer, the Owner hereby certifies or has certified that, unless such transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, it is being effected in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S or Rule 144 under the Securities Act and with all applicable securities laws of the states of the B-1
United States and other jurisdictions. Accordingly, the Owner hereby further certifies or has certified as follows: (1) RULE 904 TRANSFERS. If the transfer is being effected in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S: (A) the Owner is not a distributor of the Securities, an affiliate of the Company or any such distributor or a person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing; (B) the offer of the Specified Securities was not made to a person in the United States or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person; (C) either: (i) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or the Owner and any person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the Transferee was outside the United States, or (ii) the transaction is being executed in, on or through the facilities of the Eurobond market, as regulated by the International Securities Market Association or another designated offshore securities market and neither the Owner nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction has been prearranged with a buyer in the United States; (D) no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States by or on behalf of the Owner or any affiliate thereof; (E) if the Owner is a dealer in securities or has received a selling concession, fee or other remuneration in respect of the Specified Securities, and the transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period, then the requirements of Rule 904(c)(1) have been satisfied; and (F) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act. (2) RULE 144 TRANSFERS. If the transfer is being effected pursuant to Rule 144: the transfer is occurring after a holding period of at least one year (computed in accordance with paragraph (d) of Rule 144) has elapsed since the Specified Securities were last acquired from the Company or from an affiliate of the Company, whichever is later, and is being effected in accordance with the applicable amount, manner of sale and notice requirements of Rule 144. B-2 1
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company and the Purchasers. Dated: ____________________________________ (Print the name of the Undersigned, as such term is defined in the second paragraph of this certificate.) By: ________________________________ Name: Title: (If the Undersigned is a corporation, partnership or fiduciary, the title of the person signing on behalf of the Undersigned must be stated.) B-3

Exhibit 10.1 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 364-DAY TERM LOAN AGREEMENT dated as of October 4, 2002 STAPLES, INC. THE LENDERS NAMED HEREIN, FLEET NATIONAL BANK, AS AGENT, WITH FLEET SECURITIES, INC. HAVING ACTED AS ARRANGER - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE OF CONTENTS
-ii-
SECTION 4.4. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS; FISCAL YEAR..................................................26 SECTION 4.5. NO MATERIAL CHANGES, ETC...........................................................26 SECTION 4.6. FRANCHISES, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, ETC...............................................27 SECTION 4.7. LITIGATION.........................................................................27 SECTION 4.8. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER INSTRUMENTS, LAWS, ETC.......................................27 SECTION 4.9. TAX STATUS.........................................................................27 SECTION 4.10. NO EVENT OF DEFAULT................................................................27 SECTION 4.11. HOLDING COMPANY AND INVESTMENT COMPANY ACTS........................................28 SECTION 4.12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.............................................................28 SECTION 4.12.1. IN GENERAL........................................................28 SECTION 4.12.2. TERMINABILITY OF WELFARE PLANS....................................28 SECTION 4.12.3. GUARANTEED PENSION PLANS..........................................28 SECTION 4.12.4. MULTIEMPLOYER PLANS...............................................29 SECTION 4.13. REGULATIONS U AND X, ETC...........................................................29 SECTION 4.14. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE...........................................................29 SECTION 4.15. SUBSIDIARIES, ETC..................................................................30 SECTION 4.16. PURCHASE AGREEMENT.................................................................30 SECTION 4.17. PERMITTED DEBT.....................................................................30 SECTION 5. AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER....................................................30 SECTION 5.1. PUNCTUAL PAYMENT...................................................................30 SECTION 5.2. MAINTENANCE OF OFFICE..............................................................30 SECTION 5.3. RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS...............................................................31 SECTION 5.4. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CERTIFICATES AND INFORMATION.................................31 SECTION 5.5. NOTICES............................................................................32 SECTION 5.6. LEGAL EXISTENCE; MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTIES.........................................32 SECTION 5.7. INSURANCE..........................................................................33 SECTION 5.8. TAXES..............................................................................33 SECTION 5.9. INSPECTION OF PROPERTIES AND BOOKS, ETC............................................33 SECTION 5.10. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, CONTRACTS, LICENSES, AND PERMITS.............................34 SECTION 5.11. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.............................................................34 SECTION 5.12. USE OF PROCEEDS....................................................................34 SECTION 5.13. LICENSES AND PERMITS...............................................................34 SECTION 5.14. CLOSING OF ACQUISITION.............................................................34 SECTION 5.15. PRO FORMA COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE...................................................35 SECTION 5.16. FURTHER ASSURANCES.................................................................35 SECTION 6. CERTAIN NEGATIVE COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER...............................................35 SECTION 6.1. RESTRICTIONS ON INDEBTEDNESS.......................................................35 SECTION 6.2. RESTRICTIONS ON LIENS..............................................................37 SECTION 6.3. RESTRICTIONS ON INVESTMENTS........................................................39 SECTION 6.4. DISTRIBUTIONS......................................................................40 SECTION 6.5. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.............................................................40 SECTION 6.6. MERGER AND CONSOLIDATION; ACQUISITIONS.............................................41 SECTION 6.7. DISPOSITION OF ASSETS AND SALE-LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS..............................41 SECTION 6.8. SUBORDINATED DEBT..................................................................41
-iii-
SECTION 7. FINANCIAL COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER......................................................42 SECTION 7.1. FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO........................................................42 SECTION 7.2. ADJUSTED FUNDED DEBT TO TOTAL CAPITALIZATION RATIO.................................42 SECTION 8. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT.....................................................................42 SECTION 8.1. CLOSING CONDITIONS.................................................................42 SECTION 8.1.1. LOAN DOCUMENTS.....................................................42 SECTION 8.1.2. CERTIFIED COPIES OF CHARTER DOCUMENTS..............................42 SECTION 8.1.3. CORPORATE ACTION...................................................43 SECTION 8.1.4. INCUMBENCY CERTIFICATE.............................................43 SECTION 8.1.5. OPINION OF COUNSEL.................................................43 SECTION 8.1.6. PAYMENT OF FEES....................................................43 SECTION 8.1.7. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.............................................43 SECTION 8.1.8. UCC SEARCH RESULTS.................................................43 SECTION 8.1.9. CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE...........................................43 SECTION 8.1.10. NO MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE........................................43 SECTION 8.1.11. REPRESENTATIONS TRUE; NO EVENT OF DEFAULT.........................44 SECTION 8.1.12. NO LEGAL IMPEDIMENT...............................................44 SECTION 8.1.13. GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION...........................................44 SECTION 8.1.14. PROCEEDINGS AND DOCUMENTS.........................................44 SECTION 8.2. CONDITIONS TO FUNDING...............................................................44 SECTION 8.2.1. REPRESENTATIONS TRUE; NO EVENT OF DEFAULT..........................44 SECTION 8.2.2. NO LEGAL IMPEDIMENT................................................45 SECTION 8.2.3. EUROPEAN COMMISSION APPROVAL.......................................45 SECTION 8.2.4. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.............................................45 SECTION 8.2.5. DEADLINE FOR INITIAL DRAWDOWN......................................45 SECTION 9. EVENTS OF DEFAULT; ACCELERATION; ETC.....................................................45 SECTION 9.1. EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND ACCELERATION.................................................45 SECTION 9.2. REMEDIES...........................................................................49 SECTION 10. SETOFF..................................................................................49 SECTION 11. THE AGENT...............................................................................50 SECTION 11.1. AUTHORIZATION......................................................................50 SECTION 11.2. EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS...............................................................50 SECTION 11.3. NO LIABILITY.......................................................................51 SECTION 11.4. NO REPRESENTATIONS.................................................................51 SECTION 11.4.1. GENERAL...........................................................51 SECTION 11.4.2. CLOSING DOCUMENTATION, ETC........................................51 SECTION 11.5. PAYMENTS...........................................................................52 SECTION 11.5.1. PAYMENTS TO AGENT.................................................52 SECTION 11.5.2. DISTRIBUTION BY AGENT.............................................52 SECTION 11.5.3. DELINQUENT LENDERS................................................52 SECTION 11.6. HOLDERS OF TERM NOTES..............................................................52 SECTION 11.7. INDEMNITY..........................................................................52 SECTION 11.8. AGENT AS LENDER; ETC...............................................................53
-iv-
SECTION 11.9. RESIGNATION........................................................................53 SECTION 11.10. NOTIFICATION OF DEFAULTS AND EVENTS OF DEFAULT.....................................53 SECTION 12. EXPENSES................................................................................53 SECTION 13. INDEMNIFICATION.........................................................................54 SECTION 14. SURVIVAL OF COVENANTS, ETC..............................................................55 SECTION 15. ASSIGNMENT AND PARTICIPATION............................................................55 SECTION 15.1. CONDITIONS TO ASSIGNMENT BY LENDERS................................................55 SECTION 15.2. CERTAIN REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; LIMITATIONS; COVENANTS.....................56 SECTION 15.3. REGISTER...........................................................................56 SECTION 15.4. NEW TERM NOTES.....................................................................57 SECTION 15.5. PARTICIPATIONS.....................................................................57 SECTION 15.6. ASSIGNEE OR PARTICIPANT AFFILIATED WITH THE BORROWER...............................57 SECTION 15.7. MISCELLANEOUS ASSIGNMENT PROVISIONS................................................58 SECTION 15.8. ASSIGNMENT BY BORROWER.............................................................58 SECTION 16. NOTICES, ETC............................................................................58 SECTION 17. GOVERNING LAW...........................................................................59 SECTION 18. HEADINGS................................................................................59 SECTION 19. COUNTERPARTS............................................................................60 SECTION 20. ENTIRE AGREEMENT, ETC...................................................................60 SECTION 21. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL....................................................................60 SECTION 22. CONSENTS, AMENDMENTS, WAIVERS, ETC......................................................60 SECTION 23. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION...........................................61 SECTION 23.1. CONFIDENTIALITY....................................................................61 SECTION 23.2. PRIOR NOTIFICATION.................................................................62 SECTION 23.3. OTHER..............................................................................62 SECTION 24. SEVERABILITY............................................................................62
-v- EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES Exhibit A Form of Conversion Request Exhibit B Form of Term Note Exhibit C Form of Guaranty Exhibit D Form of Compliance Certificate Exhibit E Form of Assignment and Acceptance Schedule 1 Lenders Schedule 2 Guarantors Schedule 4.3 Title to Properties, Leases Schedule 4.7 Litigation Schedule 4.9 Taxes Schedule 4.12 Pension Liabilities Schedule 4.14 Environmental Compliance Schedule 4.15(a) Subsidiaries Schedule 4.15(b) Joint Ventures and Partnerships Schedule 4.15(c) Equity Interests of 50% or Less Schedule 6.1 Existing Indebtedness Schedule 6.2 Existing Liens Schedule 6.3 Existing Investments
364-DAY TERM LOAN AGREEMENT This 364-DAY TERM LOAN AGREEMENT, dated as of October 4, 2002, is by and among (a) STAPLES, INC. (the "BORROWER"), a Delaware corporation having its principal place of business at 500 Staples Drive, Framingham, MA 01701, (b) FLEET NATIONAL BANK and the other lending institutions listed on SCHEDULE 1 attached hereto (the "LENDERS") and (c) FLEET NATIONAL BANK, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "AGENT") for the Lenders. SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF INTERPRETATION. SECTION 1.1. DEFINITIONS. The following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 1 or elsewhere in the provisions of this Credit Agreement referred to below: ACQUIRED BUSINESS. The Guilbert mail order office products business to be acquired by the Borrower in accordance with the terms of Purchase Agreement. ADJUSTMENT DATE. The date which is three (3) Business Days after a Compliance Certificate is delivered by the Borrower pursuant to Section 5.4(c) hereof. AFFILIATE. Any Person that would be considered to be an affiliate of a Person under Rule 144(a) of the Rules and Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as in effect on the Closing Date, if such Person were issuing securities. AGENT. As defined in the preamble hereto. AGENT FEES. See Section 3.1 hereof. AGENT'S HEAD OFFICE. The Agent's office located at 100 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110, or at such other location as the Agent may designate from time to time. AGENT'S SPECIAL COUNSEL. Bingham McCutchen LLP or such other counsel as may be approved by the Agent. APPLICABLE MARGIN. The Applicable Margin shall be in effect for each period commencing on an Adjustment Date through the date immediately preceding the next Adjustment Date (each a "RATE ADJUSTMENT PERIOD") based on a determination of the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio and the Senior Debt Rating. The Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio shall be determined as at the end of the fiscal period for which financial statements and a Compliance Certificate have most recently been delivered to the Agent pursuant to section 6.4 and the Senior Debt Rating shall be determined as of the last day of the preceding Rate Adjustment Period. The Applicable Margin shall be the applicable rate PER ANNUM, corresponding to the lower of the Levels set forth in the table below (with Level I being the lowest level and Level VI being the highest level) corresponding to the Fixed Charge
-2- Coverage Ratio or the Senior Debt Rating, PROVIDED THAT if the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio and Senior Debt Rating are more than one Level apart, the Applicable Margin shall be one Level below the higher of the two applicable Levels. In the event that the Senior Debt Ratings assigned by Moody's and S&P are not equivalent, the following criteria shall determine which Level shall be applicable to the Senior Debt Rating: (a) if the Senior Debt Ratings are one Level apart, the Level applicable to the Senior Debt Rating shall be the lower of the two Levels and (b) if the Senior Debt Ratings are more than one Level apart, the Level applicable to the Senior Debt Rating shall be one Level below the higher of the two Levels. For purposes of clarity, the parties hereto acknowledge that the Applicable Margin with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be the rate per annum set forth in column D in the table below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) for the period commencing on the Closing Date through the date immediately preceding the first Adjustment Date, the Applicable Margin shall be that corresponding to Level III in the table above, and (B) if the Borrower fails to deliver any Compliance Certificate pursuant to section 5.4(c) hereof then, for the period commencing on the date such Compliance Certificate was due through the date immediately preceding the Adjustment Date that occurs immediately following the date on which such Compliance Certificate is delivered, the Applicable Margin shall be the Applicable Margin corresponding to Level VI above, and (C) on and after the date nine (9) months after the Closing Date, each Applicable Margin set forth above shall be increased by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%).
-3- APPLICABLE PENSION LEGISLATION. At any time, any pension or retirement benefits legislation (be it national, federal, provincial, territorial or otherwise) then applicable to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. APPROVED FUND. Any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender. APPROVED LENDING GROUP. Any of (i) the lenders under the Revolving Credit Agreement, (ii) any other Lender approved in accordance with section 15 hereof, (iii) an Affiliate of any such lenders or (iv) an Approved Fund of any such lenders. ARRANGER. Fleet Securities, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation. ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE. See section 15.1 hereof. BALANCE SHEET DATE. February 2, 2002. BASE RATE. The higher of (a) the annual rate of interest announced from time to time by Fleet at its office in Boston, Massachusetts, as its "prime rate" and (b) one-half of one percent (1/2%) per annum above the Federal Funds Effective Rate. For the purposes of this definition, "FEDERAL FUNDS EFFECTIVE RATE" shall mean for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three funds brokers of recognized standing selected by the Agent. Changes in the Base Rate resulting from any changes in Fleet's "prime rate" shall take place immediately without notice or demand of any kind. BASE RATE LOAN. The Term Loan when bearing interest calculated by reference to the Base Rate. BORROWER. As defined in the preamble hereto. BUSINESS DAY. Any day on which banking institutions in Boston, Massachusetts and New York, New York, are open for the transaction of banking business and, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, also a day which is a Eurodollar Business Day.
-4- CAPITAL STOCK. With respect to any corporation, partnership, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company, or other legal or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalent (however designated) of capital stock of such entity, any and all limited or general partnership interests and equivalent ownership interests in such entity, any and all warrants and options to purchase any of the foregoing, and any securities convertible into any of the foregoing. CAPITALIZED LEASES. Leases under which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is the lessee or obligor, the discounted future rental payment obligations under which are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee or obligor in accordance with GAAP. CAPITAL MARKETS OFFERING. Any public or private debt offering, including any offering of convertible securities, by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. CERCLA. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. CLOSING DATE. The first date on which the conditions set forth in section 8.1 hereof have been satisfied, which shall be no later than October 31, 2002. CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. See section 5.4(c) hereof. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. All information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is labeled by the Borrower or such Subsidiary as confidential at the time such information is supplied by the Borrower or such Subsidiary to a Lender, other than information which (a) is public knowledge or generally available to the public, or (b) is obtained by any of the Lenders, whether prior to or after disclosure to such Lender by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, from a source other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, provided that such information is not known by such Lender to have been disclosed by any party in violation of a confidentiality agreement with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, any other obligation of nondisclosure with respect to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any applicable statutory or regulatory limitation imposed on the disclosure of such information. CONSOLIDATED OR CONSOLIDATED. With reference to any term defined herein, shall mean that term as applied to the accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, consolidated in accordance with GAAP. CONSOLIDATED ADJUSTED FUNDED DEBT. With respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as at any date of determination, on a consolidated basis, the aggregate of (a) Consolidated Total Funded Debt as of such date PLUS (b) (i) Rental Expense for the period of twelve consecutive months then ended MULTIPLIED BY (ii) eight (8).
-5- CONSOLIDATED EBIT. Consolidated net income (or deficit) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, after deducting all expenses and other proper charges other than interest expense, taxes and any noncash nonrecurring charges, and excluding (a) all extraordinary and nonrecurring items of income but not losses (except to the extent such extraordinary losses are offset by such extraordinary income) and (b) all income or loss from any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture or other entity in which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries holds not more than a fifty percent (50%) ownership interest, as determined in accordance with GAAP; PROVIDED that (i) there shall be excluded in calculating consolidated net income (or deficit) for purposes of this definition any noncash losses attributable to the use of a fair value methodology for recognition and measurement of impairment of goodwill not identified with impaired assets in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 142 and (ii) for purposes of calculating the Obligor Group Requirement, the Persons included in the calculation of Consolidated EBIT shall be as set forth in the definition of Obligor Group Requirement. CONSOLIDATED TOTAL ASSETS. All assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. CONSOLIDATED TOTAL FUNDED DEBT. With respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as at any date of determination, on a consolidated basis, the aggregate (without duplication) of (a) all outstanding Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries relating to or in respect of (i) the borrowing of money or the obtaining of credit, including the issuance of notes or bonds and standby letters of credit outstanding but excluding documentary letters of credit, (ii) the deferred purchase price of assets (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iii) any Synthetic Leases or any Capitalized Leases, and (iv) the Securitization, PLUS (b) all Indebtedness of the type referred to in clause (a) of another Person guaranteed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. CONSOLIDATED TOTAL INTEREST EXPENSE. For any period, the aggregate amount of interest required to be paid or accrued by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during such period on all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries outstanding during all or any part of such period, whether such interest was or is required to be reflected as an item of expense or capitalized, including payments consisting of interest in respect of Capitalized Leases and Synthetic Leases, and including facility fees, commitment fees, usage fees, agency fees, balance deficiency fees, and similar fees or expenses in connection with the borrowing of money, as determined in accordance with GAAP. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES. Any guaranties, endorsements, obligations to reimburse the issuer in respect of any letters of credit, agreements to purchase or provide funds for the payment of obligations of others, or other liabilities which would be classified as contingent in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, excluding, however, (a) product warranties given in the ordinary course of business, (b) endorsements of checks or other negotiable instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of
-6- business, and (c) reimbursement obligations in respect of documentary trade letters of credit. CONVERSION REQUEST. A notice given by the Borrower to the Agent in substantially the form of EXHIBIT A hereto of the Borrower's election to convert or continue an interest rate option in accordance with section 2.5 hereof. CREDIT AGREEMENT. This 364-Day Term Loan Agreement, including the Schedules and Exhibits hereto. DEFAULT. See section 9.1 hereof. DELINQUENT LENDER. See section 11.5.3 hereof. DISTRIBUTION. The declaration or payment of any dividend on or in respect of any shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower, other than dividends payable solely in shares of common stock of the Borrower; the purchase, redemption, or other retirement of any shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower, directly or indirectly through a Subsidiary of the Borrower or otherwise; the return of capital by the Borrower to its shareholders as such; or any other distribution on or in respect of any shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower. DOLLARS or $. Dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America. DOMESTIC LENDING OFFICE. Initially, the office of each Lender designated as such in SCHEDULE 1 attached hereto; thereafter, such other office of such Lender, if any, located within the United States that will be making or maintaining a Base Rate Loan. DOMESTIC SUBSIDIARY. Any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of the United States of America, any state or territory thereof or the District of Columbia. DRAWDOWN DATE. The date on which the Term Loan is made in accordance with the terms hereof (the "Initial Drawdown Date"), and any date on which the interest rate option with respect to the Term Loan is converted or continued in accordance with section 2.5 hereof. EC APPROVALS. See section 8.2.3 hereof. ELIGIBLE ASSIGNEE. Any of (a) a commercial bank or finance company organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof or the District of Columbia, and having total assets in excess of $1,000,000,000; (b) a savings and loan association or savings bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof or the District of Columbia, and having a net worth of at least $100,000,000, calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (c) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country which is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD"), or a political subdivision of
-7- any such country, and having total assets in excess of $1,000,000,000, or the central bank of any country which is a member of the OECD, PROVIDED, in each case, that such bank (i) is acting through a branch or agency located in the country in which it is organized or another country which is also a member of the OECD and (ii) has delivered to the Agent, on the date on which the Assignment and Acceptance to which such Eligible Assignee is a party becomes effective, the forms referred to in section 3.3.3 hereof; (d) a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender; (e) Approved Fund and (f) other Person (other than a natural person), in each case, approved in accordance with section 15.1 hereof. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN. Any employee benefit plan within the meaning of section 3(3) of ERISA maintained or contributed to by the Borrower, other than a Guaranteed Pension Plan or a Multiemployer Plan. ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS. Any judgment, decree, order, law, license, rule or regulation pertaining to environmental matters, including without limitation, those arising under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), CERCLA, the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 ("SARA"), the Federal Clean Water Act, the Federal Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or any state or local statute, regulation, ordinance, order or decree relating to health, safety or the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL NOTICE. Any notice to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries from any third party including, without limitation: any federal, state or local governmental authority, (a) that it has been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA with respect to a site listed on the National Priorities List, 40 C.F.R. Part 300 Appendix B; (b) that any Hazardous Substances which it has generated, transported or disposed of has been found at any site at which a federal, state or local agency or other third party has conducted or has ordered that the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries conduct a remedial investigation, removal or other response action pursuant to any Environmental Law; or (c) that it is or shall be a named party to any claim, action, cause of action, complaint, or legal or administrative proceeding in connection with the release of Hazardous Substances. EQUITY ISSUANCE. The sale or issuance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any of its Capital Stock excluding (i) such issuances as part of mergers or other acquisitions and (ii) any such sales or issuances between the Borrower and its Affiliates or to any employee of the Borrower or its Affiliates. ERISA. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. ERISA AFFILIATE. Any Person which is treated as a single employer with the Borrower under section 414 of the Code.
-8- ERISA REPORTABLE EVENT. A reportable event with respect to a Guaranteed Pension Plan within the meaning of section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations promulgated thereunder as to which the requirement of notice has not been waived. EUROCURRENCY RESERVE RATE. For any day with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the maximum rate (expressed as a decimal) at which any bank subject thereto would be required to maintain reserves under Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor or similar regulations relating to such reserve requirements) against "EUROCURRENCY LIABILITIES" (as that term is used in Regulation D), if such liabilities were outstanding. The Eurocurrency Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the Eurocurrency Reserve Rate. EURODOLLAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day on which commercial banks are open for international business (including dealings in Dollar deposits) in London or such other interbank market as may be selected by the Agent in its sole discretion acting in good faith. EURODOLLAR LENDING OFFICE. Initially, the office of each Lender designated as such in SCHEDULE 1 attached hereto; thereafter, such other office of such Lender, if any, that shall be making or maintaining a Eurodollar Rate Loan. EURODOLLAR RATE. For any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate of interest equal to (a) the rate (rounded upwards to the nearest 1/16 of one percent) per annum at which the Reference Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office is offered Dollar deposits two (2) Eurodollar Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the interbank eurodollar market where the eurodollar and foreign currency and exchange operations of such Eurodollar Lending Office are customarily conducted, for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein and in an amount comparable to the amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan to which such Interest Period applies, divided by (b) a number equal to 1.00 MINUS the Eurocurrency Reserve Rate. EURODOLLAR RATE LOAN. The Term Loan or the Term Loan Amount, as applicable, when bearing interest calculated by reference to the Eurodollar Rate. EVENT OF DEFAULT. See section 9.1 hereof. FACILITY FEE. See section 3.2 hereof. FEE LETTER. See section 3.1 hereof. FINANCIAL AFFILIATE. A Subsidiary of the bank holding company controlling any Lender, which Subsidiary is engaging in any of the activities permitted by section 4(e) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. section 1843).
-9- FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO. See section 7.1 hereof. FLEET. Fleet National Bank, a national banking association, in its individual capacity. FUND. Any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business. GAAP OR GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES. (a) When used in sections 6 and 7 hereof and in the calculation of the Obligor Group Requirement, whether directly or indirectly through reference to a capitalized term used therein, means (i) principles that are consistent with the principles promulgated or adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its predecessors, in effect for the fiscal year ended on the Balance Sheet Date, and (ii) to the extent consistent with such principles, the accounting practice of the Borrower reflected in its financial statements for the year ended on the Balance Sheet Date, and (b) when used in general, other than as provided above, means principles that are (i) consistent with the principles promulgated or adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and its predecessors, as in effect from time to time, and (ii) consistently applied with past financial statements of the Borrower adopting the same principles, provided that in each case referred to in this definition of GAAP a certified public accountant would, insofar as the use of such accounting principles is pertinent, be in a position to deliver an unqualified opinion (other than a qualification regarding changes in GAAP) as to financial statements in which such principles have been properly applied. GUARANTEED PENSION PLAN. Any employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of section 3(2) of ERISA maintained or contributed to by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate the benefits of which are guaranteed on termination in full or in part by the PBGC pursuant to Title IV of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan. GUARANTIES. The Guaranty by each Guarantor in favor of the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and the Agent, dated as of the date hereof, and each additional guaranty executed by a Subsidiary acquired or formed after the date hereof. GUARANTORS. Those Subsidiaries of the Borrower listed on SCHEDULE 2 attached hereto, as such schedule may be modified from time to time in accordance with section 3.13 hereof. GUILBERT ACQUISITION. The purchase by the Borrower of certain assets substantially on the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement. GUILBERT ACQUISITION CLOSING DATE: The date on which the conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement have been satisfied or waived and the Guilbert Acquisition has occurred.
-10- HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any hazardous waste, as defined by 42 U.S.C. section 6903(5), any hazardous substances as defined by 42 U.S.C. section 9601(14), any pollutant or contaminant as defined by 42 U.S.C. section 9601(33) and any toxic substances, oil or hazardous materials or other chemicals or substances regulated by any Environmental Laws. INDEBTEDNESS. All obligations, contingent and otherwise, that in accordance with GAAP should be classified upon the obligor's balance sheet as liabilities, or to which reference should be made by footnotes thereto, including in any event and whether or not so classified: (a) all debt and similar monetary obligations, whether direct or indirect; (b) all liabilities secured by any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien, charge or other encumbrance existing on property owned or acquired subject thereto, whether or not the liability secured thereby shall have been assumed; (c) all obligations in respect of interest rate protection arrangements and exchange rate protection arrangements; (d) all guarantees, endorsements and other contingent obligations whether direct or indirect in respect of indebtedness of others, including any obligation to supply funds to or in any manner to invest in, directly or indirectly, the debtor, to purchase indebtedness, or to assure the owner of indebtedness against loss, through an agreement to purchase goods, supplies, or services for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of the indebtedness held by such owner or otherwise, and the obligations to reimburse the issuer in respect of any letters of credit; and (e) every obligation of such Person under any Synthetic Lease. INITIAL DRAWDOWN DATE. See definition of Drawdown Date. INTEREST PAYMENT DATE. (a) As to any Base Rate Loan, the last day of the calendar quarter which includes the Drawdown Date thereof and (b) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan in respect of which the Interest Period is (i) 3 months or less, the last day of such Interest Period and (ii) more than 3 months, the date that is 3 months from the first day of such Interest Period, the last day of each 3 month period thereafter, and, in addition, the last day of such Interest Period. INTEREST PERIOD. (a)(i) for any Base Rate Loan, the last day of the calendar quarter; and (ii) for any Eurodollar Rate Loan, 1, 2, 3 or 6 months, and (b) thereafter, each period commencing on the last day of the next preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of one of the periods set forth above, as selected by the Borrower in a Conversion Request; PROVIDED that all of the foregoing provisions relating to Interest Periods are subject to the following: (A) if any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan would otherwise end on a day that is not a Eurodollar Business Day, that Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Eurodollar Business Day unless the result of such extension would be to carry such Interest Period into another calendar month, in which event such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Eurodollar Business Day;
-11- (B) if any Interest Period with respect to a Base Rate Loan would end on a day that is not a Business Day, that Interest Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day; (C) if the Borrower shall fail to give notice as provided in section 2.5 hereof, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a conversion of the affected Eurodollar Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan and the continuance of a Base Rate Loan as a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto; (D) any Interest Period relating to any Eurodollar Rate Loan that begins on the last Eurodollar Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Eurodollar Business Day of a calendar month; and (E) any Interest Period that would otherwise extend beyond the Maturity Date shall end on the Maturity Date. INVESTMENTS. All expenditures made and all liabilities incurred (contingently or otherwise) for the acquisition of stock or Indebtedness of, or for loans, advances, capital contributions or transfers of property to, or in respect of any guaranties (or other commitments as described under Indebtedness), or obligations of, any Person. In determining the aggregate amount of Investments outstanding at any particular time: (a) the amount of any Investment represented by a guaranty shall be taken at not less than the principal amount of the obligations guaranteed and still outstanding; (b) there shall be included as an Investment all interest accrued with respect to Indebtedness constituting an Investment unless and until such interest is paid; (c) there shall be deducted in respect of each such Investment any amount received as a return of capital (but only by repurchase, redemption, retirement, repayment, liquidating dividend or liquidating distribution); (d) there shall not be deducted in respect of any Investment any amounts received as earnings on such Investment, whether as dividends, interest or otherwise, except that accrued interest included as provided in the foregoing clause (b) may be deducted when paid; and (e) there shall not be deducted from the aggregate amount of Investments any decrease in the value thereof. JOINDER AGREEMENTS. Joinder agreements in a form of acceptable to the Agent pursuant to which Subsidiaries of the Borrower become parties to and agree to be bound by the provisions of the Guaranty as a Guarantor. LENDER AFFILIATE. With respect to any Lender, (a) an Affiliate of such Lender or (b) any Approved Fund. LENDERS. As defined in the preamble hereto, which term shall include any other Person who becomes an assignee of any rights and obligations of a Lender pursuant to
-12- section 16 hereof. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Agent in its capacity as lender of the Term Loan. LOAN DOCUMENTS. This Credit Agreement, the Term Notes, the Guaranties, the Fee Letter and any other documents delivered pursuant to this Credit Agreement. MARGIN REGULATIONS. See section 4.13 hereof. MATURITY DATE. The date 364 days after the Closing Date or such earlier date as the Term Loan is paid or payable in full, or in the event that the Borrower does not consummate the Guilbert Acquisition on or before December 31, 2002, then December 31, 2002. MEASUREMENT PERIOD. See section 7.1 hereof. MOODY'S. Moody's Investors Service, Inc. MULTIEMPLOYER PLAN. Any multiemployer plan within the meaning of section 3(37) of ERISA maintained or contributed to by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate. NET CASH CAPITAL MARKETS OFFERING PROCEEDS. With respect to any Capital Markets Offering, the excess of the gross cash proceeds received by such Person for Capital Markets Offering after deduction of all reasonable and customary transaction expenses (including, without limitation, underwriting discounts and commissions) actually incurred in connection with such an offering. NET CASH EQUITY ISSUANCE PROCEEDS. With respect to any Equity Issuance, the excess of the gross cash proceeds received by such Person for such Equity Issuance after deduction of all reasonable and customary transaction expenses (including, without limitation, underwriting discounts and commissions) actually incurred in connection with such a sale or other issuance. OBLIGATIONS. All indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries arising or incurred under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or in respect of the Term Loan or other instruments at any time evidencing any thereof, whether existing on the date of this Credit Agreement or arising thereafter, direct or indirect, joint or several, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, secured or unsecured, arising by contract, operation of law or otherwise. OBLIGOR GROUP. Collectively, the Borrower and the Guarantors (including any Subsidiary of the Borrower which as of any date of determination has become a Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of this Credit Agreement).
-13- OBLIGOR GROUP REQUIREMENT. The requirement that, as of any date of determination, Consolidated EBIT of the Obligor Group for the Measurement Period most recently ended shall not be less than $275,000,000. PBGC. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation created by section 4002 of ERISA and any successor entity or entities having similar responsibilities. PERMITTED LIENS. Liens, security interests and other encumbrances permitted under section 6.2 hereof. PERSON. Any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, limited liability partnership, trust, unincorporated association, business, or other legal entity, and any government or any governmental agency or political subdivision thereof. PURCHASE AGREEMENT: The Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 21, 2002, by and among Guilbert, Reliable UK, VPC Systems and the Borrower. RATE ADJUSTMENT PERIOD. See definition of Applicable Margin. REAL ESTATE. All real property at any time owned or leased (as lessee or sublessee) by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. RECORD. The grid attached to a Term Note, or the continuation of such grid, or any other similar record, including computer records, maintained by any Lender with respect to any Loan referred to in such Term Note. REFERENCE LENDER. Fleet. RENTAL EXPENSE. All obligations of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under any rental agreements or leases of real property relating to retail stores, other than obligations in respect of Capitalized Leases and Synthetic Leases. REPLACEMENT LENDER. See section 3.12 hereof. REQUIRED LENDERS. As of any date, the Lenders holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan on such date. REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT. That certain Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2002, among (a) the Borrower, (b) the lenders named therein, (c) Fleet, as administrative agent, (d) Citicorp USA, Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as co-syndication agents, and (e) HSBC Bank USA and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as co-documentation agents. S&P. Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
-14- SECURITIZATION. The securitization by the Borrower and certain of its Subsidiaries of up to $300,000,000 of third-party accounts receivable on the terms and conditions set forth in the (a) Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2000, among the Borrower, Lincolnshire Funding, LLC, Corporate Receivables Corporation, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto as Purchasers, and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Agent, and (b) Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2000, among the Borrower, Quill Corporation, Staples Contract & Commercial, Inc. and Hackensack Funding, LLC, each as delivered to the Agent prior to the Closing Date and as in effect on the Closing Date, and in each case as amended with the consent of the Lenders, and any replacement or successor accounts receivable financing facility which contains terms and conditions which are substantially similar to the securitization described in clauses (a) and (b). SENIOR DEBT RATING. The rating issued by S&P or Moody's with respect to unsecured Indebtedness of the Borrower not maturing within twelve months, issued without third-party credit enhancement, and not subordinated by its term in right of payment to other Indebtedness of the Borrower. In the event that no such ratings are available on such unsecured Indebtedness of the Borrower, the Senior Debt Rating shall be the rating implied, in the reasonable discretion of the Agent, to such unsecured Indebtedness by reference to such other Indebtedness of the Borrower as shall be so rated. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY. As at any date of determination, the sum of (a) the capital accounts including common stock and preferred stock, but excluding treasury stock of the Borrower PLUS (b) the earned surplus and capital surplus of the Borrower (excluding adjustments to translate foreign assets and liabilities for changes in foreign exchange rates made in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 52), as determined in accordance with GAAP. SUBORDINATED DEBT. Unsecured Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is expressly subordinated and made junior to the payment and performance of the Obligations, and evidenced as such by a written instrument containing subordination provisions in form and substance approved by the Required Lenders in writing. SUBSIDIARY. Any corporation, association, trust, or other business entity of which the designated parent shall at any time own directly or indirectly through a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries at least a majority (by number of votes) of the outstanding Voting Stock and the accounts of which are consolidated with the Borrower in accordance with GAAP. SUBSTITUTED LENDER. See section 3.12 hereof. SYNTHETIC LEASE. Any lease of goods or other property, whether real or personal, which is treated as an operating lease under GAAP and as a loan or financing for U.S. income tax purposes.
-15- TERM LOAN. The term loan made or to be made by the Lenders to the Borrower on the Closing Date in the principal amount of $325,000,000 pursuant to section 2.1. TERM LOAN AMOUNT. With respect to each Lender, such Lender's Term Loan Percentage MULTIPLIED BY the amount of the Term Loan, as the same may be reduced from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement. TERM LOAN PERCENTAGE. With respect to each Lender, the percentage set forth on SCHEDULE 1 attached hereto. TERM NOTE. See section 4.2. VOTING STOCK. Stock or similar interests, of any class or classes (however designated), the holders of which are at the time entitled, as such holders, to vote for the election of a majority of the directors (or persons performing similar functions) of the corporation, association, trust or other business entity involved, whether or not the right so to vote exists by reason of the happening of a contingency. SECTION 1.2. RULES OF INTERPRETATION. (a) A reference to any document or agreement shall include such document or agreement as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with its terms and the terms of this Credit Agreement. (b) The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular. (c) A reference to any law includes any amendment or modification to such law. (d) A reference to any Person includes its permitted successors and permitted assigns. (e) Accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them by generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis by the accounting entity to which they refer. (f) The words "INCLUDE", "INCLUDES" and "INCLUDING" are not limiting. (g) All terms not specifically defined herein or by GAAP, which terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, have the meanings assigned to them therein, with the term "instrument" being that defined under Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code.
-16- (h) Reference to a particular "section" refers to that section of this Credit Agreement unless otherwise indicated. (i) The words "HEREIN", "HEREOF", "HEREUNDER" and words of like import shall refer to this Credit Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section or subdivision of this Credit Agreement. (j) Unless otherwise expressly indicated, in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including," the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding," and the word "through" means "to and including." (k) This Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents may use several different limitations, tests or measurements to regulate the same or similar matters. All such limitations, tests and measurements are, however, cumulative and are to be performed in accordance with the terms thereof. (l) This Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents are the result of negotiation among, and have been reviewed by counsel to, among others, the Agent and the Borrower and are the product of discussions and negotiations among all parties. Accordingly, this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents are not intended to be construed against the Agent or any of the Lenders merely on account of the Agent's or any Lender's involvement in the preparation of such documents. SECTION 2. THE 364-DAY TERM LOAN FACILITY. SECTION 2.1. COMMITMENT TO LEND. (a) subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Credit Agreement, each Lender agrees to lend to the Borrower on the Initial Drawdown Date the amount equal to its Term Loan Percentage of the principal amount of Three Hundred Twenty-Five Million Dollars ($325,000,000); (b) this Credit Agreement, and the obligations of the Lenders hereunder (including the obligation of the Lenders to lend the Term Loan to the Borrower), shall terminate, and the provisions of this Credit Agreement shall no longer have force or effect, if the Term Loan has not been advanced to the Borrower on or before December 31, 2002; and (c) the Agent's Special Counsel shall hold the Term Notes in escrow and (i) shall release such Term Notes to the Lenders on the Initial Drawdown Date or (ii) shall return such Term Notes to the Borrower upon the termination of this Credit Agreement and the obligations of the Lenders hereunder in accordance with this section 2.1. SECTION 2.2. THE TERM NOTES. The Term Loan shall be evidenced by separate promissory notes of the Borrower in substantially the form of EXHIBIT B hereto (each a "TERM NOTE"), dated the Closing Date (or such other date on which a Lender may become a party hereto in accordance with section 15 hereof) and completed with appropriate insertions. One Term Note shall be payable to the order of each Lender in a principal amount equal to such Lender's Term Loan Amount and representing the obligation of the Borrower to pay to such Lender such principal amount, plus interest accrued
-17- thereon, as set forth below. The Borrower irrevocably authorizes each Lender to make or cause to be made a notation on such Lender's Term Note Record reflecting the original principal amount of such Lender's Term Loan Percentage of the Term Loan and, at or about the time of such Lender's receipt of any principal payment on such Lender's Term Note, an appropriate notation on such Lender's Term Note Record reflecting such payment. The aggregate unpaid amount set forth on such Lender's Term Note Record shall be PRIMA FACIE evidence of the principal amount thereof owing and unpaid to such Lender, but the failure to record, or any error in so recording, any such amount on such Lender's Term Note Record shall not affect the obligations of the Borrower hereunder or under any Term Note to make payments of principal of and interest on any Term Note when due. SECTION 2.3. MATURITY AND OTHER REPAYMENTS OF TERM LOAN. 2.3.1. MATURITY. The Borrower promises to pay on the Maturity Date, and there shall become absolutely due and payable on the Maturity Date, all of the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan on such date, together with any and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon. 2.3.2. OPTIONAL PREPAYMENTS OF TERM LOAN. The Borrower shall have the right, at its election, to prepay the Term Loan on or before the Maturity Date, as a whole or in part, at any time, subject to section 3.10, without penalty or premium. The Borrower shall give the Agent, prior written notice no later than 1:00 p.m., Boston time, three (3) Business Days' prior to any proposed prepayment pursuant to this section 2.3.2 of the Term Notes, and specifying the proposed date of prepayment and the principal amount to be prepaid. Each such partial prepayment of the Term Loan shall be in an integral multiple of $5,000,000, shall be accompanied by the payment of accrued interest on the principal prepaid to the date of prepayment. 2.3.3. MANDATORY PREPAYMENTS. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the respective accounts of the Lenders an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of (i) Net Cash Equity Issuance Proceeds or (ii) Net Cash Capital Markets Offering Proceeds other than $325,000,000 in debt offering proceeds described in the offering memorandum dated September 25, 2002, in each case, concurrently with the receipt thereof by the Borrower or any Subsidiary. 2.3.4. APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS. All payments made shall be allocated among the Lenders in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to the respective outstanding amounts of each Lender's Term Loan Percentage, with adjustments to the extent practicable to equalize any prior prepayments not exactly in proportion. No amounts repaid with respect to the Term Loan may be reborrowed. SECTION 2.4. INTEREST ON TERM LOAN. 2.4.1. INTEREST RATES. Except as otherwise provided in section 3.11:
-18- (a) Each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest for the period commencing with the Drawdown Date thereof and ending on the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto at the rate per annum equal to the Base Rate. (b) Each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest for the period commencing with the Drawdown Date thereof and ending on the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto at the Eurodollar Rate determined for such Interest Period PLUS the Applicable Margin. The Borrower promises to pay interest in arrears on each Interest Payment Date. SECTION 2.5. CONVERSION OPTIONS. SECTION 2.5.1. CONVERSION OF THE TERM LOAN. The Borrower may elect from time to time to convert the interest rate with respect to the Term Loan, PROVIDED that (a) with respect to any such conversion of a Eurodollar Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan, the Borrower shall give the Agent at least one (1) Business Day's prior written notice of such election; (b) with respect to any such conversion of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Borrower shall give the Agent at least three (3) Eurodollar Business Days' prior written notice of such election; (c) with respect to any such conversion of a Eurodollar Rate Loan into a Base Rate Loan, such conversion shall only be made on the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto; and (d) no Base Rate Loan may be converted into a Eurodollar Rate Loan when any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. Each Conversion Request relating to the conversion of the Term Loan to a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be irrevocable by the Borrower. SECTION 2.5.2. CONTINUATION OF A EURODOLLAR RATE LOAN. Any Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan upon the expiration of an Interest Period with respect thereto by compliance by the Borrower with the notice provisions contained in section 2.5.1 hereof; PROVIDED that no Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued as such when any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, but shall be automatically converted to a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the first Interest Period relating thereto ending during the continuance of any Default or Event of Default of which officers of the Agent active upon the Borrower's account have actual knowledge. In the event that the Borrower fails to provide any such notice with respect to continuation of a Eurodollar Rate Loan as such, then such Eurodollar Rate shall be automatically converted to a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the Interest Period relating thereto. The Agent shall notify the Lenders and the Borrower promptly when any such automatic conversion contemplated by this section 2.5.2 is scheduled to occur. SECTION 3. CERTAIN GENERAL PROVISIONS; FEES. SECTION 3.1. CLOSING AND AGENT FEES. The Borrower shall pay (a) to the Agent for the accounts of the Lenders on the Closing Date a closing fee as set forth in that certain letter agreement, dated as of the September 18, 2002 (as such agreement may be amended and in effect from time to time, the "FEE LETTER") by and among the Borrower, the Agent and
-19- the Arranger and (b) the fees (the "AGENT FEES") to the Agent and the Arranger in the amounts and at the times set forth in the Fee Letter. SECTION 3.2. FACILITY FEE During the period from the date 31 days after the Closing Date through but excluding the Initial Drawdown Date, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the accounts of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Term Loan Percentages a facility fee (the "FACILITY FEE"), which shall be calculated for each day at a per annum rate of 0.150% on the undrawn principal amount of the Term Loan. The Facility Fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of each calendar quarter for the calendar quarter then ended commencing on the first such date following the date 31 days after the Closing Date, with a final payment on the Initial Drawdown Date or any earlier date that the obligation of the Lenders to lend the Term Loan to the Borrower shall terminate. SECTION 3.3. FUNDS FOR PAYMENTS. SECTION 3.3.1. PAYMENTS TO AGENT. All payments of principal, interest and any other fees or amounts due hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents shall be made to the Agent, for the respective accounts of the Lenders and the Agent, at the Agent's Head Office or at such other location in the Boston, Massachusetts area that the Agent may from time to time designate, in each case in immediately available funds. SECTION 3.3.2. NO OFFSET, ETC. All payments by the Borrower hereunder and under any of the other Loan Documents shall be made without setoff or counterclaim and free and clear of and without deduction for any taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions, withholdings, compulsory loans, restrictions or conditions of any nature now or hereafter imposed or levied by any jurisdiction or any political subdivision thereof or taxing or other authority therein unless the Borrower is compelled by law to make such deduction or withholding. If any such obligation is imposed upon the Borrower with respect to any amount payable by it hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents, other than (a) with respect to taxes based upon the Agent's or any Lender's net income, or (b) with respect to amounts owing to a Lender that (i) is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof and (ii) has not delivered to the Agent the forms referred to in section 3.3.3 hereof, the Borrower will pay to the Agent, for the account of the Lenders or (as the case may be) the Agent, on the date on which such amount is due and payable hereunder or under such other Loan Document, such additional amount in Dollars as shall be necessary to enable the Lenders or the Agent to receive the same net amount which the Lenders or the Agent would have received on such due date had no such obligation been imposed upon the Borrower. The Borrower will deliver promptly to the Agent certificates or other valid vouchers for all taxes or other charges deducted from or paid with respect to payments made by the Borrower hereunder or under such other Loan Document. SECTION 3.3.3. WITHHOLDING. Each Lender and the Agent that is not a U.S. Person as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code for federal income tax purposes (a "NON-
-20- U.S. LENDER") hereby agrees that, if and to the extent it is legally able to do so, it shall, on the date it becomes a Lender hereunder, deliver to the Borrower and the Agent such certificates, documents or other evidence, as and when required by the Code or Treasury Regulations issued pursuant thereto, including (a) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender that is a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, two (2) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI and any other certificate or statement of exemption required by Treasury Regulations, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto, properly completed and duly executed by such Lender or the Agent establishing that with respect to payments of principal, interest or fees hereunder it is (i) not subject to United States federal withholding tax under the Code because such payment is effectively connected with the conduct by such Lender or Agent of a trade or business in the United States or (ii) totally exempt from United States federal withholding tax under a provision of an applicable tax treaty and (b) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender that is not a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, a certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Agent and the Borrower and to the effect that (i) such Non-U.S. Lender is not a "bank" for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, is not subject to regulatory or other legal requirements as a bank in any jurisdiction, and has not been treated as a bank for purposes of any tax, securities law or other filing or submission made to any governmental authority, any application made to a rating agency or qualification for any exemption from any tax, securities law or other legal requirements, (ii) is not a ten (10) percent shareholder for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code and (iii) is not a controlled foreign corporation receiving interest from a related person for purposes of Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, together with a properly completed Internal Revenue Service Form W-8 or W-9, as applicable (or successor forms). Each Lender or the Agent agrees that it shall, promptly upon a change of its lending office or the selection of any additional lending office, to the extent the forms previously delivered by it pursuant to this section are no longer effective, and promptly upon the Borrower's or the Agent's reasonable request after the occurrence of any other event (including the passage of time) requiring the delivery of a Form W-8BEN, Form W-8ECI, Form W-8 or W-9 in addition to or in replacement of the forms previously delivered, deliver to the Borrower and the Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent it is properly entitled to do so, a properly completed and executed Form W-8BEN, Form W-8ECI, Form W-8 or W-9, as applicable (or any successor forms thereto). SECTION 3.4. COMPUTATIONS. All computations of interest on a Base Rate Loan and other fees shall be based on a 365-day or 366-day year, as applicable, and all computations of interest on a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be based on a 360-day year, and, in each case, paid for the actual number of days elapsed. Except as otherwise provided in the definition of the term "INTEREST PERIOD" with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, whenever a payment hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents becomes due on a day that is not a Business Day, the due date for such payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and interest shall accrue during such extension. SECTION 3.5. INABILITY TO DETERMINE EURODOLLAR RATE. In the event, prior to the commencement of any Interest Period relating to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Agent
-21- shall determine or be notified by the Required Lenders that adequate and reasonable methods do not exist for ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate that would otherwise determine the rate of interest to be applicable to any Eurodollar Rate Loan during any Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith give notice of such determination (which shall be conclusive and binding on the Borrower and the Lenders) to the Borrower and the Lenders. In such event (a) any Conversion Request with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be automatically withdrawn and shall be deemed a request for a Base Rate Loan, (b) each Eurodollar Rate Loan will automatically, on the last day of the then current Interest Period relating thereto, become a Base Rate Loan, and (c) the obligations of the Lenders to make a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be suspended until the Agent or the Required Lenders, as applicable, determine that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, whereupon the Agent or, as the case may be, the Agent upon the instruction of the Required Lenders, shall so notify the Borrower and the Lenders. SECTION 3.6. ILLEGALITY. Notwithstanding any other provisions herein, if any present or future law, regulation, treaty or directive or in the interpretation or application thereof shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain a Eurodollar Rate Loan, such Lender shall forthwith give notice of such circumstances to the Borrower and the other Lenders and thereupon the commitment of such Lender to make or convert to a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall forthwith be suspended and such Lender's Term Loan Amount then outstanding as a Eurodollar Rate Loan, if any, shall be converted automatically to Base Rate Loan on the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Rate Loan or within such earlier period as may be required by law. The Borrower hereby agrees promptly to pay the Agent for the account of such Lender, upon demand by such Lender, any additional amounts necessary to compensate such Lender for any costs incurred by such Lender in making any conversion in accordance with this section 3.6, including any interest or fees payable by such Lender to lenders of funds obtained by it in order to make or maintain its Eurodollar Rate Loan hereunder. SECTION 3.7. ADDITIONAL COSTS, ETC. If any change after the Closing Date to any present applicable law or if any future applicable law, which expression, as used herein, includes statutes, rules and regulations thereunder and interpretations thereof by any competent court or by any governmental or other regulatory body or official charged with the administration or the interpretation thereof and requests, directives, instructions and notices at any time or from time to time hereafter made upon or otherwise issued to any Lender or the Agent by any central bank or other fiscal, monetary or other authority (whether or not having the force of law), shall: (a) subject any Lender or the Agent to any tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or withholding of any nature with respect to this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or the Term Loan (other than taxes based upon or measured by the income or profits of such Lender or the Agent), or (b) materially change the basis of taxation (except for changes in taxes on income or profits) of payments to any Lender of the principal of or the interest on the
-22- Term Loan or any other amounts payable to any Lender or the Agent under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, or (c) impose or increase or render applicable (other than to the extent specifically provided for elsewhere in this Credit Agreement) any special deposit, reserve, assessment, liquidity, capital adequacy or other similar requirements (whether or not having the force of law) against assets held by, or deposits in or for the account of, or loans by, any Lender, or (d) impose on any Lender or the Agent any other conditions or requirements with respect to this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or the Term Loan, and the result of any of the foregoing is: (i) to increase the cost to any Lender, of making, funding, issuing, renewing, extending or maintaining its Term Loan Amount, or (ii) to reduce the amount of principal, interest, or other amount payable to such Lender or the Agent hereunder, or (iii) to require such Lender or the Agent to make any payment or to forego any interest or other sum payable hereunder, the amount of which payment or foregone interest or other sum is calculated by reference to the gross amount of any sum receivable or deemed received by such Lender or the Agent from the Borrower hereunder, then, in each such case and to the extent that the amount such additional cost, reduction, payment, foregone interest or other sum is not reflected in the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate, the Borrower will, upon demand made by such Lender or (as the case may be) the Agent at any time and from time to time and as often as the occasion therefor may arise, pay to such Lender or the Agent such additional amounts as will be sufficient to compensate such Lender or the Agent for such additional cost, reduction, payment or foregone interest or other sum (without duplication for recovery of such amounts under any other provision hereof), PROVIDED that the Borrower shall not be liable to any Lender or the Agent for costs incurred more than sixty (60) days prior to receipt by the Borrower of such demand for payment from such Lender or (as the case may be) the Agent unless such costs were incurred prior to such 60-day period solely as a result of such present or future applicable law being retroactive to a date which occurred prior to such 60-day period. SECTION 3.8. CAPITAL ADEQUACY. If after the Closing Date any Lender or the Agent determines that the adoption of or change in any law, governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) regarding capital requirements for banks or bank holding companies or any change in the interpretation or application thereof by a court or governmental authority with appropriate
-23- jurisdiction has the effect of reducing the return on such Lender's or the Agent's the Term Loan Amount to a level below that which such Lender or the Agent could have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such Lender's or the Agent's then existing policies with respect to capital adequacy and assuming full utilization of such entity's capital) by any amount deemed by such Lender or (as the case may be) the Agent to be material, then such Lender or the Agent may notify the Borrower of such fact. To the extent that the amount of such reduction in the return on capital is not reflected in the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate then the Borrower agrees to pay such Lender or (as the case may be) the Agent for the amount of such reduction in the return on capital as and when such reduction is determined upon presentation by such Lender or (as the case may be) the Agent of a certificate in accordance with section 3.9 hereof, PROVIDED that the Borrower shall not be liable to any Lender or the Agent for costs incurred more than sixty (60) days prior to receipt by the Borrower of the notice referred to in the immediately preceding sentence from such Lender or (as the case may be) the Agent. Each Lender shall allocate such cost increases among its customers in good faith and on an equitable basis. SECTION 3.9. CERTIFICATE. A certificate setting forth any additional amounts payable pursuant to sections 3.7 or 3.8 hereof and a brief explanation of such amounts which are due, submitted by any Lender or the Agent to the Borrower, shall be conclusive, absent manifest error, that such amounts are due and owing. If the Borrower is required to pay any additional amounts pursuant to sections 3.7 or 3.8 hereof with respect to any Lender, the Borrower may, following payment in full of the amount or amounts due set forth in such certificate, take the actions permitted by section 3.12 hereof to replace such Lender. SECTION 3.10. INDEMNITY. The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender and to hold each Lender harmless from and against all redeployment costs or expenses that such Lender may reasonably sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) default by the Borrower in payment of the principal amount of or any interest on any Eurodollar Rate Loan as and when due and payable, including any such cost or expense arising from interest or fees payable by such Lender to lenders of funds obtained by it in order to maintain its Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) default by the Borrower in making a conversion after the Borrower has given (or is deemed to have given) a Conversion Request relating thereto in accordance with section 2.5 hereof, or (c) the making of any payment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan or the making of any conversion of any such Eurodollar Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan on a day that is not the last day of the applicable Interest Period with respect thereto, including, without limitation, any payments made under sections 2.3.2, 2.3.3 or 3.12, including interest or fees payable by such Lender to lenders of funds obtained by it in order to maintain the Eurodollar Rate Loan. SECTION 3.11. INTEREST ON OVERDUE AMOUNTS. Overdue principal and (to the extent permitted by applicable law) interest on the Term Loan and all other overdue amounts payable hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents, if not repaid on or before the fifth calendar day following the day such payment was due, shall bear interest from the due date thereof, compounded monthly and payable on demand at any time from and after fifth calendar day following the day
-24- such payment was due, at a rate per annum equal to two percent (2%) above the rate of interest then applicable thereto (or, if no rate of interest is then applicable there to, the Base Rate until such amount shall be paid in full (after as well as before judgment)). SECTION 3.12. REPLACEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL LENDERS. Upon the happening of any of the events set forth in sections 3.6, 3.7 or 3.8, the Borrower may (PROVIDED that at the time no Default or Event of Default exists or would result after giving effect to the Borrower's action) replace each affected Lender (a "SUBSTITUTED LENDER"), subject to the following conditions: (a) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent not less than ten (10) Business Days prior to the exercise of its rights under this section 3.12 a written commitment in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and each of the Lenders from a banking institution (the "REPLACEMENT LENDER") reasonably acceptable to the Agent and each of the remaining Lenders (other than the Substituted Lender) in which such Replacement Lender agrees to become a "LENDER" under this Credit Agreement, having a Term Loan Amount in the amount of the Substituted Lender's Term Loan Amount; (b) the Borrower shall have given appropriate notice of any prepayment under this section 3.12 as required by section 3.7 and subject to all other provisions of this Credit Agreement; (c) the Substituted Lender shall have assigned, pursuant to section 15 hereof, the Term Loan Amount and other Obligations of such Substituted Lender to the Replacement Lender and such Replacement Lender shall have become a Lender under this Credit Agreement having a Term Loan Amount in the amount of such Substitute Lender's Term Loan Amount; and (d) the Borrower shall have paid all other Obligations owed to the Substituted Lender. SECTION 3.13. GUARANTIES. The payment and performance of the Obligations shall be guaranteed by each Guarantor pursuant to the Guaranties, each of which shall be in the form of EXHIBIT C hereto. The Borrower may cause additional Subsidiaries of the Borrower to become Guarantors hereunder (if such Subsidiaries become guarantors of the Revolving Credit Agreement) by causing such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries to agree to be bound by the provisions of the Guaranty, to execute and deliver a Joinder Agreement and to deliver such legal opinions and other documents and instruments as the Agent may request. The Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that they shall, upon the written request of the Borrower and at the cost and expense of the Borrower, release any Guarantor from its obligations to the Agent and the Lenders under the Guaranty to which such Guarantor is a party if, and only if, (a) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such release, (b) the Borrower shall be in compliance with the Obligor Group Requirement after giving effect to such release, (c) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent and the Lenders on the date of such
-25- release a certificate signed by an authorized officer of the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Agent and the Lenders showing compliance with the provisions of clauses (a) and (b) hereof and (d) such Guarantor has been released as a guarantor of the Revolving Credit Agreement. The Borrower shall deliver to the Lenders an updated SCHEDULE 2 upon the release or addition of any Guarantor as provided in this section 3.13. SECTION 4. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Agent as follows: SECTION 4.1. CORPORATE AUTHORITY. SECTION 4.1.1. INCORPORATION; GOOD STANDING. The Borrower and each Guarantor (a) is a corporation or, as the case may be, a Massachusetts Business Trust duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite corporate or, as the case may be, trust power to own its property and conduct its business as now conducted and as presently contemplated, and (c) is in good standing as a foreign corporation and is duly authorized to do business in each jurisdiction where such qualification is necessary except where a failure to be so qualified would not have a materially adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower. SECTION 4.1.2. AUTHORIZATION. The execution, delivery and performance of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents by the Borrower and each Guarantor which is or is to become a party thereto, and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (a) are within the corporate or, as the case may be, trust authority of such Person, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or, as the case may be, trust proceedings, (c) do not conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation to which such Person is subject which would have a material adverse effect either individually or in the aggregate on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or on the ability of such Person to fulfill its obligations under this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party, (d) do not conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of any judgment, order, writ, injunction, license or permit applicable to the Borrower or any Guarantor and (e) do not conflict with any provision of the corporate charter or bylaws or, as the case may be, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust of, or any agreement or other instrument binding upon, the Borrower or any Guarantor. SECTION 4.1.3. ENFORCEABILITY. The execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower or any Guarantor is or is to become a party will result in valid and legally binding obligations of such Person enforceable against it in accordance with the respective terms and provisions hereof and thereof, except as enforceability is limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws relating to or affecting generally the enforcement of creditors' rights and except to the extent that availability of the remedy of specific performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.
-26- SECTION 4.2. GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and the Guarantors of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower or any Guarantor is or is to become a party and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby do not require the approval or consent of, or filing with, any governmental agency or authority other than those already obtained. SECTION 4.3. TITLE TO PROPERTIES; LEASES. Except as indicated on SCHEDULE 4.3 hereto, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries own all of the assets reflected in the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as at the Balance Sheet Date or acquired since that date (except property and assets sold or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business since that date), subject to no rights of others, including any mortgages, leases, conditional sales agreements, title retention agreements, liens or other encumbrances except Permitted Liens. SECTION 4.4. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS; FISCAL YEAR. (a) There has been furnished to each of the Lenders an audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet Date, and consolidated statements of income and cash flow of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, certified by Ernst & Young LLP. Such balance sheet and statements of income and cash flows have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the close of business on the date thereof and the results of operations for the fiscal year then ended. There are no contingent liabilities of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as of such date involving material amounts, known to the officers of the Borrower, which were not disclosed in such balance sheet and the notes related thereto. (b) There has been furnished to each of the Lenders an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at August 3, 2002, and unaudited consolidated statements of income and cash flow of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal quarter then ended. Such balance sheet and statements of income and cash flows have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the close of business on the date thereof and the results of operations for the fiscal quarter then ended (subject to year-end adjustments). There are no contingent liabilities of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as of such date involving material amounts, known to the officers of the Borrower, which were not disclosed in such balance sheet and the notes related thereto. (c) The Borrower has a fiscal year which is the 52/53 week period ending on the Saturday closest to January 31st of each year. SECTION 4.5. NO MATERIAL CHANGES, ETC. Since the Balance Sheet Date there has occurred no change in the operations, business, properties, assets or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as shown on or reflected in the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet Date, or the consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the fiscal year then ended, other than changes in the ordinary course of business that have not had any materially adverse effect either
-27- individually or in the aggregate on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. Since the Balance Sheet Date, the Borrower has not made any Distributions except Distributions made in compliance with section 6.4 hereof. SECTION 4.6. FRANCHISES, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, ETC. The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries possesses all franchises, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, licenses and permits, and rights in respect of the foregoing, adequate for the conduct of its business substantially as now conducted without known conflict with any rights of others. SECTION 4.7. LITIGATION. Except as set forth in SCHEDULE 4.7 hereto, there are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations of any kind pending or, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, threatened against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, tribunal or administrative agency or board that, if adversely determined, might, either in any case or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect the properties, assets, financial condition or business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or materially impair the right of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries to carry on business substantially as now conducted by it, or result in any substantial liability not adequately covered by insurance, or for which adequate reserves are not maintained on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or which question the validity of this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, or any action taken or to be taken pursuant hereto or thereto. SECTION 4.8. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER INSTRUMENTS, LAWS, ETC. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is in violation of any provision of its charter documents, bylaws (or equivalent constitutive documents), or any agreement or instrument to which it may be subject or by which it or any of its properties may be bound or any decree, order, judgment, statute, license, rule or regulation, in any of the foregoing cases in a manner that could result in the imposition of substantial penalties or materially and adversely affect the financial condition, properties or business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. SECTION 4.9. TAX STATUS. The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries (a) has made or filed all applicable federal and state income and all other tax returns, reports and declarations required by any jurisdiction to which it is subject, (b) has paid all taxes and other governmental assessments and charges shown or determined to be due on such returns, reports and declarations, except those being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and (c) has set aside on its books provisions reasonably adequate for the payment of all taxes for periods subsequent to the periods to which such returns, reports or declarations apply. Except as set forth on SCHEDULE 4.9 attached hereto, there are no unpaid taxes in any material amount claimed to be due by the taxing authority of any jurisdiction, and the officers of the Borrower know of no basis for any such claim. SECTION 4.10. NO EVENT OF DEFAULT. No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
-28- SECTION 4.11. HOLDING COMPANY AND INVESTMENT COMPANY ACTS. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is a "HOLDING COMPANY", or a "SUBSIDIARY COMPANY" of a "HOLDING COMPANY", or an "AFFILIATE" of a "HOLDING COMPANY", as such terms are defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; nor is such Person an "INVESTMENT COMPANY", or a "PRINCIPAL UNDERWRITER" of an "INVESTMENT COMPANY", or a company controlled by an "INVESTMENT COMPANY", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940. SECTION 4.12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS. SECTION 4.12.1. IN GENERAL. Each Employee Benefit Plan has been maintained and operated in compliance in all material respects with the provisions of ERISA, all Applicable Pension Legislation, and, to the extent applicable, the Code, including but not limited to the provisions thereunder respecting the bonding of fiduciaries and other persons handling plan funds as required by section 412 of ERISA. No prohibited transaction has occurred that would result in material liability for the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. SECTION 4.12.2. TERMINABILITY OF WELFARE PLANS. No Employee Benefit Plan which is an employee welfare benefit plan within the meaning of section 3(1) or section 3(2)(B) of ERISA provides benefit coverage subsequent to termination except as required by Title I, Subtitle B, Part 6 of ERISA or applicable state law. The Borrower may terminate each such Plan at any time (or at any time subsequent to the expiration of any applicable bargaining agreement) in the discretion of the Borrower without liability to any Person other than for claims arising or benefits accruing prior to termination. SECTION 4.12.3. GUARANTEED PENSION PLANS. Each contribution required to be made to a Guaranteed Pension Plan, whether required to be made to avoid the incurrence of an accumulated funding deficiency, the notice or lien provisions of section 302(f) of ERISA, or otherwise, has been timely made. No waiver of an accumulated funding deficiency or extension of amortization periods has been received with respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan, and neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate is obligated to or has posted security in connection with an amendment to a Guaranteed Pension Plan pursuant to section 307 of ERISA or section 401(a)(29) of the Code. No liability to the PBGC (other than required insurance premiums, all of which have been paid) has been incurred by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate with respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan and there has not been any ERISA Reportable Event, or any other event or condition which presents a material risk of termination of any Guaranteed Pension Plan by the PBGC. Based on the latest valuation of each Guaranteed Pension Plan (which in each case occurred within twelve months of the date of this representation), and on the actuarial methods and assumptions employed for that valuation, except as set forth on SCHEDULE 4.12 attached hereto, the aggregate benefit liabilities of all such Guaranteed Pension Plans within the meaning of section 4001 of ERISA did not exceed the aggregate value of the assets of all such Guaranteed Pension Plans, disregarding for this purpose the benefit liabilities and assets of any Guaranteed Pension Plan with assets in excess of benefit liabilities.
-29- SECTION 4.12.4. MULTIEMPLOYER PLANS. Neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any material liability (including secondary liability) to any Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan under section 4201 of ERISA or as a result of a sale of assets described in section 4204 of ERISA. Neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has been notified that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or insolvent under and within the meaning of section 4241 or section 4245 of ERISA or is at risk of entering reorganization or becoming insolvent, or that any Multiemployer Plan intends to terminate or has been terminated under section 4041A of ERISA. SECTION 4.13. REGULATIONS U AND X, ETC. The proceeds of the Term Loan shall be used for the purposes described in section 5.12 hereof. No portion of the Term Loan is to be used for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any "MARGIN SECURITY" or "MARGIN STOCK" (as such terms are used in Regulations U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 12 C.F.R. Parts 221 and 224 (the "MARGIN REGULATIONs")) in violation of the Margin Regulations. SECTION 4.14. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE. The Borrower has taken all reasonably necessary steps to investigate the past and present condition and usage of the Real Estate and the operations conducted thereon and, based upon such diligent investigation, has determined that: (a) none of the Borrower, its Subsidiaries nor any operator of the Real Estate or any operations thereon is in violation, or alleged violation, of any Environmental Laws, which violation would have a material adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any Environmental Notice during the last five (5) years that has the potential to materially affect the assets, liabilities, financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, except as set forth on SCHEDULE 4.14 hereto; (c) except as set forth on SCHEDULE 4.14 attached hereto: (i) no portion of the Real Estate has been used for the handling, processing, storage or disposal of Hazardous Substances; and no underground tank or other underground storage receptacle for Hazardous Substances is located on any portion of the Real Estate; in each case except in accordance with applicable Environmental Laws the noncompliance with which would have a material adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (ii) in the course of any activities conducted by the Borrower or operators of its properties, no Hazardous Substances have been generated or are being used on the Real Estate except in accordance with applicable Environmental Laws the noncompliance with which would have a material adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (iii) there have been no releases or threatened releases of Hazardous Substances on, upon, into or from the properties of the Borrower or any of its
-30- Subsidiaries, which releases would have a material adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (iv) to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, there have been no releases on, upon, from or into any real property in the vicinity of any of the Real Estate which, through soil or groundwater contamination, may have come to be located on the Real Estate and which would have a material adverse effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; and (v) in addition, any Hazardous Substances that have been generated on any of the Real Estate have, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, been transported offsite only as required under and in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws. SECTION 4.15. SUBSIDIARIES, ETC. As of the Closing Date, other than those Subsidiaries of the Borrower described on SCHEDULE 4.15(a) attached hereto, the Borrower has no other Subsidiaries. As of the Closing Date, except as set forth on SCHEDULE 4.15(b) attached hereto, neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary of the Borrower is engaged in any joint venture or partnership with any other Person. As of the Closing Date, except as set forth on SCHEDULE 4.15(c) attached hereto, neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary of the Borrower owns or has acquired an equity interest of fifty percent (50%) or less in any other Person. The Borrower hereby agrees to deliver to the Lenders an updated SCHEDULE 4.15(a), SCHEDULE 4.15(b) or SCHEDULE 4.15(c), as applicable, upon the acquisition or formation by the Borrower of any Subsidiary, the formation of any joint venture or partnership by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries with any other Person or the acquisition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of an equity interest of fifty percent (50%) or less in any other Person, in each case in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement. SECTION 4.16. PURCHASE AGREEMENT. The Borrower has furnished to the Agent true, complete and correct copies of the Purchase Agreement (excluding schedules, exhibits and annexes thereto) as of the date hereof. SECTION 4.17. PERMITTED DEBT. The incurrence of the Indebtedness hereunder, including without limitation, the Obligations, will be permitted by the terms of all other Indebtedness as of the date of such incurrence. SECTION 5. AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER. The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as the Term Loan or any other Obligation is outstanding: SECTION 5.1. PUNCTUAL PAYMENT. The Borrower will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal and interest on the Term Loan, the Agent Fees, all other fees and other amounts provided for in this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party, all in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement and such other Loan Documents. SECTION 5.2. MAINTENANCE OF OFFICE. The Borrower will maintain its chief executive office in Framingham, Massachusetts, or at such other place in the United States of America as the Borrower shall designate upon written notice to the Agent, where
-31- notices, presentations and demands to or upon the Borrower in respect of the Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party may be given or made. SECTION 5.3. RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS. The Borrower will (a) keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, true and accurate records and books of account in which full, true and correct entries will be made in accordance with GAAP and (b) maintain adequate accounts and reserves for all taxes, depreciation, depletion, obsolescence and amortization of its properties and the properties of its Subsidiaries, contingencies, and other reserves. SECTION 5.4. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CERTIFICATES AND INFORMATION. The Borrower will deliver to the Agent (and the Agent will promptly, after receipt thereof, deliver to the Lenders): (a) as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such year, and the related consolidated statement of income and consolidated statement of cash flow for such year, each setting forth in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year and all such consolidated statements to be in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP, and certified without qualification by Ernst & Young LLP or by other independent certified public accountants reasonably satisfactory to the Agent; (b) as soon as practicable, but in any event not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of the Borrower, copies of the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter, and the related consolidated statement of income and consolidated statement of cash flow for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then elapsed, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, together with a certification by the chief financial officer or the treasurer of the Borrower that to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, the information contained in such financial statements fairly presents the financial position of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date thereof (subject to year-end adjustments); (c) simultaneously with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in subsections (a) and (b) above, a statement certified by the chief financial officer or the treasurer of the Borrower in substantially the form of EXHIBIT D attached hereto (a "COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE") and setting forth in reasonable detail computations evidencing compliance with the covenants contained in section 7 hereof, a calculation of the Obligor Group Requirement and (if applicable) reconciliations to reflect changes in GAAP since the Balance Sheet Date; (d) from time to time such other financial data and information as the Agent or any Lender may reasonably request; and
-32- (e) (i) promptly upon becoming aware of the occurrence of any actual or claimed "EVENT OF TERMINATION" under and as defined in any of the documents relating to the Securitization, notice thereof, which notice shall describe such Event of Termination and indicate what steps the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are taking to remedy the same and (ii) promptly upon request therefor, such other information with respect to the Securitization as the Agent shall reasonably request. All Confidential Information concerning the Borrower supplied by the Borrower to the Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof will be held in confidence by the Lenders and the Lenders shall not disclose such Confidential Information except as permitted by section 23 of this Credit Agreement. SECTION 5.5. NOTICES. The Borrower will promptly notify the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders in writing of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default. The Borrower will promptly give notice to the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders (a) of any material violation of any Environmental Law that the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries reports in writing or is reportable by such Person in writing (or for which any written report supplemental to any oral report is made) to any federal, state or local environmental agency and (b) upon becoming aware thereof, of any inquiry, proceeding, investigation, or other action, including a notice from any agency of potential environmental liability, or any federal, state or local environmental agency or board, that has the potential to materially affect the assets, liabilities, financial conditions or operations of the Borrower. The Borrower will give notice to the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders in writing within fifteen (15) days of becoming aware of any litigation or proceedings threatened in writing or any pending litigation and proceedings affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is or becomes a party involving an uninsured claim against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to have a materially adverse effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole and stating the nature and status of such litigation or proceedings. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, give notice to the Agent for the benefit of the Lenders, in writing, in form and detail satisfactory to the Agent, within ten (10) days of any judgment not covered by insurance, final or otherwise, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in an amount in excess of $1,000,000. SECTION 5.6. LEGAL EXISTENCE; MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTIES. The Borrower will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its legal existence, rights and franchises and those of its Subsidiaries and will not, and will not cause or permit any of the Guarantors to, convert to a limited liability company or a limited liability partnership unless simultaneously with such conversion the Borrower or such Guarantor shall have executed and delivered to the Agent all documentation which the Agent reasonably determines is necessary to continue the Borrower's or such Guarantor's obligations in respect of this Credit Agreement or the Guaranty, as applicable. It (a) will cause all of its properties and those of its Subsidiaries used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of its Subsidiaries to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary
-33- equipment, (b) will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Borrower may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times, and (c) will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, continue to engage primarily in the businesses now conducted by them and in related businesses; PROVIDED that nothing in this section 5.6 shall prevent the Borrower from discontinuing the operation and maintenance of any of its properties or any of those of its Subsidiaries if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Borrower, desirable in the conduct of its or their business and does not in the aggregate materially adversely affect the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. SECTION 5.7. INSURANCE. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain with financially sound and reputable insurers insurance with respect to its properties and business against such casualties and contingencies as shall be in accordance with the general practices of businesses engaged in similar activities in similar geographic areas and in amounts, containing such terms, in such forms and for such periods as may be reasonable and prudent. At the request of the Agent, the Borrower shall deliver from time to time a summary schedule indicating all insurance then in force with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries. SECTION 5.8. TAXES. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, duly pay and discharge, or cause to be paid and discharged, before the same shall become overdue, all taxes, assessments and other governmental charges imposed upon it and its real properties, sales and activities, or any part thereof, or upon the income or profits therefrom, as well as all claims for labor, materials, or supplies that if unpaid might by law become a lien or charge upon any of its property; PROVIDED that any such tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim need not be paid if the validity or amount thereof shall currently be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and if the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto; and PROVIDED FURTHER that the Borrower and each Subsidiary of the Borrower will pay all such taxes, assessments, charges, levies or claims forthwith upon the commencement of proceedings to foreclose any lien that may have attached as security therefor or shall have obtained such bonding as may be required to release such lien. SECTION 5.9. INSPECTION OF PROPERTIES AND BOOKS, ETC. The Borrower shall permit the Lenders, through the Agent or any of the Lenders' other designated representatives, no more frequently than once each calendar year, or more frequently as determined by the Lenders upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, to visit and inspect any of the properties of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and each such inspection, if no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, shall be at the Lenders' expense. The Borrower shall also permit the Lenders, through the Agent or any of the Lenders' other designated representatives, to examine the books of account of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (and to make copies thereof and extracts therefrom), and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries with, and to be advised as to the same by, its and their officers, all at such reasonable
-34- times and intervals as the Agent or any Lender may reasonably request. The Borrower authorizes the Agent and, if accompanied by the Agent, the Lenders to communicate directly with the Borrower's independent certified public accountants and authorizes such accountants to disclose to the Agent and the Lenders any and all financial statements and other supporting financial documents and schedules with respect to the business, financial condition and other affairs of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. SECTION 5.10. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, CONTRACTS, LICENSES, AND PERMITS. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with (a) the applicable laws and regulations wherever its business is conducted, including all Environmental Laws, (b) the provisions of its charter documents and by-laws (or equivalent constitutive documents), (c) all agreements and instruments by which it or any of its properties may be bound and (d) all applicable decrees, orders, and judgments, in each case if noncompliance with which would have a material adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or on the ability of the Borrower or any of the Guarantors to fulfill its obligations under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents to which such Person is a party. If any authorization, consent, approval, permit or license from any officer, agency or instrumentality of any government shall become necessary or required in order that the Borrower may fulfill any of its obligations hereunder or any of the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party, the Borrower will, or (as the case may be) will cause such Subsidiary to, immediately take or cause to be taken all reasonable steps within the power of the Borrower or such Subsidiary to obtain such authorization, consent, approval, permit or license and furnish the Agent and the Lenders with evidence thereof. SECTION 5.11. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS. The Borrower will (a) promptly upon request of the Agent, furnish to the Agent a copy of the most recent actuarial statement required to be submitted under section 103(d) of ERISA and Annual Report, Form 5500, with all required attachments, in respect of each Guaranteed Pension Plan and (b) promptly upon receipt or dispatch, furnish to the Agent any notice, report or demand sent or received in respect of a Guaranteed Pension Plan under sections 302, 4041, 4042, 4043, 4063, 4065, 4066 and 4068 of ERISA, or in respect of a Multiemployer Plan, under sections 4041A, 4202, 4219, 4242, or 4245 of ERISA. SECTION 5.12. USE OF PROCEEDS. The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Term Loan to finance, in part, the Guilbert Acquisition. SECTION 5.13. LICENSES AND PERMITS. The Borrower will maintain and renew any and all licenses or permits now held or hereafter acquired by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries unless the loss, suspension, revocation or failure to renew any such licenses or permits would not have a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Borrower and such Subsidiary. SECTION 5.14. CLOSING OF ACQUISITION. The Borrower shall consummate the Guilbert Acquisition substantially in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement no
-35- later than December 31, 2002. The Borrower shall give the Agent prompt written notice thereof. SECTION 5.15. PRO FORMA COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. The Borrower shall deliver to the Lenders a Compliance Certificate, dated as of the Guilbert Acquisition Closing Date, and based on financial statements prepared on a PRO FORMA basis which include the Obligations and any other financing arrangements made by the Borrower in connection with the Guilbert Acquisition and all interest, fees and expenses related thereto. SECTION 5.16. FURTHER ASSURANCES. The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Guarantors to, cooperate with the Lenders and the Agent and execute such further instruments and documents as the Lenders or the Agent shall reasonably request to carry out to their satisfaction the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents. SECTION 6. CERTAIN NEGATIVE COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER. The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as the Term Loan or any other Obligation is outstanding: SECTION 6.1. RESTRICTIONS ON INDEBTEDNESS. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume, guarantee or become or remain liable, contingently or otherwise, with respect to Indebtedness other than: (a) Indebtedness to the Lenders and the Agent arising under any of the Loan Documents; (b) current liabilities of the Borrower or such Subsidiary incurred in the ordinary course of business not incurred through (i) the borrowing of money, or (ii) the obtaining of credit except for credit on an open account basis customarily extended and in fact extended in connection with normal purchases of goods and services; (c) Indebtedness in respect of taxes, assessments, governmental charges or levies and claims for labor, materials and supplies to the extent that payment therefor shall not at the time be required to be made in accordance with the provisions of section 5.8 hereof; (d) Indebtedness in respect of judgments or awards that have been in force for less than the applicable period for taking an appeal so long as execution is not levied thereunder or in respect of which the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall at the time in good faith be prosecuting an appeal or proceedings for review and in respect of which a stay of execution shall have been obtained pending such appeal or review; (e) endorsements for collection, deposit or negotiation and warranties of products or services, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
-36- (f) Indebtedness in respect of documentary letters of credit issued in the ordinary course of business; (g) Indebtedness of the Borrower in respect of interest rate protection arrangements and exchange rate protection arrangements; (h) Indebtedness existing on the Closing Date and listed and described on SCHEDULE 6.1 hereto or any refinancing thereof on substantially similar terms as the Indebtedness being refinanced; (i) Subordinated Debt; (j) obligations under Capitalized Leases; (k) Indebtedness incurred by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries under the Securitization; (l) Indebtedness in respect of intercompany loans, guaranties and, so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time such Indebtedness is incurred, other Investments and contingent obligations to make Investments, (i) from the Borrower to any of its Subsidiaries or of any of its Subsidiaries' obligations or (ii) between Subsidiaries of the Borrower or of any of the Borrower's Subsidiaries' obligations, or (iii) from any Subsidiary of the Borrower to the Borrower or of any of the Borrower's obligations; (m) Indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition after the Closing Date of any real or personal property by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower as contemplated by section 6.2(ix) hereof; (n) Indebtedness secured by a lien on Real Estate of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries; PROVIDED that the aggregate amount of Indebtedness permitted pursuant to this section 6.1(n) shall not, at any time, exceed the fair market value of the Real Estate securing such Indebtedness; (o) other Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (whether or not such Subsidiaries are Guarantors), PROVIDED that (i) with respect to Indebtedness incurred by the Borrower or a Guarantor, such Indebtedness contains covenants that are no more restrictive on the Borrower or such Guarantor than the covenants contained in this Credit Agreement and (ii) immediately after such incurrence of Indebtedness, and after giving effect thereto on a PRO FORMA basis, no Default or Event of Default shall then exist; (p) Indebtedness consisting of Investments permitted under section 6.3(m) hereof; and
-37- (q) Indebtedness payable at the election of the Borrower by the issuance of the Borrower's capital stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at no time shall the aggregate amount of Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries consisting of guaranties and other Contingent Liabilities (excluding (i) Indebtedness permitted pursuant to section 6.1 to the extent such Indebtedness (or if such Indebtedness is a Contingent Liability of the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries, the underlying Indebtedness relating to such Contingent Liability) is included in the calculation of Consolidated Total Funded Debt) and (ii) obligations in respect of documentary letters of credit) exceed, in the aggregate, 15% of the Stockholders' Equity of the Borrower at such time. For purposes of this Section, the amount of Contingent Liabilities in respect of interest rate protection arrangements and exchange rate protection arrangements permitted under section 6.1(g) at any time shall be the net liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries under such arrangements at such time, calculated on a basis satisfactory to the Agent in accordance with accepted practice. SECTION 6.2. RESTRICTIONS ON LIENS. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (a) create or incur or suffer to be created or incurred or to exist any lien, encumbrance, mortgage, pledge, charge, restriction or other security interest of any kind upon any of its property or assets of any character whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or upon the income or profits therefrom; (b) transfer any of such property or assets or the income or profits therefrom for the purpose of subjecting the same to the payment of Indebtedness or performance of any other obligation in priority to payment of its general creditors; (c) acquire, or agree or have an option to acquire, any property or assets upon conditional sale or other title retention or purchase money security agreement, device or arrangement; (d) suffer to exist for a period of more than thirty (30) days after the same shall have been incurred any Indebtedness or claim or demand against it that if unpaid might by law or upon bankruptcy or insolvency under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof, or otherwise, be given any priority whatsoever over its general creditors; or (e) sell, assign, pledge or otherwise transfer any accounts, contract rights, general intangibles, chattel paper or instruments, with or without recourse; PROVIDED that the Borrower and any Subsidiary of the Borrower may create or incur or suffer to be created or incurred or to exist: (i) liens in favor of the Borrower on all or part of the assets of Subsidiaries of the Borrower securing Indebtedness owing by Subsidiaries of the Borrower to the Borrower; (ii) liens to secure taxes, assessments and other government charges and liens to secure claims for labor, material or supplies, in each case in respect of obligations not overdue or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto;
-38- (iii) deposits or pledges made in connection with, or to secure payment of, worker's compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions or other social security obligations; (iv) liens in respect of judgments or awards that have been in force for less than the applicable period for taking an appeal so long as execution is not levied thereunder or in respect of which the Borrower or such Subsidiary is at the time in good faith prosecuting an appeal and in respect of which a stay of execution shall have been obtained pending such appeal or shall have obtained an unsecured bond sufficient to release such lien; (v) liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics and materialmen, and other like liens, in respect of obligations not overdue or, if such obligations are overdue, being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall have set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto, PROVIDED that no proceeding to foreclose any such lien shall have been commenced; (vi) encumbrances on Real Estate consisting of easements, rights of way, zoning restrictions, restrictions on the use of real property and defects and irregularities in the title thereto, landlord's or lessor's liens under Capitalized Leases to which the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower is a party, and other minor liens or encumbrances none of which in the opinion of the Borrower interferes materially with the use of the property affected in the ordinary conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, which defects do not individually or in the aggregate have a materially adverse effect on the business of the Borrower individually or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; (vii) liens existing on the Closing Date and listed on SCHEDULE 6.2 attached hereto or liens on the same assets in connection with the refinancing of such existing liens; (viii) liens arising in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower none of which in the opinion of the Borrower interferes materially with the use of the property affected in the ordinary course of business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and which do not, individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary individually or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; (ix) purchase money security interests in or purchase money mortgages on real or personal property acquired after the Closing Date to secure purchase money Indebtedness of the type permitted by section 6.1(m) hereof, incurred in connection with the acquisition of such property, which security interests or mortgages cover only the real or personal property so acquired;
-39- (x) liens on accounts receivable of the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries that are the subject of and secure the Securitization; (xi) liens securing other permitted Indebtedness that does not exceed $25,000,000 in the aggregate; (xii) liens in respect of the interests of lessors under Capitalized Leases; and (xiii) liens on Real Estate securing Indebtedness permitted under section 6.1(n) hereof. SECTION 6.3. RESTRICTIONS ON INVESTMENTS. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make or permit to exist or to remain outstanding any Investment except Investments in: (a) marketable direct or guaranteed obligations of the United States of America; (b) demand deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances and time deposits of (i) United States or Canadian banks having total assets in excess of $1,000,000,000 or (ii) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country which is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the "OECD"), or a political subdivision of such country, and having total assets in excess of $1,000,000,000, PROVIDED that such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in the country in which its is organized or another country which is a member of the OECD; (c) (i) securities commonly known as "commercial paper" denominated in Dollars which at the time of purchase have been rated and the ratings for which are not less than "P 1" if rated by Moody's, and not less than "A 1" if rated by S&P; and (ii) securities commonly known as "short-term bank notes" issued by any Lender denominated in Dollars which at the time of purchase have been rated and the ratings for which are not less than "P 2" if rated by Moody's, and not less than "A 2" if rated by S&P; (d) Investments existing on the Closing Date and listed on SCHEDULE 6.3 attached hereto; (e) Investments with respect to Indebtedness permitted by section 6.1(k) hereof so long as such entities remain Subsidiaries of the Borrower; (f) taxable or tax-exempt securities which at the time of purchase have been rated and the ratings for which are not less than A 3 if rated by Moody's, and not less than A- if rated by S&P;
-40- (g) Investments consisting of loans and advances to employees of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, not exceeding $10,000,000 in the aggregate at any one time outstanding; (h) options to invest in or to lease real property to be used in the operations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower; (i) guaranties by endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions effected in the ordinary course of business; (j) (i) the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's guaranty of the Indebtedness of any Subsidiary or the Borrower, and (ii) any other Investments by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in any Subsidiary or the Borrower; (k) Investments by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower to acquire a more than fifty percent (50%) equity interest in any Person, PROVIDED that such acquisition is permitted under section 6.6 hereof; (l) Investments by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower to acquire up to a fifty percent (50%) equity interest in another Person, PROVIDED that (i) such Person is in the same line of business as the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, (ii) the aggregate amount of (A) such Investments in such Person and (B) existing Investments made by the Borrower or any Subsidiary pursuant to this section 6.3(l) shall at no time exceed 65% of the Stockholders' Equity of the Borrower, and (iii) the consideration for such interest shall be the exchange by the Borrower or such Subsidiary as applicable, of a certain number of shares of its common stock for equity securities of the other Person and/or the payment in cash in an aggregate cash amount for any such Investment not to exceed $50,000,000; and (m) Investments consisting of Distributions permitted by section 6.4. SECTION 6.4. DISTRIBUTIONS. The Borrower will not declare any dividend or make any Distribution if any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result after giving effect to such Distribution. SECTION 6.5. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS. Neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate will: (a) engage in any "PROHIBITED TRANSACTION" within the meaning of section 406 of ERISA or section 4975 of the Code which could result in a material liability for the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; or (b) permit any Guaranteed Pension Plan to incur an "ACCUMULATED FUNDING DEFICIENCY", as such term is defined in section 302 of ERISA, whether or not such deficiency is or may be waived; or (c) fail to contribute to any Guaranteed Pension Plan to an extent which, or terminate any Guaranteed Pension Plan in a manner which, could result in the imposition of a lien or encumbrance on the assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to section 302(f) or section 4068 of ERISA; or (d) amend any Guaranteed Pension Plan in circumstances requiring the posting of security pursuant to section 307 of ERISA or section 401(a)(29) of the Code; or (e) permit or take any action which would result in
-41- the aggregate benefit liabilities (with the meaning of section 4001 of ERISA) of all Guaranteed Pension Plans exceeding the value of the aggregate assets of such Plans, disregarding for this purpose the benefit liabilities and assets of any such Plan with assets in excess of benefit liabilities. SECTION 6.6. MERGER AND CONSOLIDATION; ACQUISITIONS. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, merge or consolidate with any other Person; enter into any stock or asset acquisitions (other than the acquisition of assets in the ordinary course of such Person's business and other than the acquisition of stock permitted under section 6.3(j) or section 6.3(l) hereof), enter into any joint venture or partnerships (except to the extent permitted under section 6.3 hereof); or enter into any new lines of business or otherwise change the conduct of the Borrower's or such Subsidiary's business as presently conducted other than (a) the merger or consolidation of one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower with and into the Borrower, PROVIDED that the Borrower is the surviving entity, (b) the merger or consolidation of two or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower, PROVIDED that, if one of the Subsidiaries is a Guarantor, that the Guarantor is the surviving entity, or (c) the acquisition (whether of stock or assets or by means of a merger) of a more than fifty percent (50%) equity interest in any other Person, PROVIDED that (i) immediately after such acquisition, and after giving effect thereto on a PRO FORMA basis, no Default or Event of Default shall then exist, (ii) if required by applicable law, the board of directors and the shareholders or the equivalent, of such other Person has approved such acquisition, (iii) such other Person is in the business of selling office services, products and/or supplies, and (iv) if the Borrower or a Guarantor and such other Person merge, the Borrower or such Guarantor is the surviving entity. SECTION 6.7. DISPOSITION OF ASSETS AND SALE-LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, dispose of or sell assets other than: (a) the disposition of assets in the ordinary course of business; (b) sale-leaseback transactions and other dispositions of assets that do not have a materially adverse effect on the business, assets or financial condition of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, PROVIDED that (i) the aggregate net book value of the assets to be sold PLUS the net book value of all other assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries sold under this clause (b) during the period of time from the Closing Date through the date of such sale does not, at the time of such sale, exceed 25% of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and (ii) such assets are sold in an arm's length transaction for fair market value (after giving effect to all tax benefits, if any, associated with such sale); and (c) the sale of accounts receivable of the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries pursuant to the Securitization. SECTION 6.8. SUBORDINATED DEBT. The Borrower will not effect or permit any change in or amendment to any document or instrument pertaining to the subordination,
-42- covenants, events of default, terms of payment or required prepayments of any Subordinated Debt, give any notice of redemption or prepayment or offer to repurchase under any such document or instrument or, directly or indirectly, make any payment of principal of or interest on or in redemption, retirement or repurchase of any Subordinated Debt, except that (a) the Borrower may make regularly scheduled payments when required by the terms of the Subordinated Debt, and (b) the Borrower may refinance all or a portion of the Subordinated Debt so long as such refinancing Subordinated Debt (i) has a maturity that is no earlier than the Subordinated Debt being refinanced and (ii) is subordinated to the Obligations on terms at least as favorable to the Agent and the Lenders, in the opinion of the Agent and the Required Lenders, as the Subordinated Debt being refinanced. SECTION 7. FINANCIAL COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER. The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as the Term Loan or any other Obligation is outstanding: SECTION 7.1. FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO. As at the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, the Borrower will not permit the ratio (the "FIXED CHARGE COVERAGE RATIO") of (a) the sum of (i) Consolidated EBIT for the period of the four consecutive fiscal quarters (the "MEASUREMENT PERIOD") ending on such date PLUS (ii) the Rental Expense for such Measurement Period, to (b) the sum of (i) the Consolidated Total Interest Expense for such Measurement Period PLUS (ii) the Rental Expense for such Measurement Period, to be less than 1.50 to 1. SECTION 7.2. ADJUSTED FUNDED DEBT TO TOTAL CAPITALIZATION RATIO. As at the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower, the Borrower will not permit the ratio of (a) Consolidated Adjusted Funded Debt as at such date to (b) the sum of (i) Consolidated Adjusted Funded Debt as at such date PLUS (ii) Stockholders' Equity as of such date, to be greater than 0.75 to 1. SECTION 8. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT. SECTION 8.1. CLOSING CONDITIONS. Subject to the conditions set forth in section 8.2 hereof, the obligations of the Lenders to advance the Term Loan shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent on or prior to the Closing Date: SECTION 8.1.1. LOAN DOCUMENTS. Each of the Loan Documents shall have been duly executed and delivered by the respective parties thereto, shall be in full force and effect and shall be in form and substance satisfactory to each of the Lenders. The Agent shall have received a fully executed copy of each such document. SECTION 8.1.2. CERTIFIED COPIES OF CHARTER DOCUMENTS. The Agent shall have received from the Borrower and each of the Guarantors a copy, certified by a duly authorized officer of such Person to be true and complete on the Closing Date, of each of (a) its charter or other incorporation documents (or the equivalent constitutive
-43- documents) as in effect on such date of certification, and (b) its by-laws or the equivalent constitutive documents as in effect on such date. SECTION 8.1.3. CORPORATE ACTION. All corporate (or other) action necessary for the valid execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and each of the Guarantors of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is or is to become a party shall have been duly and effectively taken, and evidence thereof satisfactory to the Lenders shall have been provided to the Agent. SECTION 8.1.4. INCUMBENCY CERTIFICATE. The Agent shall have received from the Borrower and each of the Guarantors an incumbency certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower and each Guarantor, as applicable, and giving the name and bearing a specimen signature of each individual who shall be authorized: (a) to sign, in the name and to the benefit of each of the Borrower and the Guarantors, each of the Loan Documents; (b) with respect to the Borrower, to make Conversion Requests, and (c) to give notices and to take other action on its behalf under the Loan Documents. SECTION 8.1.5. OPINION OF COUNSEL. The Agent shall have received favorable legal opinions addressed to the Lenders and the Agent, dated as of the Closing Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders and the Agent, from (a) Jack A. VanWoerkom, Esq., general counsel to the Borrower and the Guarantors and (b) Hale & Dorr LLP, special counsel to the Borrower and the Guarantors. SECTION 8.1.6. PAYMENT OF FEES. The Borrower shall have paid to the Agent and the Arranger, as appropriate, the Agent Fees, the Closing Fee and all other fees and expenses (including without limitation all reasonable legal fees and disbursements of the Agent's Special Counsel) required to be paid by it on or prior to the Closing Date. SECTION 8.1.7. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. The Borrower shall have delivered to the Lenders a Compliance Certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, and based on the financial statements of the Borrower for the fiscal quarter ended in August 3, 2002. SECTION 8.1.8. UCC SEARCH RESULTS. The Agent shall have received the results of UCC searches (and the equivalent thereof in all applicable foreign jurisdictions), indicating no Liens other than Permitted Liens and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent. SECTION 8.1.9. CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE. The Agent shall have received a certificate of insurance from an independent insurance broker dated as of the Closing Date, identifying insurers, types of insurance, insurance limits, and policy terms, and otherwise describing the insurance of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries. SECTION 8.1.10. NO MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE. The Agent shall be satisfied that there shall have occurred no material adverse change in the business, operations, assets, properties or condition of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, since the Balance Sheet Date.
-44- SECTION 8.1.11. REPRESENTATIONS TRUE; NO EVENT OF DEFAULT. Each of the representations and warranties of any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries contained in this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or in any document or instrument delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Credit Agreement shall be true as of the date as of which they were made and shall also be true at and as of the time of the making of the Term Loan, with the same effect as if made at and as of that time (except to the extent of changes resulting from transactions contemplated or permitted by this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents and changes occurring in the ordinary course of business that singly or in the aggregate are not materially adverse, and to the extent that such representations and warranties relate expressly to an earlier date) and no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. SECTION 8.1.12. NO LEGAL IMPEDIMENT. No change shall have occurred in any law or regulations thereunder or interpretations thereof that in the reasonable opinion of any Lender would make it illegal for such Lender to make the Term Loan. SECTION 8.1.13. GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION. Each Lender shall have received such statements in substance and form reasonably satisfactory to such Lender as such Lender shall require for the purpose of compliance with any applicable regulations of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. SECTION 8.1.14. PROCEEDINGS AND DOCUMENTS. All proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents and all other documents incident thereto shall be reasonably satisfactory in substance and in form to the Lenders and to the Agent and the Agent's Special Counsel, and the Lenders, the Agent and such counsel shall have received all information and such counterpart originals or certified or other copies of such documents as the Agent may reasonably request. SECTION 8.2. CONDITIONS TO FUNDING. The obligations of the Lenders to advance the Term Loan shall also be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent on or prior to the Initial Drawdown Date: SECTION 8.2.1. REPRESENTATIONS TRUE; NO EVENT OF DEFAULT. Each of the representations and warranties of any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries contained in this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or in any document or instrument delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Credit Agreement shall be true as of the date as of which they were made and shall also be true at and as of the time of the making of the Term Loan, with the same effect as if made at and as of that time (except to the extent of changes resulting from transactions contemplated or permitted by this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents and changes occurring in the ordinary course of business that singly or in the aggregate are not materially adverse, and to the extent that such representations and warranties relate expressly to an earlier date) and no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
-45- SECTION 8.2.2. NO LEGAL IMPEDIMENT. No change shall have occurred in any law or regulations thereunder or interpretations thereof that in the reasonable opinion of any Lender would make it illegal for such Lender to make the Term Loan. SECTION 8.2.3. EUROPEAN COMMISSION APPROVAL. The European Commission shall have granted all necessary approvals (the "EC Approvals") with respect to the Guilbert Acquisition substantially in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement. The Borrower shall have delivered to the Agent satisfactory evidence thereof, certified as true and correct by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower. SECTION 8.2.4. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. The Borrower shall have delivered to the Lenders a Compliance Certificate, dated as of the Initial Drawdown Date, and based on financial statements prepared on a PRO FORMA basis which include the Obligations and any other financing arrangements made by the Borrower in connection with the Guilbert Acquisition and all interest, fees and expenses related thereto. SECTION 8.2.5. DEADLINE FOR INITIAL DRAWDOWN. The Borrower shall have (i) satisfied the conditions precedent set forth in this section 8.2 and (ii) requested that the Lenders advance the Term Loan on or before the earlier of (x) fifteen (15) days after receiving the EC Approvals in accordance with section 8.2.3 or (y) December 31, 2002; and provided further that the Guilbert Acquisition shall occur no later than December 31, 2002. SECTION 9. EVENTS OF DEFAULT; ACCELERATION; ETC. SECTION 9.1. EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND ACCELERATION. If any of the following events ("EVENTS OF DEFAULT" or, if the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both is required, then, prior to such notice or lapse of time, "DEFAULTS") shall occur and be continuing: (a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of the Term Loan when the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated date of maturity or any accelerated date of maturity or at any other date fixed for payment; (b) the Borrower or any Guarantor shall fail to pay any interest on the Term Loan, the Agent Fees, other fees or other sums due hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents, within five (5) Business Days of the date when the same shall become due and payable, whether at the stated date of maturity or any accelerated date of maturity or at any other date fixed for payment; (c) the Borrower (i) shall fail to comply with any of its covenants contained in sections 5.4, 5.5, 5.10, 6 or 7 hereof, or (ii) shall fail to comply with its covenant contained in section 5.6 hereof and such failure shall continue for thirty (30) days; (d) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to perform any term, covenant or agreement contained herein or in any of the other Loan Documents (other than those specified elsewhere in this section 9.1) for thirty (30) days after written notice of such failure has been given to the Borrower by the Agent;
-46- (e) any material representation or warranty of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or in any other document or instrument delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Credit Agreement shall prove to have been false in any material respect upon the date when made or deemed to have been made or repeated; (f) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay at maturity, or within any applicable period of grace, any obligation for borrowed money or credit received or in respect of any Capitalized Leases or any obligations with respect to interest rate protection arrangements or exchange rate protection arrangements which, in the aggregate, represents Indebtedness (calculated, with respect to interest rate protection arrangements and exchange rate protection arrangements based on the notional principal amount thereof) of $25,000,000 or more, or fail to observe or perform any material term, covenant or agreement contained in any agreement by which it is bound, evidencing or securing borrowed money or credit received or in respect of any Capitalized Leases or evidencing any interest rate protection arrangement or exchange rate protection arrangement which in the aggregate represents Indebtedness (calculated, with respect to interest rate protection arrangements and exchange rate protection arrangements based on the notional principal amount thereof) of $25,000,000 or more, and for such period of time as would permit (assuming the giving of appropriate notice if required) the holder or holders thereof or of any obligations issued thereunder to accelerate the maturity thereof; (g) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or admit in writing its inability to pay or generally fail to pay its debts as they mature or become due, or shall petition or apply for the appointment of a trustee or other custodian, liquidator or receiver of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or of any substantial part of the assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or shall commence any case or other proceeding relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, readjustment of debt, dissolution or liquidation or similar law of any jurisdiction, now or hereafter in effect, or shall take any action to authorize or in furtherance of any of the foregoing, or if any such petition or application shall be filed or any such case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and shall not have been dismissed within sixty (60) days, or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall indicate its approval thereof, consent thereto or acquiescence therein; (h) a decree or order is entered appointing any such trustee, custodian, liquidator or receiver or adjudicating the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries bankrupt or insolvent, or approving a petition in any such case or other proceeding, or a decree or order for relief is entered in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower in an involuntary case under federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter constituted; (i) there shall remain in force, undischarged, unsatisfied and unstayed, for more than sixty (60) days, whether or not consecutive, any final judgment
-47- against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that, with other outstanding final judgments, undischarged, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries exceeds in the aggregate $10,000,000; (j) with respect to any Guaranteed Pension Plan, an ERISA Reportable Event, or a failure to make a required installment or other payment (within the meaning of section 302(f)(1) of ERISA), shall have occurred and the Required Lenders shall have determined in their reasonable discretion that such event reasonably could be expected to result in liability of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the PBGC or such Guaranteed Pension Plan in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000,000 and such event in the circumstances occurring reasonably could constitute grounds for the termination of such Guaranteed Pension Plan by the PBGC, for the appointment by the appropriate United States District Court of a trustee to administer such Guaranteed Pension Plan or for the imposition of a Lien in favor of such Guaranteed Pension Plan; or a trustee shall have been appointed by the United States District Court to administer such Plan; or the PBGC shall have instituted proceedings to terminate such Guaranteed Pension Plan; (k) the holders of all or any part of the Subordinated Debt shall accelerate the maturity of all or any part of the Subordinated Debt or the Subordinated Debt shall be prepaid, redeemed or repurchased in whole or in part, or an offer to prepay, redeem or repurchase the Subordinated Debt in whole or in part shall have been made, in each case in violation of the provisions of this Credit Agreement; (l) if any of the Loan Documents shall be canceled, terminated, revoked or rescinded, in each case otherwise than in accordance with the terms thereof or with the express prior written agreement, consent or approval of the Lenders, or any action at law, suit or in equity or other legal proceeding to cancel, revoke or rescind any of the Loan Documents shall be commenced by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries party thereto or any of their respective stockholders, or any court or any other governmental or regulatory authority or agency of competent jurisdiction shall make a determination that, or issue a judgment, order, decree or ruling to the effect that, any one or more of the Loan Documents is illegal, invalid or unenforceable in accordance with the terms thereof; or (m) a "CHANGE IN CONTROL" shall have occurred (which for the purposes of this subsection (m) shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events): (i) the acquisition by any Person (including any syndicate or group deemed to be a "PERSON" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, through a purchase, merger or other acquisition transaction or series of transactions, of shares of Capital Stock of the Borrower entitling such Person to exercise 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of Capital Stock of the Borrower entitled to vote generally in the elections of directors (any shares of voting stock of which such person or group is the
-48- beneficial owner that are not then outstanding being deemed outstanding for purposes of calculating such percentage); (ii) any consolidation of the Borrower with, or merger of the Borrower into, any other Person, any merger of another Person into the Borrower, or any sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower to another Person (other than a transfer of assets to one or more Guarantors or a merger (A) which does not result in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of outstanding shares of Capital Stock of the Borrower or (B) which is effected solely to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of the Borrower); or (iii) during any consecutive two-year period, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of the Borrower (together with any new directors whose election by such Board of Directors or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of the Borrower was approved by a vote of 66-2/3% of the directors then still in office who were either directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Borrower then in office; (n) any of (i) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to make any payment under the Securitization when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise), and any such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the documents relating to the Securitization, or (ii) the "TERMINATION DATE" (under and as defined in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2000, among the Borrower, Lincolnshire Funding, LLC, Corporate Receivables Corporation, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto as Purchasers, and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Agent or any replacement agreement therefor entered into as permitted by this Credit Agreement) shall have been declared to have occurred pursuant to Section 7.01 of such Receivables Purchase Agreement or any replacement agreement therefor entered into as permitted by this Credit Agreement, or (iii) any "EVENT OF TERMINATION" (under and as defined in any of the documents relating to the Securitization or any replacement agreement therefor entered into as permitted by the Credit Agreement) shall occur and continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such documents if either, pursuant to such documents, (A) the existence of such Event of Termination would cause the Termination Date to occur or (B) the existence of such Event of Termination would permit the Purchaser under such documents to declare the Termination Date to have occurred and such Event of Termination continues unremedied or unwaived for a period of more than ninety (90) days after the date that the Agent gives notice to the Borrower of such Event of Termination; or (q) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at any time shall not be in compliance with the Obligor Group Requirement and such failure continues for twenty (20) days
-49- following the date on which a Compliance Certificate is to be delivered by the Borrower pursuant to section 6.4(c) hereof; then, and in any such event, so long as the same may be continuing, the Agent may, and upon the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice in writing to the Borrower declare all amounts owing with respect to this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and they shall thereupon forthwith become, immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; PROVIDED that in the event of any Event of Default specified in section 9.1(g) or 9.1(h) hereof, all such amounts shall become immediately due and payable automatically and without any requirement of notice from the Agent or any Lender. SECTION 9.2. REMEDIES. In case any one or more of the Events of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and whether or not the Lenders shall have accelerated the maturity of the Term Loan pursuant to section 9.1 hereof, each Lender, if owed any amount with respect to the Term Loan and upon the consent of the Majority Lenders, may proceed to protect and enforce its rights by suit in equity, action at law or other appropriate proceeding, whether for the specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained in this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any instrument pursuant to which the Obligations to such Lender are evidenced, including as permitted by applicable law the obtaining of the EX PARTE appointment of a receiver, and, if such amount shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, proceed to enforce the payment thereof or any other legal or equitable right of such Lender. No remedy herein conferred upon any Lender or the Agent or the holder of any Term Note is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy and each and every remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute or any other provision of law. SECTION 10. SETOFF. Regardless of the adequacy of any collateral, during the continuance of any Event of Default, any deposits or other sums credited by or due from any of the Lenders to the Borrower and any securities or other property of the Borrower in the possession of such Lender may be applied to or set off by such Lender against the payment of Obligations and any and all other liabilities, direct, or indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising, of the Borrower to such Lender. Each of the Lenders agrees with each other Lender that (a) if an amount to be set off is to be applied to Indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender, other than Indebtedness evidenced by the Term Notes held by such Lender, such amount shall be applied ratably to such other Indebtedness (except that no amounts shall be applied to documentary letters of credit) and to the Indebtedness evidenced by all such Term Notes held by such Lender, and (b) if such Lender shall receive from the Borrower, whether by voluntary payment, exercise of the right of setoff, counterclaim, cross action, enforcement of the claim evidenced by the Term Notes held by such Lender by proceedings against the Borrower at law or in equity or by proof thereof in bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation, receivership or similar proceedings, or otherwise, and shall retain and apply
-50- to the payment of the Term Notes held by such Lender any amount in excess of its ratable portion of the payments received by all of the Lenders with respect to the Term Notes held by, all of the Lenders, such Lender will make such disposition and arrangements with the other Lenders with respect to such excess, either by way of distribution, PRO TANTO assignment of claims, subrogation or otherwise as shall result in each Lender receiving in respect of the Term Notes held by it, its proportionate payment as contemplated by this Credit Agreement; PROVIDED that if all or any part of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such Lender, such disposition and arrangements shall be rescinded and the amount restored to the extent of such recovery, but without interest. SECTION 11. THE AGENT. SECTION 11.1. AUTHORIZATION. (a) The Agent is authorized to take such action on behalf of each of the Lenders and to exercise all such powers as are hereunder and under any of the other Loan Documents and any related documents delegated to the Agent, together with such powers as are reasonably incident thereto, PROVIDED that no duties or responsibilities not expressly assumed herein or therein shall be implied to have been assumed by the Agent. (b) The relationship between the Agent and the Lenders is and shall be that of an independent contractor. The use of the term "AGENT" herein is for convenience only and is used to describe, as a form of convention, the independent contractual relationship between the Agent and each of the Lenders. Nothing contained in this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents shall be construed to create an agency, trust or other fiduciary relationship between the Agent and any of the Lenders. (c) As an independent contractor empowered by the Lenders to exercise certain rights and perform certain duties and responsibilities hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the Agent is nevertheless a "REPRESENTATIVE" of the Lenders, as that term is defined in Article 1 of the Uniform Commercial Code, for purposes of actions for the benefit of the Lenders with respect to all collateral security and guaranties contemplated by the Loan Documents. Such actions include the designation of the Agent as "SECURED PARTY", "MORTGAGEE", "LIENHOLDER" or the like on all financing statements, motor vehicle titles and other documents and instruments, whether recorded or otherwise, relating to the attachment, perfection, priority or enforcement of any security interests, mortgages, liens or deeds of trust in collateral security intended to secure the payment or performance of any of the Obligations, all for the benefit of the Lenders and the Agent. SECTION 11.2. EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS. The Agent may exercise its powers and execute its duties by or through employees or agents and shall be entitled to take, and to rely on, advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to its rights and duties under this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents. The Agent may utilize the services of
-51- such Persons as the Agent in its sole discretion may reasonably determine, and all reasonable fees and expenses of any such Persons shall be paid by the Borrower. SECTION 11.3. NO LIABILITY. Neither the Agent nor any of its shareholders, directors, officers or employees nor any other Person assisting them in their duties nor any agent or employee thereof, shall be liable to the Lenders for any waiver, consent or approval given or any action taken, or omitted to be taken, in good faith by it or them hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents, or in connection herewith or therewith, or be responsible for the consequences of any oversight or error of judgment whatsoever, except that the Agent or such other Person, as the case may be, may be liable for losses due to its willful misconduct or gross negligence. SECTION 11.4. NO REPRESENTATIONS. SECTION 11.4.1. GENERAL. The Agent shall not be responsible for the execution or validity or enforceability of this Credit Agreement, any of the other Loan Documents or any instrument at any time constituting, or intended to constitute, collateral security for the Term Notes, or for the value of any such collateral security or for the validity, enforceability or collectability of any such amounts owing with respect to the Term Notes, or for any recitals or statements, warranties or representations made herein or in any of the other Loan Documents or in any certificate or instrument hereafter furnished to it by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or be bound to ascertain or inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, conditions, covenants or agreements herein or in any instrument at any time constituting, or intended to constitute, collateral security for the Term Notes or to inspect any of the properties, books or records of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. The Agent shall not be bound to ascertain whether any notice, consent, waiver or request delivered to it by the Borrower or any holder of any of the Term Notes shall have been duly authorized or is true, accurate and complete. The Agent has not made nor does it now make any representations or warranties, express or implied, nor does it assume any liability to the Lenders, with respect to the creditworthiness or financial conditions of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender, and based upon such information and documents as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Credit Agreement. SECTION 11.4.2. CLOSING DOCUMENTATION, ETC. For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions set forth in section 8, each Lender that has executed this Credit Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted, or to be satisfied with, each document and matter either sent, or made available, by the Agent or the Arranger to such Lender for consent, approval, acceptance or satisfaction, or required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to such Lender, unless an officer of the Agent or the Arranger active upon the Borrower's account shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the Closing Date specifying such Lender's objection thereto and such objection shall not have been withdrawn by notice to the Agent or the Arranger to such effect on or prior to the Closing Date.
-52- SECTION 11.5. PAYMENTS. SECTION 11.5.1. PAYMENTS TO AGENT. A payment by the Borrower to the Agent hereunder or any of the other Loan Documents for the account of any Lender shall constitute a payment to such Lender. The Agent agrees promptly to distribute to each Lender such Lender's PRO RATA share of payments received by the Agent for the account of the Lenders except as otherwise expressly provided herein or in any of the other Loan Documents. SECTION 11.5.2. DISTRIBUTION BY AGENT. If in the opinion of the Agent the distribution of any amount received by it in such capacity hereunder, under the Term Notes or under any of the other Loan Documents might involve it in liability, it may refrain from making distribution until its right to make distribution shall have been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction. If a court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge that any amount received and distributed by the Agent is to be repaid, each Person to whom any such distribution shall have been made shall either repay to the Agent its proportionate share of the amount so adjudged to be repaid or shall pay over the same in such manner and to such Persons as shall be determined by such court. SECTION 11.5.3. DELINQUENT LENDERS. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, any Lender that fails to comply with the provisions of section 10 hereof with respect to making dispositions and arrangements with the other Lenders, where such Lender's share of any payment received, whether by setoff or otherwise, is in excess of its PRO RATA share of such payments due and payable to all of the Lenders, in each case as, when and to the full extent required by the provisions of this Credit Agreement, shall be deemed delinquent (a "DELINQUENT LENDER") and shall be deemed a Delinquent Lender until such time as such delinquency is satisfied. A Delinquent Lender shall be deemed to have assigned any and all payments due to it from the Borrower, whether on account of the outstanding principal, interest, fees or otherwise, to the remaining nondelinquent Lenders for application to, and reduction of, their respective PRO RATA shares of the outstanding Obligations. The Delinquent Lender hereby authorizes the Agent to distribute such payments to the nondelinquent Lenders in proportion to their respective PRO RATA shares of the outstanding Obligations. A Delinquent Lender shall be deemed to have satisfied in full a delinquency when and if, as a result of application of the assigned payments to the outstanding Obligations of the nondelinquent Lenders, the Lenders' respective PRO RATA shares of the outstanding Obligations have returned to those in effect immediately prior to such delinquency and without giving effect to the nonpayment causing such delinquency. SECTION 11.6. HOLDERS OF TERM NOTES. The Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Term Note as the absolute owner or purchaser thereof for all purposes hereof until it shall have been furnished in writing with a different name by such payee or by a subsequent holder, assignee or transferee. SECTION 11.7. INDEMNITY. The Lenders ratably agree hereby to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent from and against any and all claims, actions and suits (whether
-53- groundless or otherwise), losses, damages, costs, expenses (including any expenses for which the Agent has not been reimbursed by the Borrower as required by section 13 hereof), and liabilities of every nature and character arising out of or related to this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated or evidenced hereby or thereby, or the Agent's actions taken hereunder or thereunder, except to the extent that any of the same shall be directly caused by the Agent's willful misconduct or gross negligence. SECTION 11.8. AGENT AS LENDER; ETC. In its individual capacity, Fleet shall have the same obligations and the same rights, powers and privileges in respect to its Term Loan Amount, and as the holder of any of the Term Notes, as it would have were it not also the Agent. SECTION 11.9. RESIGNATION. The Agent may resign at any time by giving sixty (60) days' prior written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Agent. Unless a Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, such successor Agent shall be reasonably acceptable to the Borrower. If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within thirty (30) days after the retiring Agent's giving of notice of resignation, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent reasonably acceptable to the Borrower, which shall be a financial institution having a rating of not less than A or its equivalent by S&P. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After any retiring Agent's resignation, the provisions of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Agent. SECTION 11.10. NOTIFICATION OF DEFAULTS AND EVENTS OF DEFAULT. Each Lender hereby agrees that, upon learning of the existence of a Default or an Event of Default, it shall promptly notify the Agent thereof. The Agent hereby agrees that upon receipt of any notice under this section 11.10 it shall promptly notify the other Lenders and the Borrower of the existence of such Default or Event of Default. SECTION 12. EXPENSES. The Borrower agrees to pay (a) the Agent's reasonable costs of producing and reproducing this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the other agreements and instruments mentioned herein, (b) any taxes (including any interest and penalties in respect thereto) payable by the Agent or any of the Lenders (other than taxes based upon the Agent's or any Lender's net income or taxes not payable by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of this Credit Agreement) on the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement (the Borrower hereby agreeing to indemnify the Agent and each Lender with respect thereto), (c) the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of the Agent's Special Counsel or any local counsel to the Agent incurred in connection
-54- with the preparation, administration or interpretation of the Loan Documents and other instruments mentioned herein, each closing hereunder, and amendments, modifications, approvals, consents or waivers hereto or hereunder, (d) the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of the Agent incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, administration or interpretation of the Loan Documents and other instruments mentioned herein, including all insurance premiums and surveyor, engineering and appraisal charges, (e) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees (including the allocated costs of in-house counsel) and costs and reasonable accounting, appraisal, investment banking and similar professional fees and charges) incurred by the Agent or any Lender in connection with (i) the enforcement of or preservation of rights under any of the Loan Documents against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or the administration thereof after the occurrence of an Event of Default and (ii) any other litigation, proceeding or dispute whether arising hereunder or otherwise, in any way related to any Lender's or the Agent's relationship with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any litigation, proceeding or dispute referred to in section 13 hereof) but only if such Lender or the Agent is the prevailing party in such litigation, proceeding or dispute, and (f) all reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of the Agent incurred in connection with UCC searches. The Borrower shall not pay the fees, expenses and disbursements incurred by any Lender other than the Agent in connection with the review and preparation of this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents and the other agreements and instruments mentioned herein. The covenants of this section 12 shall survive payment or satisfaction of all other Obligations. SECTION 13. INDEMNIFICATION. The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent, the Arranger, the Lenders and their respective affiliates, officers, directors and employees from and against any and all claims, actions and suits whether groundless or otherwise, and from and against any and all liabilities, losses, damages and expenses of every nature and character arising out of this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby including, without limitation, (a) any actual or proposed use by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of the proceeds of the Term Loan, (b) the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries entering into or performing this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or (c) with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and their respective properties and assets, the violation of any Environmental Law, the presence, disposal, escape, seepage, leakage, spillage, discharge, emission, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Substances or any action, suit, proceeding or investigation brought or threatened with respect to any Hazardous Substances (including, but not limited to, claims with respect to wrongful death, personal injury or damage to property), in each case including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel incurred in connection with any such investigation, litigation or other proceeding, but excluding liabilities, losses, damages or expenses which are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final order to result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Person seeking indemnification hereunder. In litigation, or the preparation therefor, the Lenders, the
-55- Arranger and the Agent shall be entitled to select their own counsel and, in addition to the foregoing indemnity, the Borrower agrees to pay promptly the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. If, and to the extent that the obligations of the Borrower under this section 13 are unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower hereby agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment in satisfaction of such obligations which is permissible under applicable law. The covenants contained in this section 13 shall survive payment or satisfaction in full of all other Obligations. SECTION 14. SURVIVAL OF COVENANTS, ETC. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made herein, in the Term Notes, in any of the other Loan Documents or in any documents or other papers delivered by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant hereto shall be deemed to have been relied upon by the Lenders and the Agent, notwithstanding any investigation heretofore or hereafter made by any of them, and shall survive the making by the Lenders of the Term Loan, as herein contemplated, and shall continue in full force and effect so long as any amount due under this Credit Agreement or the Term Notes or the other Loan Documents remains outstanding, and for such further time as may be otherwise expressly specified in this Credit Agreement. All statements contained in any certificate or other paper delivered to any Lender or the Agent at any time by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant hereto or in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall constitute representations and warranties by the Borrower or such Subsidiary hereunder. SECTION 15. ASSIGNMENT AND PARTICIPATION. SECTION 15.1. CONDITIONS TO ASSIGNMENT BY LENDERS. Except as provided herein, each Lender may assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement (including all or a portion of its Term Loan Amount at the time owing to it and the Term Notes held by it); PROVIDED that (a) except in the case of an assignment by a Lender to (i) the financial institution acquiring such Lender in conjunction with the sale or merger of such Lender or (ii) any member of the Approved Lending Group, each of the Agent and, so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower, shall have given its prior written consent to such assignment, which consent, in each case, will not be unreasonably withheld, (b) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement, (c) each assignment shall be in an amount that is a minimum of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof, unless such assignment is to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate of the assigning Lender, in which case there shall be no such minimum amount, or is an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Term Loan Amount owing to it, and (d) the parties to such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for recording in the Register (as hereinafter defined), an Assignment and Acceptance, substantially in the form of EXHIBIT E attached hereto (an "ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE"), together with any Term Notes subject to such assignment. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee
-56- thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder, and (y) the assigning Lender shall, to the extent provided in such assignment and upon payment to the Agent of the registration fee referred to in section 15.3 hereof, be released from its obligations under this Credit Agreement. SECTION 15.2. CERTAIN REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; LIMITATIONS; COVENANTS. By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the parties to the assignment thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (a) other than the representation and warranty that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim, the assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty, express or implied, and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Credit Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or the attachment, perfection or priority of any security interest or mortgage; (b) the assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or any other Person primarily or secondarily liable in respect of any of the Obligations, or the performance or observance by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or any other Person primarily or secondarily liable in respect of any of the Obligations of any of their obligations under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; (c) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements referred to in sections 4.4 and 5.4 hereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (d) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the assigning Lender, the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement; (e) such assignee represents and warrants that it is an Eligible Assignee; (f) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; (g) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender; and (h) such assignee represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance. SECTION 15.3. REGISTER. The Agent shall maintain a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register or similar list (the "REGISTER") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Term Loan Percentages, and the Term Loan Amounts owing to the Lenders from time to time. The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Borrower, the
-57- Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Credit Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and the Lenders at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. Upon each such recordation, other than with respect to assignments by any Lender to (a) any Lender Affiliate of such Lender, (b) any of the twelve (12) Federal Reserve Banks as provided in section 15.7 hereof or (c) any other Lender hereunder, the assigning Lender agrees to pay to the Agent a registration fee in the sum of $3,500. SECTION 15.4. NEW TERM NOTES. Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by the parties to such assignment, together with each Term Note subject to such assignment, the Agent shall (a) record the information contained therein in the Register, and (b) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders (other than the assigning Lender). Within five (5) Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrower, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Agent, in exchange for each surrendered Term Note, a new Term Note to the order of such Eligible Assignee in an amount equal to the amount assumed by such Eligible Assignee pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance and, if the assigning Lender has retained some portion of its obligations hereunder, a new Term Note to the order of the assigning Lender in an amount equal to the amount retained by it hereunder. Such new Term Notes shall provide that they are replacements for the surrendered Term Notes, shall be in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the surrendered Term Notes, shall be dated the effective date of such Assignment and Acceptance and shall otherwise be substantially the form of the assigned Term Notes. The surrendered Term Notes shall be canceled and returned to the Borrower. SECTION 15.5. PARTICIPATIONS. Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents; PROVIDED that (a) each such participation shall be in an amount of not less than $5,000,000, (b) any such sale or participation shall not affect the rights and duties of the selling Lender hereunder to the Borrower and (c) the only rights granted to the participant pursuant to such participation arrangements with respect to waivers, amendments or modifications of the Loan Documents shall be the rights to approve waivers, amendments or modifications that would (i) reduce the principal of or the interest rate on the Term Loan, (ii) extend the term or increase the Term Loan Amount of such Lender as it relates to such participant, (iv) extend any regularly scheduled payment date for principal or interest or (v) release any collateral for the Obligations. SECTION 15.6. ASSIGNEE OR PARTICIPANT AFFILIATED WITH THE BORROWER. If any assignee Lender is an Affiliate of the Borrower, then any such assignee Lender shall have no right to vote as a Lender hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents for purposes of granting consents or waivers or for purposes of agreeing to amendments or other modifications to any of the Loan Documents or for purposes of making requests to the Agent pursuant to section 9.1 hereof, and the determination of the Required Lenders shall for all purposes of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents be made without
-58- regard to such assignee Lender's interest in the Term Loan. If any Lender sells a participating interest in the Term Loan to a participant, and such participant is the Borrower or an Affiliate of the Borrower, then such transferor Lender shall promptly notify the Agent of the sale of such participation. A transferor Lender shall have no right to vote as a Lender hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents for purposes of granting consents or waivers or for purposes of agreeing to amendments or modifications to any of the Loan Documents or for purposes of making requests to the Agent pursuant to section 9.1 hereof to the extent that such participation is beneficially owned by the Borrower or any Affiliate of the Borrower, and the determination of the Required Lenders shall for all purposes of this Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents be made without regard to the interest of such transferor Lender in the Term Loan to the extent of such participation. SECTION 15.7. MISCELLANEOUS ASSIGNMENT PROVISIONS. Any assigning Lender shall retain its rights to be indemnified pursuant to section 13 hereof with respect to any claims or actions arising prior to the date of such assignment. If any assignee Lender is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof, it shall, prior to the date on which it becomes a Lender hereunder, deliver to the Borrower and the Agent certification as to its exemption from deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes. Anything contained in this section 15 to the contrary notwithstanding, any Lender may at any time pledge all or any portion of its interest and rights under this Credit Agreement (including all or any portion of its Term Notes) to any of the twelve Federal Reserve Banks organized under section 4 of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. section 341, may at any time assign all or any portion of its interest and rights under this Credit Agreement (including all or any portion of its Term Notes) to any Lender Affiliate of such Lender (provided that such assignment to such Affiliate does not impose any additional tax liabilities on the Borrower) and with respect to any Lender that is a Fund, to any Lender or any trustee for, or any other representative of, holders of obligations owed or securities issued by such Fund as security for such obligations or securities or any institutional custodian for such Fund or for such Lender, in each case without payment to the Agent of the registration fee as provided in section 15.3 hereof. No such pledge or assignment or the enforcement thereof shall release the pledgor or assignor Lender from its obligations hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents, provide any voting rights hereunder to the secured party thereof, substitute any such secured party for such Lender as a party hereto or affect any rights or obligations of the Borrower or Agent hereunder. SECTION 15.8. ASSIGNMENT BY BORROWER. The Borrower shall not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under any of the Loan Documents without the prior written consent of each of the Lenders. SECTION 16. NOTICES, ETC. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Credit Agreement, all notices and other communications made or required by this Credit Agreement or the Term Notes shall be in writing and shall be delivered in hand, mailed by United States registered or certified first class mail, postage prepaid, sent by overnight courier, or sent by telegraph,
-59- telecopy, facsimile or telex and confirmed by delivery via courier or postal service, addressed as follows: (a) if to the Borrower, at 500 Staples Drive, Framingham, MA 01701, Attention: Mr. William Swanson, or at such other address for notice as the Borrower shall last have furnished in writing to the Person giving the notice, with a copy to Jack A. VanWoerkom, Esq., Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Staples, Inc., 500 Staples Drive, Framingham, MA 01701; (b) if to the Agent, at 100 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110, USA, Attention: Linda E. C. Alto, Director, or such other address for notice as the Agent shall last have furnished in writing to the Person giving the notice; and (c) if to any Lender, at such Lender's address set forth on SCHEDULE 1 hereto, or such other address for notice as such Lender shall have last furnished in writing to the Person giving the notice. Any such notice or demand shall be deemed to have been duly given or made and to have become effective (i) if delivered by hand, overnight courier or facsimile to a responsible officer of the party to which it is directed, at the time of the receipt thereof by such officer and (ii) if sent by registered or certified first-class mail return receipt requested, postage prepaid, on the third Business Day following the mailing thereof. SECTION 17. GOVERNING LAW. THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT AND, EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED THEREIN, EACH OF THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS ARE CONTRACTS UNDER THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS AND SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF SAID COMMONWEALTH (EXCLUDING THE LAWS APPLICABLE TO CONFLICTS OR CHOICE OF LAW). THE BORROWER AGREES THAT ANY SUIT FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS MAY BE BROUGHT IN THE COURTS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS OR ANY FEDERAL COURT SITTING IN SUCH STATE AND CONSENTS TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF SUCH COURT AND SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH SUIT BEING MADE UPON THE BORROWER BY MAIL AT THE ADDRESS SPECIFIED IN SECTION 16 HEREOF. THE BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT OR ANY SUCH COURT OR THAT SUCH SUIT IS BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT COURT. SECTION 18. HEADINGS. The captions in this Credit Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof.
-60- SECTION 19. COUNTERPARTS. This Credit Agreement and any amendment hereof may be executed in several counterparts and by each party on a separate counterpart, each of which when executed and delivered shall be an original, and all of which together shall constitute one instrument. In proving this Credit Agreement it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought. Delivery by facsimile by any of the parties hereto of an executed counterpart hereof or of any amendment or waiver hereto shall be as effective as an original executed counterpart hereof or of such amendment or waiver and shall be considered a representation that an original executed counterpart hereof or such amendment or waiver, as the case may be, will be delivered. SECTION 20. ENTIRE AGREEMENT, ETC. The Loan Documents and any other documents executed in connection herewith or therewith express the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby. Neither this Credit Agreement nor any term hereof may be changed, waived, discharged or terminated, except as provided in section 22 hereof. SECTION 21. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. The Borrower hereby waives its right to a jury trial with respect to any action or claim arising out of any dispute in connection with this Credit Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, any rights or obligations hereunder or thereunder or the performance of which rights and obligations. Except as prohibited by law, the Borrower hereby waives any right it may have to claim or recover in any litigation referred to in the preceding sentence any special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages or any damages other than, or in addition to, actual damages. The Borrower (a) certifies that no representative, agent or attorney of any Lender or the Agent has represented, expressly or otherwise, that such Lender or the Agent would not, in the event of litigation, seek to enforce the foregoing waivers and (b) acknowledges that the Agent and the Lenders have been induced to enter into this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents to which it is a party by, among other things, the waivers and certifications contained herein. SECTION 22. CONSENTS, AMENDMENTS, WAIVERS, ETC. Any consent or approval required or permitted by this Credit Agreement to be given by the Lenders may be given, and any term of this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or any other instrument related hereto or mentioned herein may be amended, and the performance or observance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any terms of this Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or such other instrument or the continuance of any Default or Event of Default may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) with, but only with, the written consent of the Borrower and the written consent of the Required Lenders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the rate of interest on the Term Notes may not
-61- be reduced or forgiven, the term of the Term Notes may not be extended, and the regularly scheduled payment date for principal or interest on the Term Notes may not be postponed or extended, in each case without the written consent of the Borrower and the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; the principal amount of the Term Loan may not be forgiven without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; this section 22 may not be changed without the written consent of the Borrower and the written consent of all of the Lenders; the definition of Required Lenders may not be amended without the written consent of all of the Lenders; the Agent may not release any guaranty for the Obligations (except as provided in section 3.13 hereof) without the written consent of all the Lenders; the amount of the Agent Fees payable for the account of the Agent, and section 11 hereof may not be amended without the written consent of the Agent. No waiver shall extend to or affect any obligation not expressly waived or impair any right consequent thereon. No course of dealing or delay or omission on the part of the Agent or any Lender in exercising any right shall operate as a waiver thereof or otherwise be prejudicial thereto. No notice to or demand upon the Borrower shall entitle the Borrower to other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances. SECTION 23. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. SECTION 23.1. CONFIDENTIALITY. Each of the Lenders and the Agent agrees, on behalf of itself and each of its affiliates, directors, officers, employees and representatives, to use reasonable precautions to keep confidential, in accordance with their customary procedures for handling confidential information of the same nature and in accordance with safe and sound banking practices, any Confidential Information supplied to it by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to this Credit Agreement, PROVIDED that nothing herein shall limit the disclosure of any such information (a) after such information shall have become public other than through a violation of this section 23 or becomes available to any of the Lenders or the Agent on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) to the extent required by statute, rule, regulation or judicial process, (c) to counsel for any of the Lenders or the Agent, (d) to bank examiners, any other regulatory authority having jurisdiction over any Lender or the Agent (to the extent required by such Lender by law or subpoena, but only to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulations, including those applying to classified materials), or to auditors or accountants (provided such auditor or accountant has agreed to be bound by this section 23), (e) to the Agent, any Lender or, any Financial Affiliate (provided such Financial Affiliate has agreed in a writing enforceable by the Borrower to be bound by this section 23), (f) in connection with any litigation to which any one or more of the Lenders, the Agent or any Financial Affiliate is a party, or in connection with the enforcement of rights or remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document, (g) to a Lender Affiliate or a Subsidiary or affiliate of any Agent who has agreed in a writing enforceable by the Borrower to be bound by this section 23, (h) to any assignee or participant (or prospective assignee or participant) or any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transactions referenced to credit or other risks or events arising under this Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document so long as such assignee, participant or counterparty, as the case
-62- may be, agrees in a writing enforceable by the Borrower to be bound by the provisions of this section 23 or (i) with the consent of the Borrower. SECTION 23.2. PRIOR NOTIFICATION. Unless specifically prohibited by applicable law or court order, each of the Lenders and the Agent shall, prior to disclosure thereof, notify the Borrower of any request for disclosure of any such non-public information by any governmental agency or representative thereof (other than any such request in connection with an examination of the financial condition of such Lender by such governmental agency) or pursuant to legal process including, without limitation, any disclosure under section 23.1(b), (d) or (f). In addition to, and without limiting the foregoing, each of the Lenders and the Agent shall permit the Borrower to intervene in any relevant proceedings to protect its interests in the non-public information and shall provide reasonable cooperation to the Borrower, at the Borrower's expense, in seeking to obtain such protection. Each of the Lenders and the Agent further agrees that if the Borrower is not successful in precluding the court or other legal body from requiring the disclosure of the non-public information, such Lender or the Agent, as the case may be, will furnish only that portion of the non-public information which it in good faith reasonably considers to be legally required and, at the request and expense of the Borrower, will exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurances that confidential treatment will be accorded the non-public information. SECTION 23.3. OTHER. In no event shall any Lender or the Agent be obligated or required to return any materials furnished to it or any Financial Affiliate by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. The obligations of each Lender under this section 23 shall supersede and replace the obligations of such Lender under any confidentiality letter in respect of this financing signed and delivered by such Lender to the Borrower prior to the date hereof and shall be binding upon any assignee of, or purchaser of any participation in, any interest in the Term Loan. SECTION 24. SEVERABILITY. The provisions of this Credit Agreement are severable and if any one clause or provision hereof shall be held invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part in any jurisdiction, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall affect only such clause or provision, or part thereof, in such jurisdiction, and shall not in any manner affect such clause or provision in any other jurisdiction, or any other clause or provision of this Credit Agreement in any jurisdiction. [SIGNATURE PAGES FOLLOW]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have duly executed this Credit Agreement as a sealed instrument as of the date first set forth above. STAPLES, INC. By: /s/ William Swanson -------------------------------- Name: William Swanson Title: Sr. VP, Finance & Treasurer
FLEET NATIONAL BANK, individually and as Agent By: /s/ Linda E. Alto --------------------------------- Name: Linda E. Alto Title: Director
CITICORP USA, INC. By: /s/ Robert A. Snell ---------------------------------- Name: Robert A. Snell Title: Vice President
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ Martha M. Winters ---------------------------------- Name: Martha M. Winters Title: Vice President
HSBC BANK USA By: /s/ Anne Sevewicz ---------------------------------- Name: Anne Sevewicz Title: Sr. Vice President
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK By: /s/ Teri Streusand ---------------------------------- Name: Teri Streusand Title: Vice President
BANK ONE, NA (Main Office Chicago) By: /s/ Vincent R. Henchek ---------------------------------- Name: Vincent R. Henchek Title: Director

Exhibit 99.1 The following is an excerpt from the private offering memorandum, dated September 25, 2002: "DESCRIPTION OF THE NOTES GENERAL The notes will be issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 30, 2002, as supplemented and amended from time to time (the "Indenture"), among Staples, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and HSBC Bank USA, New York, New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"). HSBC Bank USA is an affiliate of HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. The following summaries of certain provisions of the Indenture do not purport to be complete and are subject to, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to all of the provisions of the Indenture, which provisions of the Indenture are incorporated herein by reference. Capitalized and other terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. You may obtain a copy of the Indenture from Staples upon request. See "Where You Can Find More Information." The notes will initially be limited to $325,000,000 aggregate principal amount. See "--Further Issues". The notes will be issued only in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. The notes are unsecured obligations of Staples and rank equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Staples. The notes will mature and the principal amount, together with interest accrued and unpaid thereon, will be payable on October 1, 2012. The notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund. The notes will bear interest at the annual interest rate of 7.375% from September 30, 2002, payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on April 1, 2003. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year, comprised of twelve 30-day months. Interest is payable to the persons in whose names the notes are registered at the close of business on the fifteenth calendar day prior to the Interest Payment Date (each, a "Record Date"). -1-
If any Interest Payment Date, other than at maturity, for the notes would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day. If the maturity date for the notes falls on a day which is not a Business Day, payment of principal and interest with respect to such notes will be paid on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such date and no interest on such payment will accrue from and after such date. The notes will be guaranteed by Staples the Office Superstore, Inc., Staples the Office Superstore East, Inc., Staples Contract & Commercial, Inc., Hackensack Funding, LLC and Rochester Capital, LLC, each wholly owned subsidiaries of Staples (each a "Guarantor Subsidiary"). The Guarantor Subsidiaries also have guaranteed Staples' 7.125% Senior Notes, 5.875% Euro Notes and New Credit Facility and Receivables Agreement. Each Guarantor Subsidiary, jointly and severally, will unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the notes, all in accordance with the terms of the guarantees of the notes. A guarantee will be endorsed on each note, will be unsecured and will rank equally with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the respective Guarantor Subsidiary. The Indenture provides that a Guarantor Subsidiary may be released from its obligations under the Indenture if it ceases to be a wholly owned subsidiary of Staples, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. "Business Day" means any day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banking institutions in The City of New York are open for business and which is also a London Banking Day. Payment of interest and principal on the global notes will be made to Cede & Co., the nominee for DTC, as the registered owner of the global notes by wire transfer of immediately available funds as described in " --Book-Entry Only; Delivery and Form." The principal of and interest on the notes will be payable in U.S. dollars or in such other coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts. No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of notes, but Staples may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. The notes may be presented for registration of transfer or exchange at the office of the registrar for the notes or at any other office or agency maintained by Staples or the registrar for such purpose. Initially, the Trustee will act as registrar for the notes. INTEREST RATE ADJUSTMENT While the notes are outstanding, the interest payable on the notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time if either Moody's Investors Services, Inc. ("Moody's") or Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw Hill, Inc. ("Standard & Poor's") reduces its -2-
rating assigned to the notes below Baa2, in the case of Moody's, or below BBB-, in the case of Standard & Poor's, and in the event of subsequent upgrades or downgrades by either Moody's or Standard & Poor's, the coupon interest rate on the notes will be further adjusted. The table below illustrates the range of adjustments. The coupon interest rate on the notes will be equal to the initial coupon interest rate of 7.375% plus the sum of the applicable Moody's adjustment amount and the applicable Standard & Poor's adjustment amount (the "Applicable Adjustment Amount") set forth in the table below; provided, however, that the maximum Applicable Adjustment Amount shall be 1.25% and in no event shall the coupon interest rate payable on the notes exceed 8.625%. In no event shall the coupon interest rate payable on the notes be less than 7.375%. If either Moody's or Standard & Poor's changes the ratings on the notes, the coupon interest rate on the notes will be re-adjusted to reflect the new rating in accordance with the table below. Each interest rate adjustment required by any change in ratings, whether resulting from the action of Moody's or Standard & Poor's, will be independent of, and in addition to, any and all other adjustments and payments of Liquidated Damages. Any such interest rate adjustment will take effect for the interest rate period beginning immediately after the first interest payment date following the related downgrade or upgrade, as the case may be. There is no limit to the number of times the interest rate payable on the notes can be adjusted. For this purpose, a ratings category is the difference between the particular rating assigned by either Moody's or Standard & Poor's and the next higher or next higher or next lower rating. For example, in the case of Moody's, the difference between Baa2 and Baa3 shall constitute one rating category and, in the case of Standard & Poor's, the difference between BBB- and BB+ shall constitute one rating category. If Moody's or Standard & Poor's changes the rating categories that they currently use, then the references to those categories in this section shall refer to the appropriate successor rating categories. A rating reflects only the view of Moody's or Standard & Poor's and is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the notes. -3-
BOOK-ENTRY ONLY; DELIVERY AND FORM THE GLOBAL NOTES RULE 144A GLOBAL NOTES. Notes offered and sold to "qualified institutional buyers" in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act ("QIBs) will be issued in the form of one or more registered notes in global form, without interest coupons (collectively, the "Rule 144A Global Notes"). The Rule 144A Global Notes will be deposited on the issue date with DTC and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC. Interests in the Rule 144A Global Notes will be available for purchase only by QIBs. REGULATION S GLOBAL NOTES. Notes offered and sold in offshore transactions to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S will be issued in the form of one or more registered notes in global form, without interest coupons (collectively, the "Regulation S Global Notes"). The Regulation S Global Notes will be deposited upon issuance with, or on behalf of, a custodian for DTC in the manner described in the preceding paragraph for credit to the respective accounts of the purchaser (or to such other accounts as they may direct) at Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("Euroclear"), or Clearstream Banking, societe anonyme ("Clearstream"). Investors may hold their interests in the Regulation S Global Notes directly through Euroclear or Clearstream, if they are participants in such systems, or indirectly through organizations which are participants in such systems. Prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period (as defined below), interests in the Regulation S Global Notes may only be held through Euroclear or Clearstream (as indirect participants in DTC) unless exchanged for interests in the Rule 144A Global Notes in accordance with the transfer and certification requirements described herein. After the expiration of the Restricted Period, investors may also hold such interests through organizations other than Euroclear or Clearstream that are participants in the DTC system. Except as set forth below, the Rule 144A Global Note and the Regulation S Global Note may be transferred, in whole or in part, solely to another nominee of DTC or a successor to DTC or its nominee. All interests in the global notes, including those held through Euroclear or Clearstream, may be subject to the procedures and requirements of DTC. Those interests held through Euroclear and Clearstream may also be subject to the procedures and requirements of those systems. The notes will be subject to certain restrictions on transfer and will bear a restrictive legend as set forth under "Notice to Investors." EXCHANGES AMONG THE GLOBAL NOTES Prior to the 40th day after the later of the commencement of the offering of the notes and the closing date (such period through and including the 40th day, the "Restricted Period"), transfers by an owner of a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Note to a transferee who -4-
takes delivery of such interest through a Rule 144A Global Note will be made only in accordance with the applicable procedures of DTC and upon receipt by the trustee of a written certification from the transferor of the beneficial interest in the form provided in the Indenture to the effect that such transfer is being made to a person whom the transferor reasonably believes is a QIB within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act. This certification will no longer be required after the expiration of the Restricted Period. Exchanges of beneficial interests in one global note for interests in another global note will be subject to the applicable rules and procedures of DTC and its direct and indirect participants, including Clearstream and Euroclear. Any beneficial interest in one of the global notes that is transferred to a person who takes delivery in the form of an interest in another global note will, upon transfer, cease to be an interest in that global note and become an interest in the global note to which the beneficial interest is transferred and, accordingly, will thereafter be subject to all transfer restrictions, if any, and other procedures applicable to beneficial interests in the global note to which the beneficial interest is transferred for as long as it remains an interest in that global note. CERTAIN BOOK-ENTRY PROCEDURES FOR THE GLOBAL NOTES The descriptions of the operations and procedures of DTC, Euroclear and Clearstream set forth below are provided solely as a matter of convenience. These operations and procedures are solely within the control of the respective settlement systems and are subject to change by them from time to time. Neither we nor the initial purchasers takes any responsibility for these operations or procedures, and investors are urged to contact the relevant system or its participants directly to discuss these matters. DTC has advised us that it is (1) a limited purpose trust company organized under the laws of the State of New York, (2) a "banking organization" within the meaning of the New York Banking Law, (3) a member of the Federal Reserve System, (4) a "clearing corporation" within the meaning of the Uniform Commercial Code, as amended, and (5) a "clearing agency" registered pursuant to Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. DTC was created to hold notes for its participants and facilitates the clearance and settlement of securities transactions between participants through electronic book-entry changes to the accounts of its participants, thereby eliminating the need for physical transfer and delivery of certificates. DTC's participants include securities brokers and dealers, including the initial purchasers, banks and trust companies, clearing corporations and certain other organizations. Indirect access to DTC's system is also available to other entities such as banks, brokers, dealers and trust companies, referred to as "indirect participants," that clear through or maintain a custodial relationship with a participant, either directly or indirectly. Investors who are not participants may beneficially own notes held by or on behalf of DTC only through participants or indirect participants. Pursuant to procedures established by DTC, upon deposit of each of the global notes, DTC will credit the accounts of participants designated by the initial purchasers with an interest in the global notes. Ownership of the notes will be shown on, and the transfer of ownership -5-
thereof will be effected only through, records maintained by DTC, with respect to the interests of participants, and the records of participants and the indirect participants, with respect to the interests of persons other than participants. The laws of some jurisdictions may require that some types of purchasers of notes take physical delivery of the notes in definitive form. Accordingly, the ability to transfer interests in the notes represented by a global note to these persons may be limited. In addition, because DTC can act only on behalf of its participants, who in turn act on behalf of persons who hold interests through participants, the ability of a person having an interest in notes represented by a global note to pledge or transfer the interest to persons or entities that do not participate in DTC's system, or to otherwise take actions in respect of the interest, may be affected by the lack of a physical definitive security in respect of the interest. So long as DTC or its nominee is the registered owner of a global note, DTC or such nominee, as the case may be, will be considered the sole owner or holder of the notes represented by the global note for all purposes under the Indenture. Except as provided below, owners of beneficial interests in a global note will not be entitled to have notes represented by the global security registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of certificated notes, and will not be considered the owners or holders thereof under the Indenture for any purpose, including with respect to the giving of any direction, instruction or approval to the Trustee under the Indenture. Accordingly, each holder owning a beneficial interest in a global note must rely on the procedures of DTC and, if the holder is not a participant or an indirect participant, on the procedures of the participant through which the holder owns its interest, to exercise any rights of a holder of notes under the Indenture or the global note. We understand that under existing industry practice, in the event that we request any action of holders of notes, or a holder that is an owner of a beneficial interest in a global note desires to take any action that DTC, as the holder of such global note, is entitled to take, DTC would authorize the participants to take the action and the participants would authorize holders owning through the participants to take the action or would otherwise act upon the instruction of the holders. Neither we nor the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of notes by DTC, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records of DTC relating to the notes. Payments with respect to the principal of, and premium, if any, Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on, any notes represented by a global note registered in the name of DTC or its nominee on the applicable record date will be payable by the trustee to or at the direction of DTC or its nominee in its capacity as the registered holder of the global note representing the notes under the Indenture. Under the terms of the Indenture, we may treat, and the Trustee may treat, the persons in whose names the notes, including the global notes, are registered as the owners of the notes for the purpose of receiving payment on the notes and for any and all other purposes whatsoever. Accordingly, neither we nor the Trustee has or will have any responsibility or liability for the payment of these amounts to owners of beneficial interests in the global note, including principal, premium, if any, Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest. Payments by the -6-
participants and the indirect participants to the owners of beneficial interests in the global notes will be governed by standing instructions and customary industry practice and will be the responsibility of the participants or the indirect participants and DTC. Transfers between participants in DTC will be effected in accordance with DTC's procedures, and will be settled in same-day funds. Transfers between participants in Euroclear or Clearstream will be effected in the ordinary way in accordance with their respective rules and operating procedures. Subject to compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the notes, cross-market transfers between the participants in DTC, on the one hand, and Euroclear or Clearstream participants, on the other hand, will be effected through DTC in accordance with DTC's rules on behalf of Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, by its respective depositary; however, such cross-market transactions will require delivery of instructions to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, by the counterparty in the system in accordance with the rules and procedures and within the established deadlines (Brussels time) of the system. Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, will, if the transaction meets its settlement requirements, deliver instructions to its respective depositary to take action to effect final settlement on its behalf by delivering or receiving interests in the relevant global notes in DTC, and making or receiving payment in accordance with normal procedures for same-day funds settlement applicable to DTC. Euroclear participants and Clearstream participants may not deliver instructions directly to the depositaries for Euroclear or Clearstream. Because of time zone differences, the securities account of a Euroclear or Clearstream participant purchasing an interest in a global note from a participant in DTC will be credited, and any such crediting will be reported to the relevant Euroclear or Clearstream participant, during the settlement processing day, which must be a business day for Euroclear and Clearstream, immediately following the settlement date of DTC. Cash received in Euroclear or Clearstream as a result of the sale of an interest in a global note by or through a Euroclear or Clearstream participant to a participant in DTC will be received with value on the settlement date of DTC but will be available in the relevant Euroclear or Clearstream cash account only as of the business day for Euroclear or Clearstream following DTC's settlement date. Although DTC, Euroclear and Clearstream have agreed to the foregoing procedures to facilitate transfers of interests in the global notes among participants in DTC, Euroclear and Clearstream, they are under no obligation to perform or to continue to perform such procedures, and such procedures may be discontinued at any time. Neither we nor the Trustee will have any responsibility for the performance by DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream or their respective participants or indirect participants of their respective obligations under the rules and procedures governing their operations. -7-
ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATED NOTES If (1) we notify the Trustee in writing that DTC, Euroclear or Clearstream is no longer willing or able to act as a depositary or clearing system for the notes or DTC ceases to be registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act, (2) the depositary is closed for business for a continuous period of 14 days (other than by reason of statutory or other holiday), (3) we, at our option, notify the Trustee in writing that we elect to cause the issuance of notes in definitive form under the Indenture or (4) upon the occurrence and continuation of an event of default under the Indenture, then, upon surrender by DTC of the global notes, certificated notes will be issued to each person that DTC identifies as the beneficial owner of the notes represented by the global notes. Upon any such issuance, the Trustee is required to register the certificated notes in the name of the person or persons or the nominee of any of these persons and cause the same to be delivered to these persons. Neither we nor the Trustee shall be liable for any delay by DTC or any participant or indirect participant in identifying the beneficial owners of the related notes and each such person may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, instructions from DTC for all purposes, including with respect to the registration and delivery, and the respective principal amounts, of the notes to be issued. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION All or a portion of the notes may be redeemed at our option at any time or from time to time. The redemption price for the notes to be redeemed on any redemption date will be equal to the greater of the following amounts: o 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed on the redemption date; and o the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal, interest and Liquidated Damages (as adjusted for any announced rating change as of the date of the notice of redemption, whether or not effective) on the notes being redeemed on that redemption date (not including any portion of such payments representing interest or Liquidated Damages accrued to the redemption date) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis at the Adjusted Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 50 basis points, as determined by the Reference Treasury Dealer (as defined below), plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the interest payment date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date according to the notes and the Indenture. The redemption price will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. -8-
We will mail notice of any redemption at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each registered holder of the notes to be redeemed. Once notice of redemption is mailed, the notes called for redemption will become due and payable on the redemption date and at the applicable redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. If we elect to redeem all or a portion of the notes, that redemption will not be conditional upon receipt by the paying agent or the Trustee of monies sufficient to pay the redemption price. Unless we default in payment of the redemption price, on or after the redemption date interest will cease to accrue on the notes or portions thereof called for redemption. We will pay the redemption price, any accrued interest and Liquidated Damages once you surrender your note for redemption. If only a portion of the notes is redeemed, the Trustee will deliver to you a new note of the same series for the remaining portion without charge. "Adjusted Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such notes. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Quotations, or (B) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations, or (C) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such Quotation. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (A) J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney Inc. (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), we will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (B) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Trustee after consultation with us. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the third business day preceding such redemption date. -9-
CERTAIN COVENANTS LIMITATION ON LIENS Staples may not, and may not permit any Principal Subsidiary to, create or suffer to exist any Lien to secure any Indebtedness of Staples or any Subsidiary upon any Principal Property, or upon shares of capital stock or evidences of Indebtedness issued by any Principal Subsidiary and owned by Staples or any Principal Subsidiary (whether such Principal Property, shares or evidences of indebtedness were owned as of the date of the Indenture or thereafter acquired), without making, or causing such Principal Subsidiary to make, effective provision to secure all of the outstanding Notes by such Lien, equally and ratably with any and all other indebtedness thereby secured, so long as such Indebtedness is so secured, unless, after giving effect thereto, the sum of (A) the principal amount of all such other Indebtedness secured by all such Liens and (B) the Attributable Value of all Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date of the Indenture and otherwise prohibited as described under "--Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions" below does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of Staples. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to Indebtedness secured by Liens existing on the date of the Indenture or to: (i) Liens on any property existing at the time of the acquisition thereof; (ii) Liens on property of a corporation existing at the time such corporation is merged into, consolidated with or acquired by Staples or a Principal Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such corporation (or a division thereof) as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to Staples or a Principal Subsidiary, PROVIDED that such Lien as a result of such merger, consolidation, acquisition, sale, lease or other disposition is not extended to property owned by Staples or such Principal Subsidiary immediately prior thereto; (iii) Liens on property of a corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Principal Subsidiary; (iv) Liens securing Indebtedness of a Principal Subsidiary to Staples or to another Principal Subsidiary; (v) Liens to secure all or part of the cost of acquisition, construction, development or improvement of the underlying property, or to secure Indebtedness incurred to provide funds for any such purpose (including purchase money security interest or money mortgage on real or personal property), PROVIDED that the commitment of the creditor to extend the credit secured by any such Lien shall have been obtained not later than 24 months after the later of (a) the completion of the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such property or (b) the placing in operation of such property or of such property as so constructed, developed or improved; (vi) Liens on any property created, assumed or otherwise brought into existence in contemplation of the sale or other disposition of the underlying property, whether directly or indirectly, by way of share disposition or otherwise, PROVIDED that Staples must have disposed of such property within 180 days after the creation of such Liens and that any Indebtedness secured by such Liens shall be without recourse to Staples or any Subsidiary; (vii) Liens in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments; (viii) Liens to secure Indebtedness on any Principal Property of joint ventures which constitute Principal Subsidiaries in which Staples or a Principal Subsidiary has an interest, to the extent such Liens are on property or assets of, or equity interests in, such joint ventures and (ix) any extension, renewal, replacement or refunding of any Lien existing on the date of the -10-
Indenture or referred to in clauses (i) to (iii) or (v), provided that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby and not otherwise authorized by clauses (i) to (iii) or (v) shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness, plus any premium or fee payable in connection with any such extension, renewal, replacement or refunding, so secured at the time of such extension, renewal, replacement or refunding. LIMITATION ON SALE AND LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS Staples may not, and may not permit any Principal Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Principal Property, unless, either (i) Staples or such Principal Subsidiary would be entitled to issue, assume or guarantee Indebtedness secured by a Lien on such Principal Property without equally and ratably securing the outstanding notes as described under "--Limitation on Liens" above; (ii) Staples or such Principal Subsidiary applies, within 180 days after the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the Net Available Proceeds therefrom to (A) the acquisition of one or more Principal Properties or (B) the retirement of the notes or the repayment of other Indebtedness of Staples or a Principal Subsidiary (other than such Indebtedness owned by Staples or a Principal Subsidiary) which, in the case of such Indebtedness of Staples, is not subordinate and junior in right of payment to the prior payment of the notes or (iii) after giving effect thereto, the sum of (A) the principal amount of Indebtedness secured by all Liens incurred after the date of the Indenture and otherwise prohibited as described under "--Limitation on Liens" above and (B) the Attributable Value of all Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date of the Indenture and otherwise prohibited in accordance with this paragraph does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of Staples. The foregoing restrictions will not apply to (x) a Sale and Leaseback Transaction providing for a lease for a term, including any renewal thereof, of not more than three years, by the end of which term it is intended that the use of such Principal Property by the lessee will be discontinued; (y) a Sale and Leaseback Transaction between Staples and a Principal Subsidiary or between Principal Subsidiaries and (z) a Sale and Leaseback Transaction between Staples or a Principal Subsidiary and a joint venture in which Staples or a Principal Subsidiary has an interest. MERGER, CONSOLIDATION, SALE OR CONVEYANCE Neither Staples nor a Guarantor Subsidiary may consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its property and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person and neither Staples nor a Guarantor Subsidiary may permit any Person to merge into or consolidate with Staples or such Guarantor Subsidiary or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to Staples or such Guarantor Subsidiary unless (i) any successor or purchaser is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or trust organized under the laws of the United States of America, any State or the District of Columbia, and any such successor or purchaser expressly assumes the entity's predecessor's obligations under the notes or the guarantees, as the case may be, with the same effect as if it had been named therein, (ii) Staples or the respective Guarantor Subsidiary (as the case may be) or such successor entity, as the case may be, will not, immediately after such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer -11-
or lease, otherwise be in default in the performance of any such obligations and (iii) if, as a result of any such transaction, property or assets of Staples or any Principal Subsidiary would become subject to a Lien which would not be permitted by the limitation on Liens contained in the Indenture, Staples or the successor Person, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be necessary effectively to secure the notes issued under the Indenture equally and ratably with indebtedness secured by such Lien. Upon any such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease, such successor entity will succeed to and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of and be subject to all the obligations of, Staples or the respective Guarantor Subsidiary (as the case may be) under the Indenture and the notes or guarantees, as the case may be, with the same effect as if such successor entity had been named therein, and Staples or the respective Guarantor Subsidiary (as the case may be) shall be released from its liability as obligor under the notes, the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement (described below). In the event of any such merger or consolidation by Staples, the Guarantor Subsidiaries must reaffirm their duties under the guarantees, and in the event of any such merger, sale, transfer, consolidation, conveyance or other disposition by any Guarantor Subsidiary, each Guarantor Subsidiary or the surviving entity, as the case may be, must reaffirm the duties and covenants of such Guarantor Subsidiary under the terms of the guarantees. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS Set forth below is a summary of certain of the defined terms used under " --Certain Covenants". Reference is made to the Indenture for the full definition of all such terms, as well as any other terms used herein for which no definition is provided. "Attributable Value" in respect of any Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, as of the time of determination, the lesser of (i) the sale price of the Principal Property so leased multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the remaining portion of the base term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and the denominator of which is the base term of such lease and (ii) the total obligation (discounted to present value at the rate of interest applicable to the notes at the time of determination, compounded quarterly) of the lessee for rental payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of property taxes as well as maintenance, repairs, insurance, water rates and other items which do not constitute payments for property rights) during the remaining portion of the base term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction. "Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" of Staples means the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any indebtedness for money borrowed having a maturity of less than 12 months from the date of the most recent consolidated balance sheet of Staples but which by its terms is renewable or extendable beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the borrower) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and any other -12-
like intangibles, all as set forth on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of Staples and computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. "Indebtedness" of any Person means (without duplication), with respect to any Person, (i) every obligation of such Person for money borrowed, (ii) every obligation of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) every reimbursement obligation of such Person with respect to letters of credit, bankers' acceptances or similar facilities issued for the account of such Person and (iv) every obligation of the type referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) of another Person the payment of which such Person has guaranteed or is responsible or liable for, directly or indirectly, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise (but only, in the case of clause (iv), to the extent such Person has guaranteed or is responsible or liable for such obligations). "Lien" means, with respect to any property or assets, any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, security interest, lien, encumbrance or other security arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever on or with respect to such property or assets (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing). "Net Available Proceeds" from any Sale and Leaseback Transaction by any Person means cash or readily marketable cash equivalents received (including by way of sale or discounting of a note, installment receivable or other receivable, but excluding any other consideration received in the form of assumption by the acquiree of Indebtedness or obligations relating to the properties or assets that are the subject of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction or received in any other noncash form) therefrom by such Person, net of (i) all legal, title and recording tax expenses, commissions and other fees and expenses incurred and all Federal, state, provincial, foreign and local taxes required to be accrued as a liability as a consequence of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction; (ii) all payments made by such Person or its Subsidiaries on any Indebtedness which is secured in whole or in part by any such properties and assets in accordance with the terms of any Lien upon or with respect to any such properties and assets or which must, by the terms of such Lien, or in order to obtain a necessary consent to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction or by applicable law, be repaid out of the proceeds from such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and (iii) all distributions and other payments made to minority interest holders in Subsidiaries of such Person or joint ventures as a result of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction. "Person" means any individual, corporation, company, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Principal Property" means any real property or any permanent improvement thereon owned by Staples or any of its Subsidiaries including, without limitation, any office, store, warehouse, manufacturing facility or plant or any portion thereof, and any equipment located at or comprising a part of any such property, having a net book value, as of the date of determination, in excess of 1% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of Staples. -13-
"Principal Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary which owns any Principal Property. "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" of any Person means an arrangement with any lender or investor or to which such lender or investor is a party providing for the leasing by such Person of any Principal Property that, more than 12 months after (i) the completion of the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such Principal Property or (ii) the placing in operation of such Principal Property or of such Principal Property as so constructed, developed or improved, has been or is being sold, conveyed, transferred or otherwise disposed of by such Person to such lender or investor or to any Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender on the security of such Principal Property. The term of such arrangement, as of any date (the "measurement date"), shall end on the date of the last payment of rent or any other amount due under such arrangement on or prior to the first date after the measurement date on which such arrangement may be terminated by the lessee, at its sole option without payment of a penalty. "Subsidiary" of any Person means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more other Subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries thereof. STATUS The notes will constitute direct, unsecured, unconditional and unsubordinated obligations of Staples and will at all times rank PARI PASSU among themselves and (subject to such obligations as are mandatorily preferred by law) with all other present and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Staples. Most of Staples' business is conducted through subsidiaries. The guarantees of the notes will constitute direct, unsecured, unconditional, irrevocable and unsubordinated obligations of the Guarantor Subsidiaries that will rank PARI PASSU (subject to such other obligations as are mandatorily preferred by law and subject to the discussion below in "Fraudulent Conveyance") with all other present and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Guarantor Subsidiaries, including obligations under other guarantees of the obligations of Staples. The Guarantor Subsidiaries currently guarantee approximately $423 million of Staples' outstanding indebtedness as of August 3, 2002. Neither the Indenture nor the notes will limit other unsecured indebtedness or notes which may be incurred or issued by Staples or the Guarantor Subsidiaries. The notes will be effectively structurally subordinated to the indebtedness of the subsidiaries of Staples; however, the notes will be guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by our Guarantor Subsidiaries. Any right of Staples to receive assets of any of its subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization (and the consequent right of the holders of the notes to participate in these assets) will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors (including trade creditors), except to the extent that Staples is itself recognized as a creditor of such subsidiary, in which case the claims of Staples would still be subordinate to any security interests in the assets of such subsidiary and any indebtedness of such subsidiary senior to that held by Staples. As of August 3, 2002, there was outstanding approximately $15 million of -14-
indebtedness of Staples' subsidiaries that are not Guarantor Subsidiaries (excluding intercompany liabilities and liabilities of a type not required to be reflected as a liability on the balance sheets of such subsidiaries in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles) as to which the notes would have been effectively structurally subordinated. FRAUDULENT CONVEYANCE The guarantees may be subject to review under United States federal or state fraudulent transfer law. To the extent that a United States court were to find that (x) the guarantees were incurred by any Guarantor Subsidiary with intent to hinder, delay or defraud any present or future creditor, or a Guarantor Subsidiary contemplated insolvency with a design to prefer one or more creditors to the exclusion in whole or in part of others, or (y) any Guarantor Subsidiary did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for issuing its guarantees and any Guarantor Subsidiary (i) was insolvent, (ii) was rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantees, (iii) was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which the remaining assets of a Guarantor Subsidiary constituted unreasonably small capital to carry on its business or (iv) intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured, a court could avoid or subordinate the guarantees in favor of a Guarantor Subsidiary's creditors. If the guarantees are subordinated, payments of principal and interest on the notes generally would be subject to the prior payment in full of all indebtedness of the Guarantor Subsidiary. Among other things, a legal challenge of the guarantees on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by a Guarantor Subsidiary as a result of the issuance by Staples of the notes. The extent (if any) to which a particular Guarantor Subsidiary may be deemed to have received such benefits may depend on Staples use of the offering proceeds, including the extent (if any) to which such proceeds or benefits therefrom are contributed to the Guarantor Subsidiary. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending on the law of the applicable jurisdiction. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the sum of its debts (including contingent or unliquidated debts) is greater than all of its property at a fair valuation or if the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount that will be required to pay its probable liability under its existing debts as such debts become absolute and matured. Based upon financial and other information currently available to it, Staples presently believes that the guarantees are being incurred for proper purposes and in good faith, and that the Guarantor Subsidiaries (i) are solvent and will continue to be solvent after issuing the guarantees, (ii) will have sufficient capital for carrying on their business after such issuance and (iii) will be able to pay their debts as they mature. There can be no assurance, however, that a court would necessarily agree with these conclusions, or determine that any particular Guarantor Subsidiary received fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for issuing its guarantee. EVENTS OF DEFAULT An event of default with respect to the notes (an "Event of Default") is: (a) a default in the payment of principal of any note; (b) a default for 30 days in the payment of any interest on any note or any Liquidated Damages (as described below); (c) a default in performance of any other -15-
covenant of Staples or the Guarantor Subsidiaries in the notes, the Registration Rights Agreement or the Indenture for 90 days after written notice to Staples as provided in the Indenture or (d) certain events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of Staples or the Guarantor Subsidiaries. If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default described in subsection (d) above) shall have occurred and be continuing, the Trustee shall, at the written request of the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding notes, by notice in writing to Staples, declare the principal of all the notes to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal and any accrued interest (and Liquidated Damages) will become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in subsection (d) occurs and is continuing, the principal and any accrued interest (and Liquidated Damages) on all of the notes then outstanding shall become due and payable immediately without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. At any time after such declaration of acceleration has been made but before a judgment or decree based on acceleration, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding notes may, under certain circumstances, rescind and annul such acceleration if all Events of Default, other than the nonpayment of accelerated principal and interest (and Liquidated Damages), have been cured or waived as provided in the Indenture. No holder of notes will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or any remedy thereunder, unless such holder of notes shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default and unless also the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding notes shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as Trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding notes a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days. However, such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by a holder of a note for the enforcement of payment of the principal or interest on such note on or after the respective due dates expressed in such note. MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS The Indenture contains provisions for convening meetings of the holders of notes to consider matters affecting their interests. Modifications and amendments of the Indenture may be made, and certain past defaults by Staples may be waived, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the notes at the time outstanding. However, no such modification or amendment may, without the consent of the holder of each outstanding note affected thereby, (i) change the due date for any payment on any note, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any note or the interest rate thereon, (iii) change the coin or currency in which or the required places at which payments on the notes are to be made, (iv) permit Staples to redeem the notes if, prior to such -16-
action, Staples is not permitted to do so, (v) impair the unconditional nature of the Guarantees, (vi) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of payment in respect of a note, (vii) reduce the above-stated percentage of outstanding notes necessary to modify or amend the Indenture, (viii) reduce the percentage of aggregate principal amount of outstanding notes necessary for waiver of compliance with certain provisions of the Indenture or for waiver of certain defaults or (ix) modify the obligation of Staples to deliver information required under Rule 144A to permit resales of notes in the event Staples ceases to be subject to certain reporting requirements under the United States securities laws. The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes may waive compliance by Staples and the Guarantor Subsidiaries with certain restrictive provisions of the Indenture. The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes may waive any past default under the Indenture, except a default in the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest. TITLE Staples, the Trustee and any paying agent may treat the registered owner of a note as the absolute owner thereof (whether or not such note shall be overdue) for the purpose of making payment and for all other purposes. REPLACEMENT OF NOTES Notes that become mutilated, destroyed, stolen or lost will be replaced by Staples at the expense of the holder of such note upon delivery to the Trustee of the mutilated notes or evidence of the loss, theft or destruction thereof satisfactory to Staples and the Trustee. In the case of a lost, stolen or destroyed note, indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee and Staples may be required at the expense of the holder of such note before a replacement note will be issued. FURTHER ISSUES Staples may from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the registered holders of the notes, create and issue further notes having the same terms and conditions as the notes in all respects (or in all respects except for the payment of interest thereon accruing prior to the issue date of such further notes or except for the first payment of interest following the issue date of such further notes) and such further notes shall be consolidated and form a single series with the notes and shall have the same terms as to status or otherwise as the notes. References herein to the notes include (unless the context requires otherwise) any other notes issued as described in this paragraph and forming a single series with the notes. GOVERNING LAW The Indenture, the notes and the guarantees will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York." -17-

Exhibit 99.2 [STAPLES LOGO] Staples, Inc. Prices Senior Note Offering Framingham, Mass., September 26, 2002 - Staples, Inc. (Nasdaq: SPLS) today announced that it has agreed to sell $325 million principal amount of its 7.375 percent senior notes due 2012 through an institutional private placement, as previously announced. The closing of the offering is expected to take place on September 30, 2002. Interest on the 7.375% senior notes is payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on April 1, 2003, and the notes will be guaranteed on an unsecured and unsubordinated basis by certain of Staples' wholly owned subsidiaries. The net proceeds of the anticipated offering will be used to finance a portion of the EUR825 million purchase price of Staples' acquisition of the European mail order business of Guilbert SA, a subsidiary of Pinault Printemps Redoute, which was announced in August 2002. This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the notes. The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and outside of the United States in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the notes may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding our ability to complete this private placement and to effectively use the proceeds. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include uncertainties relating to market conditions for corporate debt securities in general and our notes in particular. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so.


