FILE:SPLS/SPLS-8K-20070702165428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
  July 2, 2007
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
Staples, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                                   
 
 
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 5.02.
        
Staples, Inc. (the "Company") has adopted revised forms of restricted stock award agreements for executives and non-employee directors under the Company's Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan.  The revised forms clarify the Company's ability to vest shares underlying the equity award to satisfy the award recipient's tax obligations triggered by the Rule of 65 Qualification Date (as defined in the restricted stock award agreement).  The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the forms of restricted stock award agreements, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01.
        
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits, which is incorporated herein by reference, are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
4

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
In consideration of services rendered to Staples, Inc., you have been awarded restricted shares of Staples' Common Stock under Staples, Inc.'s Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as follows:
 
 
By your acceptance of this Restricted Stock Award, you acknowledge that this award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of Staples, Inc.'s Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (as further amended or restated from time to time) and by the terms and conditions of Staples, Inc.'s Restricted Stock Award Agreement as attached.
You understand and agree that this Restricted Stock Award is being granted to you in exchange for your execution of a Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement in a form approved by Staples.
Staples, Inc.
Ronald L. Sargent Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Attachment:  Staples, Inc. Restricted Stock Award Agreement
 
 
STAPLES, INC. RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
1.             .  In consideration of services rendered, Staples, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Staples"), hereby awards to the Associate named in the accompanying Notice of Award of Restricted Stock (the "Notice"), pursuant to Staples' Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Total Number of Shares of Common Stock of Staples stated in the Notice (the "Shares") subject to the terms and conditions of this Restricted Stock Award Agreement and the Plan.  Except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Staples" shall include any parent and all present and future subsidiaries of Staples as defined in Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or replaced from time to time (the "Code").
Award
2.             .  Until the Vesting Date described below, the Shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of (whether by operation of law or otherwise) nor shall the Shares be subject to execution, attachment or similar process, except that the Shares may be transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, upon notice to Staples, for estate planning purposes to entities that are beneficially owned entirely by family members.  All transferees of the Shares must agree to be governed by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  Upon any sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, or any attempt to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose, of the Shares contrary to the provisions hereof, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Shares or such rights, the Shares shall, at the election of Staples, be deemed repurchased by Staples at a repurchase price of zero and all rights with respect to the Shares shall be forfeited to Staples.  In addition, Staples may seek any other legal or equitable remedies available to it, including rights of specific performance.  Staples may refuse to recognize as a shareholder of Staples any purported transferee of or holder of any rights with respect to the Shares and may retain and/or recover all dividends payable or paid with respect to such Shares.
Transferability of Shares
3.             .  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the transfer restrictions on the Shares shall lapse, and the Shares shall be considered to "vest", on the Vesting Date set forth in the Notice.
Vesting of Shares
4.
                                      
Vesting Date
.
.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4, the Shares shall not vest unless the Associate is, and has been at all times since the Date of Award set forth in the Notice, an employee of, or a consultant to, Staples (an "Eligible Associate").
(a)  Continuous Relationship with Staples Required
.  If the Associate ceases to be an Eligible Associate for any reason prior to the Vesting Date, then, except as provided in paragraph (c) and (d) below, the Shares shall be deemed repurchased by Staples at a repurchase price of zero and ownership of all right, title and interest in and to the Shares shall be forfeited and revert to Staples on the date such Associate ceases to be an Eligible Associate.  If the Associate is an employee on an approved leave of absence, then the Shares shall not be forfeited as a result of such leave of absence unless and until the Associate's employment relationship is ultimately terminated
(b)  Termination of Relationship with Staples
 If the Associate (i) dies; (ii) becomes disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code); or (iii) terminates employment on or after the Rule of 65 Qualification Date (defined below), in each case prior to the Vesting Date while he or she is an Eligible Associate, then the Shares shall vest in full.  For purposes of this Section 4(c), the "Rule of 65 Qualification Date" shall mean the first Quarterly Measurement Date (defined below) to occur on or after both (A) the Date of Award and (B) the date that the Associate has attained age 55 and the sum of the years of service (as determined by the Board of Directors of Staples) completed by the Associate plus the Associate's age is greater than or equal to 65.  For purposes of this Section 4(c), the "Quarterly Measurement Date" means the sixth Thursday following the end of each fiscal quarter.  In addition and subject to Section 11 of this Agreement, on the Eligible Associate's Rule of 65 Qualification Date, a number of unvested Shares that is sufficient to satisfy the Eligible Associate's federal, state or local income and employment tax obligations with respect to the Shares that are triggered by virtue of the Eligible Associate satisfying the conditions of the Rule of 65 Qualification Date shall vest in full, provided that Staples may only withhold a number of such vested Shares that is necessary to meet the minimum federal, state or local income and employment tax withholding requirements.
(c)  Vesting Upon Death or Disability or Retirement.
.  If (a) the Associate's relationship with Staples is terminated by Staples for "cause" (as defined below), or (b) if the Associate retires or resigns and Staples determines  within six months thereafter that the Associate's conduct prior to his or her retirement or resignation warranted a discharge for "cause," or (c) Staples determines that the Associate's conduct after termination of the employment or consulting relationship fails to comply with the terms of any non-competition, non-solicitation or confidentiality provision contained in any employment, consulting, advisory, proprietary information, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or other similar agreement between the Associate and Staples, then, without limiting any other remedy available to Staples, the Shares shall be deemed repurchased by Staples at a repurchase price of zero and ownership of all right, title and interest in and to the Shares shall be forfeited and revert to Staples as of the date of such determination; or, if the Associate at such time no longer owns such Shares, Staples shall be entitled to recover from the Associate the gross profit earned by the Associate upon the disposition (whether by sale, gift, donation or otherwise) of such Shares.
(d)  Termination for Cause
"Cause," as determined by Staples (which determination shall be conclusive), shall mean:
(i) willful failure by the Associate to substantially perform his or her duties with Staples (other than any failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness); provided, however, that Staples has given the Associate a written demand for substantial performance, which specifically identifies the areas in which the Associate's performance is substandard, and the Associate has not cured such failure within 30 days after delivery of the demand.  No act or failure to
 
act on the Associate's part will be deemed "willful" unless the Associate acted or failed to act without a good faith or reasonable belief that his or her conduct was in Staples' best interest; or
(ii) breach by the Associate of any provision of any employment, consulting, advisory, proprietary information, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or other similar agreement between the Associate and Staples, including, without limitation, the Proprietary and Confidential Information Agreement and/or the Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement; or
(iii) violation by the Associate of the Code of Ethics or an attempt by the Associate to secure any improper personal profit in connection with the business of Staples; or
(iv) failure by the Associate to devote his or her full working time to the affairs of Staples except as may be authorized in writing by Staples' CEO or other authorized Company official; or
(v) the Associate's engagement in business other than the business of Staples except as may be authorized in writing by Staples' CEO or other authorized Company official; or
(vi) the Associate's engagement in misconduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to Staples.
 Upon repurchase/forfeiture of the Shares for any reason hereunder, the Associate shall cease to have any rights or privileges as a stockholder of Staples with respect to the Shares repurchased/forfeited and such Shares shall again be available for subsequent option grants or awards under the Plan.
(e)  /
Repurchase
Forfeiture.
5.             Staples shall, upon the Date of Award, effect issuance of the Shares by registering the Shares in book entry form with Staples' transfer agent in the name of the Associate.  No certificate(s) representing all or a part of the Shares shall be issued until vesting.
Delivery of Shares
. 
6.             .  Nothing contained in the Plan or this Agreement shall be construed or deemed by any person under any circumstances to bind Staples to continue the employment or other relationship of the Associate with Staples for the period prior to or after vesting.
No Special Employment or Similar Rights
7.             .  Except as otherwise provided herein, the Associate shall have all rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares including, without limitation, any rights to receive dividends or non-cash distributions with respect to the Shares and to vote the Shares and act in respect of the Shares at any meeting of shareholders.
Rights as a Shareholder
.
8.
              
Adjustment Provisions
.   In the event of any recapitalization, reclassification of shares, combination of shares, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off or other similar change in capitalization or event or any distribution to holders of Common Stock other than an ordinary cash dividend, the Associate shall, with respect to the Shares, be entitled to the rights and benefits, and be subject to the limitations, set forth in Section 9(a) of the Plan.
(a)  General
.  Any adjustments under this Section 8 will be made by the Board of Directors, whose determination as to what adjustments, if any, will be made and the extent thereof will be final, binding and conclusive.  No fractional shares will be issued with respect to Shares on account of any such adjustments.
(b)  Board Authority to Make Adjustments
9.             .  In the event of a merger or consolidation or any share exchange transaction in which outstanding shares of Common Stock are exchanged for securities, cash or other property of any other corporation or business entity, or in the event of a liquidation of Staples, the Associate shall, with respect to this Agreement, be entitled to the rights and benefits, and be subject to the limitations, set forth in Section 9 of the Plan. 
Mergers, Consolidations, Distributions, Liquidations, Etc
.
10.
        
Vesting Following a Change in Control
.  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)  Definitions
(i)  A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (A) any "person", as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") (other than Staples, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Staples, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of Staples in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of stock of Staples), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Staples representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities (other than pursuant to a merger or consolidation described in clause (1) or (2) of subsection (C) below); (B) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of Staples (as of the date hereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Staples' stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors of
 
 
Staples, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; (C) the stockholders of Staples approve a merger or consolidation of Staples with any other corporation, and such merger or consolidation is consummated, other than (1) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of Staples outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 75% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of Staples or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Staples (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as defined above) acquires more than 30% of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities; or (D) the stockholders of Staples approve an agreement for the sale or disposition by Staples of all or substantially all of Staples' assets, and such sale or disposition is consummated.
(ii) "Surviving Corporation" shall mean (x) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to clause (A) or clause (B) of Section 10(a)(i), Staples; (y) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to clause (C) of Section 10(a)(i), the surviving or resulting corporation in such merger or consolidation; and (z) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to Clause (D) of Section 10(a)(i), the entity acquiring the majority of the assets being sold or disposed of by Staples.
. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3(a), if a Change in Control of Staples occurs, the Shares shall become vested as follows:
(b)  Effect of Change in Control
(i)  If, upon the Change in Control, the Associate
(A) is not offered employment with the Surviving Corporation (or is not allowed to continue his or her employment, if the Surviving Corporation is Staples) in a position (1) in which the title, employment duties and responsibilities, conditions of employment, and the level of compensation and benefits are at least equivalent to those in effect during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Change in Control and (2) that does not involve a relocation of the Associate's principal place of employment of more than an additional 50 miles from his or her primary residence at the time of the Change in Control, and
(B) does not accept (or continue) employment with the Surviving Corporation (regardless of position, compensation or location) (other than as a result of retirement), or
(ii) If, within one year following the date of the Change in Control, the Associate either
(A) is discharged without cause (as defined in Section 4(d)) or
(B) resigns or retires because his or her title or employment duties and responsibilities are diminished, his or her conditions of employment are adversely changed, the level of his or her compensation and benefits are reduced, or his or her principal place of employment is relocated by more than an additional 50 miles from his or her primary residence at the time of the Change in Control, then the vesting of Shares shall be accelerated such that all of Shares shall vest effective upon the date of such discharge, resignation or retirement (which shall be considered a Vesting Date hereunder).
11.           .  Staples' obligation to vest the Shares shall be subject to the Associate's satisfaction of all applicable federal, state and local income and employment tax withholding requirements.  Staples may withhold any amount as it considers necessary to meet any tax withholding requirement of the Associate.   These arrangements may include the sale of any Shares on behalf of an Associate and/or deductions from salary and/or bonus payments.
Withholding Taxes
.
12.
        
Miscellaneous
(a)  Except as provided herein, this Agreement may not be amended or otherwise modified unless evidenced in writing and signed by Staples and the Associate unless the Board of Directors determines that the amendment or modification, taking into account any related action, would not materially and adversely affect the Associate.
(b)  All notices under this Agreement shall be mailed or delivered by hand to Staples at its main office, Attn: Secretary, and to the Associate to his or her last known address on the employment records of Staples or at such other address as may be designated in writing by either of the parties to one another.
(c)  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
In consideration of services rendered to Staples, Inc., you have been awarded shares of Staples, Inc. Common Stock under Staples, Inc.'s Restricted Stock program as follows:
 
By your acceptance of this Restricted Stock Award, you acknowledge that this award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of Staples, Inc.'s Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (as further amended or restated from time to time) and by the terms and conditions of Staples, Inc.'s Restricted Stock Award Agreement  (RSBOD42004) printed on the reverse side hereof.
Staples, Inc.
Ronald L. Sargent Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
STAPLES, INC. RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
1.  .  In consideration of services rendered, Staples, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Staples"), hereby awards to the Director named on the reverse hereof, pursuant to Staples' Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Total Number of Shares of Common Stock of Staples stated on the reverse (the "Shares") subject to the terms and conditions of this Restricted Stock Award Agreement and the Plan. Except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Staples" shall include any parent and all present and future subsidiaries of Staples as defined in Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or replaced from time to time (the "Code").
Award
2. .  Until the Vesting Date described below, the Shares may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of (whether by operation of law or otherwise) nor shall the Shares be subject to execution, attachment or similar process, except that the Shares may be transferred by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, upon notice to Staples, for estate planning purposes to entities that are beneficially owned entirely by family members.   All transferees of the Shares must agree to be governed by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.  Upon any sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition, or any attempt to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose, of the Shares contrary to the provisions hereof, or upon the levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Shares or such rights, the Shares shall, at the election of Staples, be deemed repurchased by Staples at a repurchase price of zero and all rights with respect to the Shares shall be forfeited to Staples.  In addition, Staples may seek any other legal or equitable remedies available to it, including rights of specific performance.   Staples may refuse to recognize as a shareholder of Staples any purported transferee of or holder of any rights with respect to the Shares and may retain and/or recover all dividends payable or paid with respect to such Shares.
Transferability of Shares
3.  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the transfer restrictions on the Shares shall lapse, and the Shares shall be considered to "vest", on the Vesting Date set forth on the reverse hereof.
Vesting of Shares
4. 
Vesting Date
.
(a)  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4, the Shares shall not vest unless the Director is, and has been at all times since the Date of Award set forth on the reverse, a Director of Staples (an "Eligible Director").
Continuous Relationship with Staples Required
(b)  .  If the Director ceases to be an Eligible Director for any reason prior to the Vesting Date, then, except as provided in paragraph (c) below, the Shares shall be deemed repurchased by Staples at a repurchase price of zero and ownership of all right, title and interest in and to the Shares shall be forfeited and revert to Staples on the date such Director ceases to be an Eligible Director. If the Director is on an approved leave of absence, then the Shares shall not be forfeited as a result of such leave of absence unless and until the Director's position as director is ultimately terminated.
Termination of Relationship with Staples
(c)   If the Director (i) dies; (ii) becomes disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code); or (iii) ceases to be an Eligible Director on or after the Rule of 65 Qualification Date (defined below), in each case prior to the Vesting Date while he or she is an Eligible Director, then the Shares shall vest in full.  For purposes of this Section 4(c), the "Rule of 65 Qualification Date" shall mean the first Quarterly Measurement Date (defined below) to occur on or after both (A) the Date of Award and (B) the date that the Director has attained age 55 and the sum of the years of service as a director of Staples (as determined by the Board of Directors of Staples) completed by the Director plus the Director's age is greater than or equal to 65.  For purposes of this Section 4(c), the "Quarterly Measurement Date" means the sixth Thursday following the end of each fiscal quarter.  In addition and subject to Section 11 of this Agreement, on the Eligible Director's Rule of 65 Qualification Date, a number of unvested Shares that is sufficient to satisfy the Eligible Director's federal, state or local income and employment tax obligations with respect to the Shares that are triggered by virtue of the Eligible Director satisfying the conditions of the Rule of 65 Qualification Date shall vest in full.
Vesting Upon Death or Disability or Retirement.
(d)  Upon repurchase/forfeiture of the Shares for any reason hereunder, the Director shall cease to have any rights or privileges as a stockholder of Staples with respect to the Shares repurchased/forfeited and such Shares shall again be available for subsequent option grants or awards under the Plan.
/
Repurchase
Forfeiture
. 
5.  Staples shall, upon the Date of Award, effect issuance of the Shares by registering the Shares in book entry form with Staples' transfer agent in the name of the Director.   No certificate(s) representing all or a part of the Shares shall be issued until vesting.
Delivery of Shares
. 
6.  .  Nothing contained in the Plan or this Agreement shall be construed or deemed by any person under any circumstances to bind Staples to continue the relationship of the Director with Staples for the period prior to or after vesting.
No Rights to Continue as a Director
7.  .  Except as otherwise provided herein, the Director shall have all rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares including, without limitation, any rights to receive dividends or non-cash
Rights as a Shareholder
 
 
distributions with respect to the Shares and to vote the Shares and act in respect of the Shares at any meeting of shareholders.
8.  .
Adjustment Provisions
(a)  .   In the event of any recapitalization, reclassification of shares, combination of shares, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off or other similar change in capitalization or event or any distribution to holders of Common Stock other than an ordinary cash dividend, the Director shall, with respect to the Shares, be entitled to the rights and benefits, and be subject to the limitations, set forth in Section 9(a) of the Plan.
General
(b)  .  Any adjustments under this Section 8 will be made by the Board of Directors, whose determination as to what adjustments, if any, will be made and the extent thereof will be final, binding and conclusive.  No fractional shares will be issued with respect to Shares on account of any such adjustments.
Board Authority to Make Adjustments
9.  In the event of a merger or consolidation or any share exchange transaction in which outstanding shares of Common Stock are exchanged for securities, cash or other property of any other corporation or business entity, or in the event of a liquidation of Staples, the Director shall, with respect to this Agreement, be entitled to the rights and benefits, and be subject to the limitations, set forth in Section 9 of the Plan.
Mergers, Consolidations, Distributions, Liquidations, Etc
. 
10.  .
Vesting Following a Change in Control
(a)  .  For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
(i)  A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (A) any "person", as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") (other than Staples, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Staples, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of Staples in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of stock of Staples), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Staples representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities (other than pursuant to a merger  or consolidation described in clause (1) or (2) of subsection (C) below); (B) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of Staples (as of the date hereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Staples' stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors of Staples, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; (C) the stockholders of Staples approve a merger or consolidation of Staples with any other corporation, and such merger or consolidation is consummated, other than (1) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of Staples outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 75% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of Staples or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Staples (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as defined above) acquires more than 30% of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities; or (D) the stockholders of Staples approve an agreement for the sale or disposition by Staples of all or substantially all of Staples' assets, and such sale or disposition is consummated.
(ii) "Surviving Corporation" shall mean (x) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to clause (A) or clause (B) of Section 10(a)(i), Staples; (y) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to clause (C) of Section 10(a)(i), the surviving or resulting corporation in such merger or consolidation; and (z) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to Clause (D) of Section 10(a)(i), the entity acquiring the majority of the assets being sold or disposed of by Staples.
(b)  . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3, if a Change in Control of Staples occurs, the Shares shall vest fully in accordance with this Section 10(b).
Effect of Change of Control
11.  .  Staples' obligation to vest the Shares shall be subject to the Director's satisfaction of all applicable federal, state and local income tax withholding requirements.
Withholding Taxes
12.  .
Miscellaneous
(a)  Except as provided herein, this Agreement may not be amended or otherwise modified unless evidenced in writing and signed by Staples and the Director unless the Board of Directors determines that the amendment or modification, taking into account any related action, would not  materially and adversely affect the Director.
 
 
(b)  All notices under this Agreement shall be mailed or delivered by hand to Staples at its main office, Attn: Secretary, and to the Director to his/her last known address on the records of Staples or at such other address as may be designated in writing by either of the parties to one another.
(c)  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.


