FILE:SPLS/SPLS-8K-20080903170256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01  Completion of an Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On July 2, 2008, Staples, Inc. filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Initial Form 8-K") reporting its acquisition of Corporate Express N.V. ("Corporate Express").   This Amendment No. 1 to the Initial Form 8-K amends and supplements the Initial Form 8-K to include financial statements and proforma financial information required by Items 9.01(a) and 9.01(b) of Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) .
Financial statements of businesses acquired
 
                The consolidated financial statements and accountant's report required by this item are incorporated by reference from the Annual Report on Form 20-F filed by Corporate Express N.V. (File no. 1-16663) on March 14, 2008.
 
(b) 
Pro forma financial information.
 
                The required pro forma financial information is contained in Exhibit 99.3 to this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
                See Exhibit Index attached hereto which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:
 
(1)
         
Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-58743, 333-81503, and 333-124024) of Staples, Inc. and
 
(2)
         
Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-36713, 333-36715, 333-39991, 333-39993, 333-64545, 333-73383, 333-87971, 333-68428, 333-68430, 333-68432, 333-116644, and 333-128449) of Staples, Inc.
 
of our report dated March 4, 2008 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in Corporate Express N.V.'s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
Amsterdam, September 3, 2008
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
 
 
 
 
/s/ P.R. Baart RA
 
P.R. Baart RA
 
 

Exhibit 99. 3
 
 
Description of Transaction
 
In July 2008, Staples, Inc. ("Staples" or the "Company") acquired Corporate Express N.V. ("Corporate Express"), a Dutch office products distributor with operations in North America, Europe and Australia, through a tender offer for all of its outstanding capital stock.  The acquisition of Corporate Express establishes a contract business in Europe and Canada and increases Staples' contract business in the United States.  The acquisition also extends the Company's geographic reach to Australia and New Zealand.  As a result of the acquisition, the Company has operations in 27 countries.
 
At the time the tender offer was fully settled on July 23, 2008, Staples had acquired more than 99% of the outstanding capital stock of Corporate Express.  Staples intends by the end of fiscal year 2009 to acquire the remaining capital of Corporate Express by means of a compulsory acquisition procedure in accordance with the Dutch Civil Code.  In July 2008, Staples also acquired all of the outstanding 8.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due July 1, 2014 and all of the outstanding 7.875% Senior Subordinated Notes due March 1, 2015 of Corporate Express U.S. Finance Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Corporate Express.
 
The aggregate cash purchase price of 2.8 billion Euros (approximately $4.4 billion, net of cash acquired) for the capital stock and for the repayment of most of Corporate Express debt was funded primarily with the sale of notes under the Company's commercial paper program, which is backstopped by the Company's $3.0 billion credit agreement, and additional funds from the Company's $400.0 million term credit facility, its existing revolving credit facility and available cash and short-term investments.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflecting the combination of Staples and Corporate Express is provided for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the companies' results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.  The pro forma information is based on historical consolidated financial information, which has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are (i) directly attributable to the merger and (ii) factually supportable.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the impact of the consideration issued in connection with the acquisition.  Staples' cost to acquire Corporate Express has been preliminarily allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition.  This allocation is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that have not progressed to a stage where sufficient information is available to make a definitive allocation.  Therefore, the purchase price allocation adjustments are preliminary.   Changes to these adjustments could impact the depreciation, amortization and income tax adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income include certain purchase accounting adjustments, including items expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results, such as increased amortization expense on acquired intangible assets.  The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements do not reflect any nonrecurring charges, such as restructuring costs, or the realization of potential cost savings.  No assurances can be made that Staples will realize efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses sufficient to offset incremental transaction, merger-related, integration and restructuring costs over time.  Cost savings, if achieved, could result from, among other things, the
 
 
 
 
reduction of overhead expenses, changes in corporate infrastructure, consolidated purchasing, sharing of best practices, and logistics network efficiencies.
 
Staples' historical consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with US GAAP. Corporate Express' historical consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). Staples and Corporate Express management have performed an initial review of their respective accounting policies and the differences between IFRS and US GAAP and have preliminarily determined that conforming Corporate Express' policies to Staples' policies creates no significant differences that impact the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, other than as described in Note 2 in the Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 and 26 weeks ended August 2, 2008 assumes that the business combination took place on the first day of fiscal 2007.   Staples' fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to January 31.  Corporate Express' fiscal year end is on December 31.   Therefore, the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 combines the historical 52 weeks ended February 2, 2008 statement of income for Staples and the historical fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 statement of income for Corporate Express.  The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the 26 weeks ended August 2, 2008 combines the historical 26 weeks ended August 2, 2008 statement of income for Staples and the historical six months ended June 30, 2008 statement of income for Corporate Express.
 
For the purpose of preparing the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, Staples used its latest filed consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 from its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC and its consolidated financial statements for the 26 weeks ended August 2, 2008 from its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on September 3, 2008.  Corporate Express used its latest filed consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 from its Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC and its historical consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2008.
 
You should read this information in conjunction with the:
 
 
This  unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of Staples and Corporate Express contains forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance, synergies and the combined businesses of Staples and Corporate Express. Statements preceded by, followed by or that include words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "anticipate," "continue," "estimate," "project," "believe," "plan" or similar expressions are intended to identify some of the forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are included, along with this statement, for purposes of complying with the safe harbor provisions of that Act. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to, among others, the risks and uncertainties described under the heading "Risk Factors" in Staples' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 and Staples' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 2, 2008. Staples undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
In July 2008, Staples completed its acquisition of substantially all the issued and outstanding shares of Corporate Express. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared to give effect to the completed acquisition, which was accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations".
 
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price is allocated to Corporate Express' net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of July 2, 2008, the effective date of the acquisition. The table below represents a preliminary allocation of purchase price based on management's estimate of the fair values of acquired assets and assumed liabilities, as described in the introduction to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements (in thousands):
 
 
The Company is in the process of gathering information to finalize its valuation of certain assets and liabilities, primarily the determination of amounts relating to machinery and equipment, owned real estate, acquired leasehold interests and capitalized software.  The purchase price will be finalized once the Company has all the necessary information to complete its estimate, but no later than one year from the acquisition date.  Independent valuation advisors were used to assist with the estimate of the identifiable intangible asset value.  The Company has utilized net book value as its best estimate for real and personal property while it finalizes its valuation.  The impact of any depreciation resulting from this step-up is not expected to be material to any period presented.  Upon completion of the fair value assessment, Staples anticipates that the ultimate purchase price allocation may differ from the preliminary assessment outlined above. Any changes to the initial estimates of the fair value of the assets and liabilities will be allocated to residual goodwill.
 
Of the total purchase price, $865.2 million has been allocated to definite-lived intangible assets acquired. The amortization related to the amortizable intangible assets is reflected as pro forma adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income.
 
The preliminary allocation of the intangible assets included in these pro-forma financial statements is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The value assigned to Corporate Express' customer relationships was determined by discounting the estimated cash flows associated with the existing customers as of the acquisition date, taking into consideration expected attrition of the existing customer base. The estimated cash flows were based on revenues for those existing customers net of operating expenses and net contributory asset charges
 
 
associated with servicing those customers. The estimated revenues were based on revenue growth rates and customer renewal rates. Operating expenses were estimated based on the supporting infrastructure expected to sustain the assumed revenue growth rates. Net contributory asset charges were based on the estimated fair value of those assets that contribute to the generation of the estimated cash flows. A discount rate of 10% was deemed appropriate for valuing the existing customer base.
 
The acquired intangible assets related to the Corporate Express acquisition will result in the following approximate annual amortization expense (in thousands):
 
 
Note 2. Pro Forma Adjustments
 
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3. Non-recurring items
 
Certain restructuring and integration charges will be recorded subsequent to the acquisition that, under purchase accounting, may or may not be treated as part of the purchase price for Corporate Express.  Any such costs are not factually supportable at this time and therefore have not been reflected in the unaudited condensed combined financial information.
 
Non-recurring charges resulting from the acquisition that are not included in the pro forma condensed combined statement of income may include the following:  planning and consulting costs related to combining the two companies, facility closure costs, systems write-offs, retention costs, and potential asset impairments.  In addition, certain historical tax assets may be negatively impacted by the acquisition, which could result in additional tax expense that would be recognized through an increase in the Company's effective tax rate.  At this time, the Company is in the preliminary planning phase for the integration and, therefore, cannot reasonably assert that the above list is complete.  As additional knowledge is gained about the acquired business, other integration and restructuring costs may be identified.
 


