FILE:SPLS/SPLS-8K-20090324095908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
 
As previously reported, Staples, Inc. ("Staples") acquired Corporate Express N.V. ("Corporate Express"), a Dutch office products distributor with operations in North America, Europe and Australia, through a tender offer for all of its outstanding capital stock.   Staples previously filed:
 
A Form 8-K/A on September 3, 2008, which amended the Form 8-K filed on July 2, 2008, to include historical and pro forma financial information with respect to Staples and Corporate Express, including an unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 and for the six months ended August 2, 2008.
i.
                                         
A Form 8-K/A on December 2, 2008, which amended the Form 8-K/A filed on September 3, 2008, to include pro forma financial information with respect to Staples and Corporate Express, including an unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the nine months ended November 1, 2008.
ii.
                                      
 
Staples is filing this Form 8-K/A to update the pro forma financial information with respect to the acquisition of Corporate Express by providing a pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, illustrating the effects of the Corporate Express acquisition as if it had been consummated as of the beginning of the fiscal year.
 
In accordance with Rule 11-02(c)(1) of Regulation S-X of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a pro forma balance sheet has not been prepared to give effect to the acquisition of Corporate Express as of January 31, 2009, as it is reflected in the combined balance sheet presented in Staples' annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, which was filed on March 11, 2009.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(b) Pro forma financial information.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income of Staples, giving effect to the acquisition of Corporate Express for the year ended January 31, 2009, is attached as an exhibit hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
1. Description of Transaction
 
In July 2008, Staples, Inc. ("Staples" or the "Company") acquired Corporate Express N.V. ("Corporate Express"), a Dutch office products distributor with operations in North America, Europe and Australia, through a tender offer for all of its outstanding capital stock.  The acquisition of Corporate Express establishes a contract business in Europe and Canada and increases Staples contract business in the United States.  The acquisition also extends the Company's geographic reach to Australia and New Zealand.  As a result of the acquisition, the Company added operations in five countries.  The Company now has operations in 27 countries.
 
At the time the tender offer was fully settled on July 23, 2008, Staples had acquired more than 99% of the outstanding capital stock of Corporate Express.  Staples intends by the end of fiscal year 2009 to acquire the remaining capital of Corporate Express by means of a compulsory acquisition procedure in accordance with the Dutch Civil Code.  In July 2008, Staples also acquired, and subsequently paid off, all of the outstanding 8.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due July 1, 2014 and all of the outstanding 7.875% Senior Subordinated Notes due March 1, 2015 of Corporate Express U.S. Finance Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Corporate Express.
 
The aggregate cash purchase price of 2.8 billion Euros (approximately $4.4 billion, net of cash acquired) for the capital stock and for the repayment of most of Corporate Express' debt was funded primarily with the sale of notes under the Company's commercial paper program, which was backstopped by the Company's $3.0 billion April 2008 credit agreement ("2008 Agreement"); its existing $750 million revolving credit facility; additional funds from the Company's $400.0 million term credit facility, which was fully repaid in November, 2008; and available cash and short-term investments.
 
On December 29, 2008, the Company voluntarily terminated $250 million of its borrowing capacity under the 2008 Agreement, which reduced the total commitment from $3.0 billion to $2.75 billion.
 
January 15, 2009, the Company issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of notes (the "January 2009 Notes") due January 15, 2014, with a fixed interest rate of 9.75% payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year commencing on July 15, 2009.  The net proceeds of the January 2009 Notes (approximately $1.49 billion) were used to repay the entire balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility, the entire balance outstanding under the 2008 Agreement and a portion of the Company's outstanding commercial paper obligations.  On January 15, 2009, the Company further reduced its total commitment amount under the 2008 Agreement from $2.75 billion to $1.26 billion.  The reduction was made pursuant to the mandatory commitment reduction provisions of the 2008 Credit Agreement triggered by the receipt of proceeds from the offering of the January 2009 Notes.  As a result of the reduction of the 2008 Agreement, the Company's commercial paper program is now backstopped by the 2008 Agreement and the revolving credit facility.
On
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income reflecting the combination of Staples and Corporate Express is provided for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the companies' results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.  The pro forma information is based on historical consolidated financial information, which has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are (i) directly attributable to the merger and (ii) factually supportable.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income was prepared using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the historical consolidated statement of income has been adjusted to give effect to the impact of the consideration issued in connection with the acquisition.  Staples' cost to acquire Corporate Express has been preliminarily allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values as of the date of the acquisition.  This allocation is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that have not been finalized.  Therefore, the purchase price allocation adjustments are preliminary.   Changes to these adjustments could impact the depreciation, amortization and income tax adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income includes certain purchase accounting adjustments, including items expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results, such as increased amortization expense on acquired intangible assets.  The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement do not reflect any nonrecurring charges, such as restructuring costs or the realization of potential cost savings.  No assurances can be made that Staples will realize efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses sufficient to offset incremental transaction, merger-related, integration and restructuring costs over time.  Cost savings, if achieved, could result from, among other things, the reduction of overhead expenses, changes in corporate infrastructure, consolidated purchasing, sharing of best practices, and logistics network efficiencies.
 
Staples has reviewed its respective accounting policies and the differences between International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") and US GAAP and has determined that conforming Corporate Express' policies to Staples' policies creates no significant differences that impact the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 assumes that the business combination took place on the first day of fiscal 2008.   Staples' fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to January 31.  Corporate Express' fiscal year end is on December 31.   Therefore, the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 combines the historical 52 weeks ended January 31, 2009 statement of income for Staples (which includes the results of Corporate Express since its acquisition on July 2, 2008) and the historical six months ended June 30, 2008 statement of operations for Corporate Express, which represents the period Corporate Express' results were not consolidated into Staples' results (see Note 2(j) to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income).
 
For the purpose of preparing the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income, Staples used its latest filed consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 from its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 11, 2009.  Staples used Corporate Express' historical consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2008.
 
You should read this information in conjunction with the:
 
 
This unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of Staples and Corporate Express contains forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance, synergies and the combined businesses of Staples and Corporate Express. Statements preceded by, followed by or that include words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "anticipate," "continue," "estimate," "project," "believe," "plan" or similar expressions are intended to identify some of the forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are included, along with this statement, for purposes of complying with the safe harbor provisions of that Act. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to,
among others, the risks and uncertainties described under the heading "Risk Factors" in Staples' Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009.  Staples undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Note 1. Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
In July 2008, Staples completed its acquisition of substantially all the issued and outstanding shares of Corporate Express. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income has been prepared to give effect to the completed acquisition, which was accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations."
 
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price is allocated to Corporate Express' net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of July 2, 2008, the effective date of the acquisition. The table below represents a preliminary allocation of purchase price based on management's estimate of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities, as described in the introduction to this unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income (in thousands):
 
 
  Upon completion of the fair value assessment, Staples anticipates that the ultimate purchase price allocation may differ from the preliminary assessment outlined above. Any changes to the initial estimates of the fair value of the assets and liabilities will be allocated to residual goodwill.
The purchase price allocation, including an independent appraisal for certain tangible and intangible assets, has been prepared on a preliminary basis based on the information that was available to management at the time the condensed combined statement of income was prepared, and revisions to the preliminary purchase price allocation are expected as additional information becomes available. The Company has not finalized its integration and restructuring plans for Corporate Express, including severance, facility closures, systems consolidation and tax elections, the results of which will impact the final purchase price allocation. This may also include asset impairments related to Staples' historical operations as its corporate infrastructure and related assets adapt to business changes. These amounts will be recognized in the income statement as integration and restructuring costs. In addition, certain historical tax assets may be negatively impacted by the acquisition, which could result in additional tax expense that would be recognized through an increase in the Company's effective tax rate.
 
Of the total purchase price, $777.6 million has been allocated to definite-lived intangible assets acquired. The amortization related to the amortizable intangible assets is reflected as pro forma adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income.
 
The preliminary allocation of the intangible assets included in these pro-forma financial statements is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
The value assigned to Corporate Express' customer relationships was determined by discounting the estimated cash flows associated with the existing customers as of the acquisition date, taking into consideration expected attrition of the existing customer base. The estimated cash flows were based on revenues for those existing customers net of operating expenses and net contributory asset charges associated with servicing those customers. The estimated revenues were based on revenue growth rates and customer renewal rates. Operating expenses were estimated based on the supporting infrastructure expected to sustain the assumed revenue growth rates. Net contributory asset charges were based on the estimated fair value of those assets that contribute to the generation of the estimated cash flows. A discount rate of 11% was deemed appropriate for valuing the existing customer base.
 
Estimated future amortization expense associated with the intangible assets acquired from Corporate Express at January 31, 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Note 2. Pro Forma Adjustments
 
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3. Integration and Restructuring Costs
 
million charge related to the write-down of indefinite lived intangible tradenames associated with the European catalog business. The tradename write-down was the result of the Company's decision to move toward one global brand with the acquisition of Corporate Express, eliminating over time the legacy Staples brands used in the pre-existing European catalog business. Integration and restructuring costs also include a $26.3 million charge related to the write-down of software and facilities whose use was expected to be limited as a result of the acquisition, $21.7 million of consulting and travel fees and a $1.7 million charge for employee retention.
As of January 31, 2009, the Company has recognized integration and restructuring expenses of $173.5 million. These expenses are associated with the integration of Corporate Express with the Company's pre-existing business and the consolidation of certain of the Company's operations. Included in integration and restructuring costs is a $123.8
 
Other restructuring costs may also include asset impairments related to Staples' historical operations as its corporate infrastructure and related assets adapt to business changes. In addition, certain historical tax assets may be negatively impacted by the acquisition, which could result in additional tax expense that would be recognized through an increase in the Company's effective tax rate. At this time,
The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income include certain purchase accounting adjustments, including items expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results, such as increased amortization expense on acquired intangible assets.  The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement do not reflect any nonrecurring charges, such as restructuring costs or the realization of potential cost savings.  No assurances can be made that Staples will realize efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses sufficient to offset incremental transaction, merger-related, integration and restructuring costs over time.  Cost savings, if achieved, could result from, among other things, the reduction of overhead expenses, changes in corporate infrastructure, consolidated purchasing, sharing of best practices, and logistics network efficiencies.
the Company is in the midst of integration and, therefore, cannot reasonably assert that the above list is complete.  As additional knowledge is gained about the acquired business, other integration and restructuring costs may be identified.


