FILE:SPLS/SPLS-8K-20100611165334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(a)           Approval of Long Term Cash Incentive Plan
.
  On June 7, 2010, the stockholders of Staples, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Staples, Inc. Long Term Cash Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan").  Grants of performance-based cash awards under the Incentive Plan are intended to replace certain long term equity awards that have historically been granted to officers of the Company.  The Incentive Plan provides for long term cash incentives based upon a three year performance cycle.  Awards under the Incentive Plan are based on the Company's performance or the performance of its business units measured against specific performance objectives established separately for each of the three fiscal years of such performance cycle.
 
Administration
.   The Incentive Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. The Compensation Committee will have broad authority to determine target awards, select business criteria, establish performance objectives, adopt rules and regulations relating to the Incentive Plan, and make decisions and interpretations regarding the provisions of the Incentive Plan, including satisfaction of performance goals and payment of awards.
 
Target Awards
.  Each participant will have a target award established within 90 days of the beginning of the performance cycle, which will remain fixed for the balance of the performance cycle. One-third of the target award will be applied as a target amount for each of the three fiscal years within the performance cycle. Target awards will be expressed as a fixed dollar amount or a percentage of the base salary of the participant determined at the time the target award is established. The target awards will be determined by the Compensation Committee based upon the participant's job level and responsibilities and may vary for different participants and business units.
 
Performance Goals
.  Within 90 days after the beginning of each fiscal year, the Compensation Committee will establish specific performance goals for that fiscal year. The performance goals for each fiscal year will be based on one or more of the following business criteria: sales, earnings per share, return on net assets, return on equity, adjusted operating profit, free cash flow, total shareholder return, net income and customer service levels. The Committee may determine that special one-time or extraordinary gains, losses and/or events, including without limitation as a result of certain acquisitions or divestitures and changes in accounting principles, should or should not be included in determining whether such performance goals have been met.
 
Payment of Awards
.  At the end of the performance cycle, the Compensation Committee will determine the amount of the payment to be made to a participant by adding the amount earned in relation to the performance goals achieved in each of the three fiscal years and, subject to the other provisions of the Incentive Plan, pay that sum to the participant within 90 days of the end of the performance cycle after certifying the performance results.  The maximum award payable to any executive officer for any fiscal year will be $7 million.
 
This summary of the Incentive Plan is qualified by reference to the full text of the Incentive Plan, which is included as Appendix A to the Company's 2010 Proxy Statement as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 26, 2010 and is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1, which is incorporated herein by reference as though it were fully set forth herein.
 
(b)           Amendment to Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
.  
Effective June 7, 2010, the Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") was amended to reflect the adoption of the Incentive Plan.  The SERP is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(c)           Approval of Amendment to the Stock Incentive Plan
.   The Company's stockholders also approved on June 7, 2010 an amendment to Staples' Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Equity Plan") to increase the total number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under the
 
Equity Plan by 20,000,000 shares, from 77,430,000 shares to 97,430,000 shares and to amend the material terms of the performance goals of the Equity Plan.  The Equity Plan is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.07   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
On June 7, 2010, Staples held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders at which the Company's stockholders took the following actions:
 
1.
                                           
Staples' stockholders elected the following directors to its board:
 
 
There were 45,920,529  broker non-votes for each director.
 
2.             Staples' stockholders voted to approve the Staples, Inc. Long Term Cash Incentive Plan by a vote of 592,425,406 shares of common stock for, 16,234,588 shares of common stock against and 493,664 shares of common stock abstaining.  There were 45,920,529 broker non-votes on this matter.  Please see Item 5.02(a) for further information about the plan.
 
3.             Staples' stockholders voted to approve an amendment to Staples' Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan increasing the total number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under the plan by 20,000,000 shares, from 77,430,000 shares to 97,430,000 shares by a vote of 532,447,198 shares of common stock for, 76,320,494 shares of common stock against and 385,966 shares of common stock abstaining.  There were 45,920,529 broker non-votes on this matter.  Please see Item 5.02(c) for further information about the plan.
 
4.             Staples' stockholders voted to ratify the selection by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Ernst & Young LLP as Staples' independent registered public accounting firm for the current fiscal year by a vote of 649,288,499 shares of common stock for, 5,503,702 shares of common stock against and 281,986  shares of common stock abstaining.
 
5.             The shareholder proposal regarding the ability of shareholders to act by majority written consent was approved by a vote of 345,575,908 shares of common stock for, 261,883,669  shares of common stock against and 1,694,081 shares of common stock abstaining.  There were 45,920,529 broker non-votes on this matter.
 
6.             The shareholder proposal providing shareholders owning 10% of the outstanding shares with the ability to call special meetings was rejected by a vote of 227,676,339 shares of common stock for, 379,135,904 shares of common stock against and 2,341,415 shares of common stock abstaining.  There were 45,920,529 broker non-votes on this matter.
 
Item 8.01   Other Events
 
On June 7, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing its Q2 2010 dividend and the planned resumption of its share repurchase program.  The press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Staples, Inc. 2010 Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan
 
I.
                                        
Summary and Purpose
 
Staples, Inc. ("Staples") has developed this 2010 Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to provide opportunities for Participants (as defined in Section III.A. below) to earn financial rewards for their role in ensuring that Staples meets its long-term performance targets.  The Plan aims to align the interests of the Participants with those of its shareholders.  Awards are based on actual results measured against pre-established company financial objectives and other long-term performance goals.
 
The Plan is intended to provide for long-term cash incentive awards based upon a three (3) year performance cycle ("Performance Cycle") under which performance goals will be established separately for each of the three fiscal years included within such Performance Cycle.  The performance goals for each Participant will be established within the first 90 days of each fiscal year.  A target award will also be established for each Participant within the first 90 days of each Performance Cycle, and once established shall remain fixed for the balance of the Performance Cycle.  One-third of the target award will be applied as a target amount for each of the fiscal years within the Performance Cycle.  At the end of the Performance Cycle, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Staples ("Committee") will determine the amount of the payment to be made to a Participant with respect to a target award by adding the amount earned in relation to the performance goals achieved for each fiscal year and (subject to the other provisions of the Plan) paying that amount to the Participant.  A Participant may be granted more than one award under this Plan, and may be granted awards that have overlapping Performance Cycles and fiscal years.
 
II.
                                    
Term of Plan
 
The Plan will cover five fiscal years of Staples, beginning with the 2010 fiscal year (beginning January 30, 2010) and ending with the 2014 fiscal year (ending January 31, 2015).  Each such fiscal year is referred to herein as a "Plan Year."  Subject to further shareholder approval, the term of the Plan may be extended for subsequent fiscal years.
 
III.
                              
Eligibility
 
Subject to the determination by the Committee that the applicable performance goals and all other requirements of the Plan are met, the following guidelines will be used to determine an individual's eligibility for participation in the Plan and eligibility for payment of an award.
 
A.
                                   
General Eligibility Requirements
 
Any associate of Staples or of any entity that Staples directly or indirectly controls (each, an "Affiliate") will be eligible to participate in the Plan.  Each associate who has been granted an award under the Plan shall be deemed a "Participant" in this Plan.  A Participant whose employment with Staples or the Affiliate terminates prior to the end of a Performance Cycle, other than as a result of retirement, permanent disability, death, or Change in Control (as defined
 
in Section III. D. below), will be eligible to receive payment of an award under the Plan for that Performance Cycle as follows:
 
(i)
                                    
if a Participant voluntarily terminates employment with Staples or an Affiliate before the end of the Performance Cycle, then the associate will be eligible for a prorated award based on any previously completed Plan Years within the applicable Performance Cycle;
 
(ii)
                                 
If a Participant's employment with Staples or an Affiliate is terminated by Staples or an Affiliate without Cause (as defined in Section III.D.5.(iii) below) before the end of the Performance Cycle, then the associate will be eligible for a prorated award based on the number of days the associate was employed by Staples or the Affiliate during (1) the Plan Year in which the associate's employment was terminated if such termination occurs after the establishment of the performance goals and target award for the Participant for that Plan Year, and (2) any previously completed Plan Years within the applicable Performance Cycle; and
 
(iii)
                              
If a Participant's employment with Staples or an Affiliate is terminated by Staples or an Affiliate for Cause before the end of the Performance Cycle, then the associate will not be eligible to receive payment of an award under the Plan.
 
Awards granted to Participants are intended to be payable solely on account of the attainment of one or more pre-established objective performance goals as described in Sections IV and V.  Accordingly, no award made to a Participant who terminates employment with Staples or an Affiliate under the circumstances described immediately above in this Section III.A. will be paid unless the applicable performance goals were pre-established by the Committee  in accordance with Section IV.B., the Committee determines that the applicable performance goals for the Plan Years within a particular Performance Cycle were achieved, and the Committee authorizes the payment of the award as described in Section V.  Payment will be made at the time and in the manner described in Section V.
 
B.
                                   
Changes in Position
 
A Participant who changes from one position to another will be eligible for a prorated award as follows:
 
(i)
                                    
A Participant who transfers from a Plan-eligible position into a position that is not eligible for participation in this Plan is eligible for a prorated award under this Plan based on the number of days the associate was a Participant during the applicable Performance Cycle.  The associate's eligibility for a long-term incentive award for the new position, if any, will be determined in accordance with any applicable plan for that position.
 
(ii)
                                 
A Participant who changes from one Plan-eligible position to another, through a promotion, transfer or demotion, is eligible for a prorated award for each position based on the number of days the associate held such position during the Performance Cycle.
 
C.
                                   
Leaves of Absence
 
A Participant who is on a company-approved leave of absence in excess of 90 days during a Performance Cycle will not be eligible for an award for the portion of his or her leave over 90 days unless otherwise approved by the Committee.
 
D.
                                   
Retirement, Disability, Death or Change in Control
 
1.
                                     
Retirement:
  If a Participant terminates his or her employment with Staples or an Affiliate before the end of the Performance Cycle and after attaining age 55, and if at the time of such termination of employment the sum of the years of service (as determined by the Committee) completed by the associate plus the associate's age is greater than or equal to 65, then the associate will be eligible for a prorated award based on the number of days the associate was employed by Staples or the Affiliate during (1) the Plan Year in which the associate terminates employment if such termination occurs after the establishment of the performance goals and target award for the Participant for that Plan Year, and (2) any previously completed Plan Years within the applicable Performance Cycle.
 
2.
                                     
Disability:
  If a Participant's employment with Staples or an Affiliate is terminated due to permanent disability before the end of the Performance Cycle, then the associate will be eligible for a prorated award based on the number of days the associate was employed by Staples or the Affiliate during the applicable Performance Cycle.
 
Awards granted to Participants are intended to be payable solely on account of the attainment of one or more pre-established objective performance goals as described in Sections IV and V.  Accordingly, no award made to a Participant who  retires or becomes disabled under the circumstances described immediately above in this Section III.D. will be paid unless the applicable performance goals were pre-established by the Committee in accordance with Section IV.B., the Committee determines that the applicable performance goals for the Plan Years within a particular Performance Cycle were achieved, and the Committee authorizes the payment of the award as described in Section V.  Payment will be made at the time and in the manner described in Section V.
 
3.
                                     
Death:
  If a Participant's employment with Staples or an Affiliate is terminated due to death before the end of the Performance Cycle, then without regard to the amount that would have been earned by the Participant under the award based upon achievement of the performance goals, 100% of the Participant's Target Award (as defined in Section IV.C. below) for such Performance Cycle will be paid to the Participant's beneficiary (as defined in Section VII.J. below).  Payment will be made at the time and in the manner described in Section V.
 
4.
                                     
Change in Control:
  If a Change in Control of Staples occurs while a Participant is employed by Staples or an Affiliate and prior to the determination by the Committee whether payment of an award has been earned under this Plan, then the Committee shall authorize payment of each such outstanding award in an amount equal to the greater of (x) 100% of the Participant's Target Award for the Performance Cycle, or (y) the amount determined to have been earned by the Participant under the award based upon achievement of the performance goals if:
 
(i)
                                    
At the time the Change in Control is deemed to occur, the Participant:
 
(A)
                             
Is not offered employment with the Surviving Corporation (or is not allowed to continue his or her employment, if the Surviving Corporation is Staples) or an entity directly or indirectly controlled by the Surviving Corporation in a position (1) in which the title, employment duties and responsibilities, conditions of employment, and the level of compensation and benefits are at least equivalent to those in effect during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Change in Control, and (2) that does not involve a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment of more than an additional 50 miles from the Participant's primary residence at the time of the Change in Control; or
 
(B)
                               
Does not accept (or continue) employment with the Surviving Corporation or an entity directly or indirectly controlled by the Surviving Corporation (regardless of position, compensation or location) (other than as a result of retirement); or
 
(ii)
                                 
Within one year following the date of the Change in Control, the Participant either:
 
(A)
                             
Is discharged without Cause; or
 
(B)
                               
Resigns or retires because his or her title or employment duties and responsibilities are diminished, his or her conditions of employment are adversely changed, the level of his or her compensation and benefits are reduced, or his or her principal place of employment is relocated by more than an additional 50 miles from his or her primary residence at the time of the Change in Control.
 
Payment will be made at the time and in the manner described in Section V.
 
5.
                                     
Definitions:
  For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
(i)
                                    
A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (A) any "person", as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") (other than Staples, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Staples, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of Staples in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of stock of Staples), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Staples representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities (other than pursuant to a merger or consolidation described in part (1) or (2) of clause (C) below); (B) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of Staples (as of the date hereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Staples' stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors of Staples, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the Exchange  Act) shall be, for purposes of this Plan,
 
considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; (C) the stockholders of Staples approve a merger or consolidation of Staples with any other corporation, and such merger or consolidation is consummated other than (1) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of Staples outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 75% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of Staples or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Staples (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as defined above) acquires more than 30% of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities; or (D) the stockholders of Staples approve an agreement for the sale or disposition by Staples of all or substantially all of Staples' assets, and such sale or disposition is consummated.
 
(ii)
                                 
"Surviving Corporation" shall mean (x) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to clause (A) or clause (B) of the above definition of Change in Control, Staples; (y) in the case of Change in Control pursuant to clause (C) of the above definition of Change in Control, the surviving or resulting corporation in such merger or consolidation; and (z) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to Clause (D) of the above definition of Change in Control, the entity acquiring the majority of the assets being sold or disposed of by Staples.
 
(iii)
                              
"Cause," as determined by Staples or the Surviving Corporation (which determination shall be conclusive), shall mean:
 
(A)
                             
Willful failure by the Participant to substantially perform his or her duties with Staples (other than any failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness); provided, however, that Staples has given the Participant a written demand for substantial performance, which specifically identifies the areas in which the Participant's performance is substandard, and the Participant has not cured such failure within 30 days after delivery of the demand.  No act or failure to act on the Participant's part will be deemed "willful" unless the Participant acted or failed to act without a good faith or reasonable belief that his or her conduct was in Staples' best interest; or
 
(B)
                               
Breach by the Participant of any provision of any employment, consulting, advisory, proprietary information, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or other similar agreement between the Participant and Staples, including, without limitation, the Proprietary and Confidential Information Agreement and/or the Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement; or
 
(C)
                               
Violation by the Participant of the Code of Ethics; or
 
(D)
                              
The Participant's engagement in intentional deceitful act(s) that results in (1) an improper personal benefit, or (2) injury to Staples; or
 
(E)
                                
The Participant's engagement in fraud or willful misconduct (not acting in good faith or with reasonable belief that conduct was in the best interests of Staples) that significantly contributes to Staples preparing a material financial restatement, other than a
 
restatement of financial statements that became materially inaccurate because of revisions to generally accepted accounting principles; or
 
(F)
                                
Failure by the Participant to devote his or her full working time to the affairs of Staples except as may be authorized in writing by Staples' CEO or other authorized Staples official; or
 
(G)
                               
The Participant's engagement in business other than the business of Staples except as may be authorized in writing by Staples' CEO or other authorized Staples official; or
 
(H)
                              
The Participant's engagement in misconduct, which is demonstrably and materially injurious to Staples.
 
For purposes of the definition of Cause contained in Section III.D.5.(iii) and Section VI. regarding forfeiture and recovery for Misconduct, any reference therein to Staples (other than with respect to defining the Board of Directors) shall also include any entity that Staples directly or indirectly controls.
 
E.
                                     
Employment Requirement
 
Except as set forth in Section III.A. or Section III.D., a Participant must be employed by Staples or the relevant Affiliate as of the last day of the Performance Cycle in order to be eligible for payment of an award.  If the employment of a Participant terminates during a Performance Cycle for any reason other than as specified in Section III.A. or Section III.D., no award will be paid to the Participant for that Performance Cycle.
 
IV.
                               
Performance Goals
 
A.
                                   
General
 
Each award made under this Plan shall be subject to performance conditions.  It is intended that awards made to Participants who are, or who are designated by the Committee as potentially being at the end of a Performance Cycle, a "covered employee" for purposes of Internal Revenue Code ("Code") Section 162(m) will in form and in operation comply with all applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m), but the Committee reserves the right to make awards to covered employees that in form or operation do not comply with Code Section 162(m).  Any award made to an associate who is or is designated as a covered employee  and that is intended by the Committee to be tax-deductible for purposes of Code Section 162(m) shall be subject to shareholder approval of this Plan, including the business criteria set forth in Section IV.B. upon which performance goals may be established by the Committee.  The requirements of Code Section 162(m) may (but are not required to) be applied by the Committee in whole or in part to Participants who are not covered employees under Code Section 162(m), or the Committee may apply other performance goals or other conditions to awards made to Participants who are not covered employees in a manner consistent with the purposes of this Plan.
 
B.
                                   
Rules Applicable to Covered Employees
 
Within 90 days after the beginning of each of the three (3) Plan Years contained within a Performance Cycle, the Committee will establish in writing one or more objective performance goals applicable to awards for that Plan Year at a time when the outcome of those goals is substantially uncertain.  The performance goals for each Plan Year will be based on one or more of the following business criteria:  sales, earnings per share, return on net assets, return on equity, adjusted operating profit, free cash flow, total shareholder return, net income, and customer service levels.  Compensation payable to covered employees is intended to be payable solely on account of attainment of one or more of such performance goals.  The performance goals may be different for each Plan Year contained within a Performance Cycle and may vary among Participants.  Performance goals may be expressed (when applicable) in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular business criteria, or the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease of the business criteria.  Performance goals may be applied to the performance of Staples as a whole, or to the performance of an Affiliate, division, or business unit of Staples, or an individual associate, or may be applied to the performance of Staples, an Affiliate, division, business unit, or individual associate relative to a market index, a group of other companies, or a combination thereof.  In addition, customer service target levels will be based on pre-determined tests of customer service levels, including without limitation scores on blind test ("mystery") shopping, customer comment card statistics, customer relations statistics (e.g., number of customer complaints), delivery response levels or customer satisfaction surveys conducted by a third party.  The Committee may determine that special one-time or extraordinary gains, losses and/or events, including without limitation as a result of certain acquisitions or divestitures and changes in accounting principles, should or should not be included in determining whether such performance objectives have been met.
 
If more than one performance goal is established for a Plan Year, the Committee shall also set the relative weighting of the performance goals within each such Plan Year.  The performance goals and relative weighting of performance goals may vary from Plan Year to Plan Year within a Performance Cycle and among Participants.  For each performance goal of a Plan Year there must be a minimum level of performance that is required to be achieved such that if the threshold is not attained, no portion of the award will be credited to the Participant with respect to that goal for that Plan Year.  The maximum amount payable to a Participant with respect to any one Plan Year is $7 million.
 
The communication of an award need not be made within the first 90 days of the Performance Cycle as long as the Committee has taken the actions described in this Section IV and the other applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m) are satisfied.
 
C.
                                   
Target Awards
 
For each Participant for whom an award is made, the Committee will establish a target award (a "Target Award") during the first 90 days of the Performance Cycle relating to that award.  Once established, the Target Award shall remain fixed for the balance of that Performance Cycle.  Target Awards may be expressed as a fixed dollar amount or a percentage (including multiples) of the base salary of a Participant determined at the time that the Target Award is established.  The percentages or dollar amounts will be determined by the Committee
 
based on the Participant's position and responsibilities and may vary among Participants.  One-third of the Target Award shall be applied as a target amount for each Plan Year within the Performance Cycle.
 
V.
                                   
Payment Calculations and Committee Certification
 
At the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, to be paid to each Participant based on the extent that the performance goals established for the Participant for each Plan Year within the Performance Cycle were achieved and shall authorize payment by Staples to the Participant.  To determine the amount of payment for a Performance Cycle, the Committee will add the amounts earned in relation to the performance goals achieved for each Plan Year and (subject to the other provisions of the Plan, including Section III.A., Section III.D., and Section VI.) pay that sum in accordance with this Section V.  In measuring the achievement of performance goals for any Plan Year and calculating any payment at the end of a Performance Cycle, awards (unless otherwise expressly provided therein) will be linearly interpolated between the percentages set forth in the award agreement based upon actual results as determined by the Committee.  Payments shall be made in cash, including by check or electronic deposit.
 
Prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in Section III.D.5. above), the Committee may exercise its discretion in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner for similarly situated Participants to reduce (but not increase) any award otherwise payable under this Plan in accordance with objective or subjective factors if necessary or appropriate to limit the amount payable under an award to an amount consistent with the purposes of the Plan and the intended economic benefits of participation in the Plan.  The exercise of negative discretion with respect to one Participant shall not be permitted to result in an increase in the amount payable to another Participant.
 
The Committee shall certify the achievement of the performance goals in writing prior to making any payment of an award that was granted to an associate designated as a covered employee for purposes of Code Section 162(m).
 
Subject to the rules regarding forfeiture and repayment for Misconduct described in Section VI. and the rules regarding deferral of payment and amendment and termination of the Plan described in Section VII., payment of any earned award will be made in a lump sum within 90 days of the earlier of the Participant's death or the end of the Performance Cycle established for such award; provided, however, in the event that it is not administratively feasible to make payment at that time, distribution may be made at a later date within the same calendar year that includes the last day of the Performance Cycle (or the Participant's death, as the case may be) as determined in the discretion of the Committee.
 
VI.
                               
Forfeiture and Recovery for Misconduct
 
A.
                                   
Right of Recovery
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of Staples (or its authorized designee, the "Board") determines during the Recovery Period (as defined in Section VI.A. below) that a Participant has engaged in any of the conduct set forth in
 
clauses (B) through (E) of Section III.D.5.(iii), which determination shall be conclusive ("Misconduct"), the Board, subject to the limitations set forth in this Section VI., may in its sole discretion (1) terminate such Participant's participation in the Plan, or with respect to any award under the Plan, and treat any outstanding award as forfeited, (2) require forfeiture, in whole or in part, of payment of any award that has been previously approved by the Committee for payment under this Plan which remains in whole or in part unpaid, and/or (3) demand that the Participant pay to Staples in cash the amount described in Section VI.B.; provided, however, that in the event the Board determines during the Recovery Period that the Participant engaged in Misconduct as described in clause (E) of Section III.D.5.(iii) ("Restatement Misconduct"), the Board shall in all circumstances, in addition to any other recovery action taken, require forfeiture and demand repayment pursuant hereto.
 
"Recovery Period" means (1) if the Misconduct relates to Restatement Misconduct, or the Misconduct consists of acts or omissions relating to Staples' financial matters that in the discretion of the Board are reasonably unlikely to be discovered prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the Misconduct occurred and the completion of the outside audit of Staples' annual financial statements, the period during which the Participant is employed by Staples and the period ending 18 months after the Participant's last day of employment; (2) if the Misconduct relates to the breach of any agreement between the Participant and Staples, the term of the agreement and the period ending six months following the expiration of the agreement, and (3) in all other cases, the period during which the Participant is employed by Staples and the period ending six months after the Participant's last day of employment.  If during the Recovery Period the Board gives written notice to the Participant of potential Misconduct, the Recovery Period shall be extended for such reasonable time as the Board may specify is appropriate for it to make a final determination of Misconduct and seek enforcement of any of its remedies described above.  Staples' rights pursuant to this Section VI. shall terminate on the effective date of a Change in Control and no Recovery Period shall extend beyond that date except with respect to any Participant for which the Board prior to such Change in Control gave written notice to such Participant of potential Misconduct.
 
For purposes of administratively enforcing its rights under this Section VI.A., during any period for which potential Misconduct has been identified by Staples, the Board may (1) suspend such Participant's participation in the Plan, or with respect to any award under the Plan, or (2) temporarily withhold, in whole or in part, payment of any award that has been previously approved by the Board for payment under this Plan which remains in whole or in part unpaid.
 
B.
                                   
Amount of Recovery
 
With respect to Misconduct described in Sections III.D.5.(iii)(B) (breach of agreement) and Section III.D.5.(iii)(C) (violation of Code of Ethics), and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Plan, the Board may recover from the Participant the amount of any payments made to the Participant under this Plan during the last 12 months of employment with Staples.
 
With respect to Misconduct described in Section III.D.5.(iii)(D) (intentional deceitful acts), and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Plan, the Board may recover from the Participant the greater of
 
(A) the amount paid to the Participant with respect to any award made under this Plan with a Performance Cycle that includes any period during which the Misconduct occurred, or with a Performance Cycle which was directly impacted by the Misconduct, or (B) the amount determined by the Board in its sole discretion to represent the financial impact of the Misconduct upon Staples; provided, however, that such recovery amount shall be reduced by the value of any forfeited outstanding awards under this Plan (value to be determined by the target award for such awards) and any amounts recovered from the Participant under Staples' cash bonus plans and other short term or long term incentive plans as a result of such Misconduct.
 
With respect to Restatement Misconduct, and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Plan, the Board shall seek to recover the entire amount paid to the Participant with respect to any award made under this Plan with a Performance Cycle that includes any portion of a fiscal year that is the subject of an accounting restatement relating to the Misconduct (the "Restated Fiscal Year").  In the Board's discretion, it may also seek to recover the entire amount paid to the Participant with respect to any other award made under this Plan with a Performance Cycle that includes any portion of the fiscal year following the Restated Fiscal Year.
 
The term "recover" or "recovered" shall include, but shall not be limited to, any right of set-off, reduction, recoupment, off-set, forfeiture, or other attempt by Staples to withhold or claim payment of an award or any proceeds thereof.  Staples' right of forfeiture and recovery of awards shall not limit any other right or remedy available to Staples for a Participant's Misconduct, whether in law or equity, including but not limited to injunctive relief, terminating the Participant's employment with Staples, or taking other legal action against the Participant.
 
The amount that may be recovered under this Section VI. shall be determined on a gross basis without reduction for taxes paid or payable by a Participant.
 
VII.
                           
General
 
A.
                                   
Plan Administration
 
The Plan will be administered by the Committee.  The Committee will have complete discretionary authority and control with respect to the administration of the Plan, including the authority for determining Target Awards, selecting business criteria and establishing performance goals; for adopting and repealing rules and regulations relating to the Plan; and for making decisions and interpretations regarding the provisions of the Plan, including determining to what extent, if any, specific items are to be considered in the relevant business criteria or performance goals for any particular business, the satisfaction of performance goals and the payment of awards under the Plan.  The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.  All decisions by the Committee shall be made in the Committee's sole discretion, and shall be final and binding on all persons having or claiming any interest in the Plan or in any award.  The Committee may delegate ministerial duties under the Plan to one or more administrators who may be associates of Staples or an Affiliate.  Except for the administration of awards granted to covered employees, the Committee may delegate non-ministerial duties to any
 
officer of Staples or an Affiliate.  No director or associate acting pursuant to the authority delegated by the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination relating to or under the Plan made in good faith.
 
B.
                                   
Employment at Will
 
The Plan does not create an express or implied contract of employment between Staples or any Affiliate and a Participant.  Staples (and where applicable, the Affiliates) and the Participants each retain the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason.
 
C.
                                   
Amendment and Termination of Plan
 
Staples reserves the right at any time prior to actual payment of awards to amend, terminate or discontinue the Plan in whole or in part whenever it is considered necessary.
 
The Plan may be amended or terminated by either the Board of Directors of Staples or the Committee, provided that (1) subject to Section VII.F. (regarding Code Section 409A compliance), no amendment or termination of the Plan after the end of a Performance Cycle may adversely affect the rights of Participants with respect to their awards for that Performance Cycle, and (2) no amendment which would require stockholder approval under Code Section 162(m) may be effected without such stockholder approval.  For avoidance of doubt, neither the application of Section VI. regarding forfeiture and repayment for Misconduct nor the exercise of negative discretion as described in Section V. shall be deemed to be an amendment of the Plan.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section VII.C., any termination of the Plan that provides for an acceleration of the time or form of payment of an award must comply with the terms and conditions regarding plan terminations and liquidations as set forth in Code Section 409A and Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(f)(ix) which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this Section VII.C.
 
D.
                                   
Rights are Non-Assignable
 
Neither a Participant nor any beneficiary or other person shall have any right to assign the right to receive payments hereunder, in whole or in part, which payments are non-assignable and non-transferable, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
 
E.
                                     
Withholding
 
All required deductions, including without limitation with respect to federal, state or local taxes, will be withheld from the awards prior to distribution.
 
F.
                                     
Code Section 409A Compliance
 
Awards under the Plan are intended to comply with Code Section 409A, and all awards shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A and Department of Treasury regulations and other guidance issued thereunder.  Generally, this Plan is intended to comply with Code Section 409A on the basis that payment distributions are to be made upon the earlier
 
of a Participant's death or at a specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) stated in the Plan or in the relevant award at the date of deferral of compensation, without regard to other distribution events described in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A) and without application of the six month delay for specified employees described in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B).  Notwithstanding such intention, to the extent required by Code Section 409A, any reference to "permanent disability" shall be interpreted to mean "disability" as defined for purposes of Code Section 409A.  Similarly, any reference to "termination of employment," "discharge," "resignation," or "retirement" shall not be sufficient to constitute a payment event for purposes of Code Section 409A unless such event also constitutes a "separation from service" as defined by Code Section 409A.
 
If a Participant is a "specified employee" as defined in Code Section 409A (and as applied according to procedures of Staples and its Affiliates) as of the Participant's separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Plan constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Code Section 409A) that is payable upon a separation from service, then, to the extent required by Code Section 409A, no payments due under this Plan may be made until the earlier of:  (1) the first day of the seventh month following the Participant's separation from service, or (2) the Participant's date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, with interest from the scheduled payment date to the date of actual payment at an annual rate equal to the prime rate as set forth in the Eastern edition of The Wall Street Journal on the business day immediately preceding Participant's date of separation from service, on the first day of the seventh month following the Participant's separation from service.
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any award to the contrary, in the event that the Committee determines that any award may not or does not comply with Code Section 409A, the Board of Directors of Staples or the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the affected award (without Participant consent) or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.  If this Plan or an award fails to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, neither Staples nor any of its Affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on a Participant by Code Section 409A, and the Participant shall have no recourse against Staples or any of its Affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty, or interest imposed by Code Section 409A.
 
G.
                                   
Elective Deferral of Payment of Awards
 
At the time of grant of an award (or at such earlier or later time as the Committee determines appropriate in light of the provisions of Code Section 409A), the Committee may permit a Participant who is otherwise eligible to participate in a non-qualified deferred compensation plan sponsored by  Staples or an Affiliate to defer all or a part of any payment that might otherwise be payable with respect to an award under this Plan under the terms and conditions of such non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
 
H.
                                   
Mandatory Deferral of Payment of Awards
 
In addition to any deferral of payment required for payment of awards to any specified employee under Code Section 409A, if the payment of any award in any year could, in the Committee's opinion, when considered with a Participant's other compensation, result in Staples' inability to deduct any portion of such award payment because the Participant is or is expected to be a covered employee for purposes of Code Section 162(m), then to the extent permitted under Code Section 409A, the Committee in its sole discretion may defer the payment date applicable to an award until the first day of the seventh month following the Participant's termination of employment.  Any such deferral shall not be deemed to be an amendment of the Plan for purposes of Section VII.C.
 
I.
                                        
Unfunded Plan
 
It is intended that the Plan be an "unfunded" plan for federal tax purposes and that it not constitute an "employee benefit pension plan" for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA").  To the extent that the Plan is subject to ERISA, the Plan shall be administered as an unfunded employee pension plan benefiting a select group of management or highly compensated employees under the provisions of ERISA.
 
J.
                                     
Beneficiary
 
A Participant may file with the Committee a written designation of death beneficiary on such form as may be prescribed by the Committee and may, from time to time, amend or revoke such designation.  If no death beneficiary is designated or the designated beneficiary fails to survive the Participant, the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate shall be deemed to be the Participant's death beneficiary.
 
K.
                                   
Notice
 
All notices under this Plan or with respect to any award made hereunder shall be in writing and mailed or delivered by hand to Staples at its main office, Attention: Secretary, and to the Participant at his or her last known address on the employment records of Staples or at such other address as may be designated in writing by either of the parties to one another.
 
L.
                                    
Severability
 
If any provision of the Plan is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of the Plan shall not be affected but shall be applied as if the invalid or unenforceable provision had not been included in the Plan.
 
M.
                                 
Governing Law
 
The provisions of this Plan and all awards made hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to any applicable conflicts of law.
 

Exhibit 10.2
WHEREAS,
Staples, Inc. (the "Company") heretofore adopted the Staples, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Plan"), an unfunded plan maintained for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of the United States Code of Federal Regulations Section 2520.104-23 and Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"); and
 
WHEREAS,
the Company desires to amend the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code);
 
NOW, THEREFORE,
effective January 1, 2008, the Plan is amended and restated to comply with Section 409A of the Code, with the Plan being operated in good faith compliance with Code Section 409A for the period January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2007.
 
Section 1.  Purpose of Plan
 
The purpose of the Plan is to permit certain executives of the Company to elect to defer receipt of a portion of their annual compensation in supplement to their pre-tax contributions made to the Staples, Inc. Employees' 401(k) Savings Plan (the "401(k) Plan").
 
The Plan is intended to qualify as an unfunded, deferred compensation plan for a select group of management or highly compensated employees under ERISA.
 
The obligation of the Company to make payments under the Plan constitutes solely an unsecured (but legally enforceable) promise of the Company to make such payments, and no person, including any employee, shall have any lien, prior claim or other security interest in any property of the Company as a result of this Plan.  Rather, any employee participating in the Plan shall have the status of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.  It is the intention of the parties hereunder that the Plan be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA.  The Company shall be the sole owner and beneficiary of any account provided for herein below and any property used to measure such account shall remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company.
 
Section 2.  Definitions
 
2.1
                              
"Administrator"
means the Committee on Employee Benefit Plans as described in Section 15.
 
2.2
                              
"Beneficiary"
means the person or entity determined to be a Participant's beneficiary pursuant to Section 12.
 
2.3
                              
"Board"
means the board of directors of the Company.
 
2.4
                              
"Change in Control"
means a "change in ownership" of the Company, a "change in effective control" of the Company, or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code).
 
2.5
                              
"Code"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
2.6
                              
"Company"
means Staples, Inc.
 
2.7
                              
"Compensation"
means the annual compensation paid to a Participant in cash by the Company for the calendar year (after any requisite tax withholding and payroll deductions), including base pay, other regular earnings, overtime, shift differentials, commissions, any amounts deferred under a salary reduction agreement pursuant to the 401(k) Plan or under a "cafeteria plan" (within the meaning of Section 125 of the Code) maintained by the Company, but exclusive of payments from the Executive Officer Incentive Plan, the Key Management Bonus Plan, the Retail Management Bonus Plan and the Long Term Cash Incentive Plan or any other bonus payments, severance pay, expense reimbursements, awards, any moving expenses paid by the Company, car allowance, taxable fringe benefits, group term life insurance over $50,000, expatriate compensation, exercised stock options and short and long-term disability paid by a third party.
 
2.8
                              
"ERISA"
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
 
2.9
                              
"401(k) Plan"
means the Staples, Inc. Employees' 401(k) Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
 
2.10
                       
"Participant"
means an employee of the Company who is eligible to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 2.
 
2.11
                       
"Plan"
means the Staples, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.
 
2.12
                       
"Plan Year"
means the calendar year.
 
Section 3.  Eligible Employees
 
The employees eligible to participate in the Plan shall be those individuals who qualify under the criteria set forth on Schedule A and who have both attained age twenty-one (21) and completed "six (6) Months of Service" (as defined, for purposes of eligibility to participate, under the 401(k) Plan, the terms of which are incorporated herein by this reference).
 
Section 4.  Election to Defer Compensation
 
An eligible employee may begin participating in the Plan, as of the first day of the calendar quarter (October 1, January 1, April 1 or July 1, the "entry date") coinciding with or next following the date on which the eligibility requirements (set forth under Section 3) are first satisfied, by making a deferral election during the thirty (30) day period immediately preceding such entry date.  Any such deferral election shall be made in accordance with the provision of Section 409A of the Code and shall apply only to Compensation earned after the applicable entry date. In this regard, a Participant may elect to defer one percent (1%) to one hundred percent (100%) of his Compensation, less any requisite tax withholding and payroll deductions, for the balance of the Plan Year.  Any election so made shall be binding for each following Plan Year, provided that it may be revised or revoked on or before December 31 for any subsequent Plan Year, or such earlier date as the Administrator may specify.
 
A Participant may elect to defer a specified percentage (from one percent (1%) to one hundred percent (100%)) of any payments from the Executive Officer Incentive Plan, the Key Management Bonus Plan and the Retail Management Bonus Plan (which are intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 409(A) of the Code) to be paid on behalf of the Participant for a fiscal year by filing an election with the Administrator (pursuant to Section 5) on or prior to the last day of the sixth month of such fiscal year.
 
A Participant may elect to defer a specified percentage (from one percent (1%) to one hundred percent (100%)) of any payments from the Long Term Cash Incentive Plan, which are intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, to be paid on behalf of the Participant upon the conclusion of a three (3) fiscal year period, by filing an election with the Administrator (pursuant to Section 5) on or prior to the last day of the sixth month of the first fiscal year of the three (3) fiscal year period.
 
An otherwise eligible employee who fails to begin participating in the Plan as of the first possible entry date may not begin participating until the first day of any following Plan Year.
 
Section 5.  Accounts
 
Each Participant may elect to establish a separate "in-service withdrawal account" for each year of participation, such account to be established and maintained on the Company's books and shall record (a) any Compensation deferred by the Participant under the Plan which the Participant has elected to be credited into such account, and (b) the allocation of any hypothetical investment experience. There shall also be established for each Participant a separate "retirement account" which shall record (a) any Compensation deferred by the Participant, under the Plan which the Participant has not elected to be credited to the "in-service withdrawal account" and any Company contributions made on his behalf under the Plan and (b) the allocation of any hypothetical investment experience.  Each Participant's account hereunder shall be reduced by any distributions made plus any federal, state and/or local tax withholding and any social security withholding tax as may be required by law.
 
Section 6.  Manner of Election
 
Any election(s) made by a Participant pursuant to this Plan shall be made at the time(s) and in the manner as the Administrator shall from time to time prescribe.
 
Section 7.  Company Contributions
 
Each year, the Company shall contribute to the Plan on behalf of each Participant, a matching contribution equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the first four percent (4%) of the Participant's Compensation (excluding any bonuses) deferred under the Plan, and with respect to any bonus payments from the Executive Officer Incentive Plan, Key Management Bonus Plan and the Retail Management Bonus Plan deferred under the Plan for the fiscal year, a matching contribution in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the first four percent (4%) of any such bonuses deferred.
 
The Company reserves the right to make a supplemental matching contribution for any Participant at the end of the year to ensure the full matching contribution is received.
 
In addition to the matching contribution described above, for any Plan Year, the Company may elect to
allocate an additional discretionary contribution to the account of any Participant, or any group of Participants, as selected by the Board, in any amount and manner as determined by the Board.
 
Section 8.  Investment of Accounts
 
The Administrator, in its discretion, may from time to time designate one or more investment media in which the portion of a Participant's account representing his deferrals shall be hypothetically invested.  The Administrator shall provide the Participant the opportunity to determine how such portion of the Participant's account shall be deemed to be hypothetically invested from among the available investment options, and may permit changes in those investment directions at whatever frequency it deems appropriate and within whatever limitations are applicable to any investment option.  As of January 1, 2008, a Participant may also direct the hypothetical investment of the portion of his account attributable to any Company contributions made on his behalf, after September 30, 2004.  If a Participant makes an investment selection, the Administrator may follow such investment selection but shall not be legally bound to do so.
 
Any Company contributions made on behalf of a Participant beginning October 1, 2004 through December 31, 2007 were hypothetically invested in insurance contracts designated by the Administrator. Such rate of interest for each calendar year was the insurer's declared crediting rate on such insurance policies, as of December 1 of the preceding year, plus 125 basis points, with the rate being rounded to the nearest one tenth of a percent.
 
The portion, if any, of a Participant's account derived from Company matching contributions made prior to October 1, 2004 shall be credited with gains and losses as if it had been invested in Staples, Inc. common stock, provided however, that a Participant shall have the same investment diversification rights (except with respect to the available investment options), as exist under the 401(k) Plan.
 
Beginning with the Plan Year 2011, the portion of any Participant's account that is hypothetically invested in an insurance contract's fixed account shall be credited with a rate of interest announced by the Administrator at the beginning of the Plan Year.  The Administrator shall choose the rate that is the higher of (1) the insurance carrier's fixed account crediting rate at the beginning of the Plan Year; or (2) the Internal Revenue Service's mid-term Applicable Federal Rate (AFR) for January 1 of the Plan Year, compounded annually.
 
Section 9.  Vested Status of a Participant's Account
 
A Participant shall at all times have a nonforfeitable ("vested") right to the fair market value of any in-service withdrawal account(s) established under Section 5.
 
Subject to the following provisions of this Section, if a Participant separates from service with the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) for any reason on or after his Normal Retirement Age (within the meaning of the 401(k) Plan), or prior to that date as a result of the Participant's "disability", or as a result of the Participant's death, such Participant shall have a nonforfeitable (vested) right to the fair market value of the Participant's retirement account.  For this purpose, a Participant shall be considered "disabled" if he is determined to be "permanently and totally disabled" by the Social Security Administration.
 
Except as otherwise provided herein below, if a Participant separates from service with the Company for any other reason other than Normal Retirement, death, or disability, such Participant shall be entitled to receive the vested value of his retirement account.  For this purpose, each Participant shall at all times have a nonforfeitable (vested) right to his retirement account derived from any Compensation deferred
pursuant to Section 4.  However, with respect to any Company matching contributions made on the Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 7, the Participant shall have a nonforfeitable (vested) right to a percentage of the fair market value of such portion of his retirement account as follows:
 
 
For this purpose, a Participant shall be credited with Year(s) of Service in accordance with the terms of the 401(k) Plan as then in effect (as it pertains to vesting purposes).  Provided, however, that any member of the Company's board of directors who is not an employee of the Company, who subsequently becomes an eligible employee and then a Participant, shall be credited with any prior service as a director in determining said Participant's Year(s) of Service.
 
With respect to any additional discretionary contributions made on the Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 7, the Participant shall have a nonforfeitable (vested) right to a percentage of the fair market value of such portion of his retirement account in accordance with the vesting schedule established by the Administrator at the time such additional discretionary contribution is made by the Company.
 
The nonvested portion of a Participant's retirement account, as determined above, shall be forfeited as of the Participant's separation from service.  If any contributions have been made to a trust with respect to such account, the forfeited portion shall remain in such trust and be used to fund future contributions by the Company and/or used to pay Plan administrative expenses
 
Section 10.  Payment of a Participant's Account
 
Each Participant may also elect, on the election form used to make his or her initial deferral election hereunder, or through such other method acceptable to the Administrator, either of the following modes of distribution for his retirement account:
 
(a)
         
a single lump sum payment; or
 
(b)
        
annual installments over a period of up to fifteen (15) years, the amount of each installment to equal the balance of the Participant's vested retirement account as of the date of the distribution divided by the number of installments remaining to be paid.  Each subsequent installment shall be made in the calendar month containing the one (1) year anniversary of the prior payment.   Such installment election however, shall be given effect only if the Participant separates from service after having both attained age fifty-five (55) and completed five (5) years of service (as measured from date of hire and each anniversary date, without regard to hours).
 
If a Participant does not otherwise have a valid distribution election on file, or if the balance of the Participant's retirement account does not exceed the amount in effect for the applicable year under Code
 
Section 402(g)(1)(B) as of the date of the Participant's separation from service, the Participant's vested retirement account shall be distributed in a lump sum payment.
 
Any Participant, who on or before December 31, 2003 elected annual cash installments over a period not exceeding five (5) years, shall retain the right to have his vested retirement account distributed in the manner so elected, without regard to age or service.
 
Upon a Participant's separation from service with the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code), distribution of the Participant's vested retirement account shall normally be made or commence in the calendar month following the month in which the separation from service occurs; provided, however, that, to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, in the event that it is not administratively feasible to have payment made at that time, distribution can be made at a later date within the same calendar year; and provided further that, if the Company is subject to the provisions of Section 409A(2)(B)(i) of the Code, and if the Participant is a "specified employee" of the Company (as determined under said Section 409A), distribution shall be made or commence in the seventh (7
th
) calendar month following the month in which the separation from service occurs; provided, however, that, to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, in the event that it is not administratively feasible to have payment made at that time, distribution can be made at a later date within the same calendar year. For purposes of identifying a "specified employee," the definition of compensation under Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(2) of the Income Tax Regulations shall apply, the specified employee identification date shall be December 31, and the specified employee effective date shall be the first day of the fourth month following such identification date.
 
Subject to the following provisions of this Section, a Participant may elect to change the mode of distribution for his retirement account, subject to the following conditions: (i) any such election may not take effect until twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made; and (ii) the payment with respect to such election must be deferred for a period of at least five (5) years from the date on which payment would otherwise have been made or commenced; and (iii) in the event of an installment election, the election shall be given effect only if the Participant separates from service after having both attained age fifty-five (55) and completed five (5) years of service (as measured from the Participant's date of hire and each anniversary date, without regard to hours).
 
Subject to the following provisions of this Section, any "in-service" withdrawal account(s) established for a Participant under Section 5 shall be distributed in a lump sum payment on the date designated by the Participant as part of his annual deferral election with respect to which the in-service withdrawal account was established under the Plan, which date may not be earlier than five years following the year of the deferral election. However, a Participant may elect to extend any in-service withdrawal date for a period of not less than 5 years; provided such election was made at least 12 months prior to the date on which the payment would otherwise have been made.
 
Provided, however, that a Participant shall be permitted to make withdrawal and/or distribution elections in 2006 and 2007 subject to the provisions of IRS Notice 2006-79 and withdrawal and/or distribution elections in 2008 subject to the provisions of IRS Notice 2007-86 or any subsequent guidance.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, if distribution of a Participant's vested retirement account is to be made or commence prior to the selected distribution date of any in-service withdrawal account, any remaining in-service withdrawal account(s) shall be distributed at the same time and in the same manner as the Participant's retirement account.
Section 11.  Death Benefit
 
In the event of the death of a Participant while in the employ of the Company or any "affiliate" thereof, vesting in the Participant's retirement account shall be one hundred percent (100%), if not otherwise one hundred percent (100%) vested under Section 9, with the fair market value of the Participant's retirement account, (and any outstanding in-service withdrawal account(s)), being distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary in a lump-sum cash payment. In the event of the death of a Participant after termination of employment, but prior to the complete distribution of his vested account under the Plan, the balance of the Participant's vested retirement account (and any remaining in-service withdrawal account(s)) shall be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary in a lump-sum payment.
 
Any such lump sum death benefit shall be distributed in the calendar month following the calendar month of the Participants death; provided, however, that, to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, in the event that it is not administratively feasible to have payment made at that time, distribution can be made at a later date within the same calendar year.
 
Section 12.  Beneficiary Designation
 
A Participant's Beneficiary hereunder shall be the same person or persons designated by the Participant under the 401(k) Plan unless a separate Beneficiary designation has been established under the Plan in the manner prescribed by the Administrator.
 
In the absence of any such designation, or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, any amounts payable following the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's surviving spouse, or if none, to the Participant's estate.
 
Section 13.  Domestic Relations Orders
 
If a domestic relations order issued by any court of proper authority directs assignment of all or any portion of a Participant's vested account(s) to the Participant's spouse or former spouse as part of a divorce settlement, the portion so assigned shall be distributed, in a lump-sum, to the spouse or former spouse within ninety (90) days following the close of the Plan Year in which the order was received by the Administrator or, if later, following the close of the Plan Year in which the order clearly specifies the amount to be assigned and any other terms necessary to comply with such order and with the provisions of Code Section 409A.
 
Section 14.  Distribution in the event of Unforeseeable Emergency
 
In the event of an "unforeseeable emergency" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code), a Participant may, by filing a written election with the Administrator, elect to receive a distribution from the Plan in an amount not to exceed the lesser of (i) the fair market value of the Participant's vested retirement account or (ii) the amount necessary to satisfy the unforeseeable emergency, subject to ordinary income tax withholding.
 
Section 15.  Administration
 
The Committee on Employee Benefit Plans, as constituted pursuant to the terms of the 401(k) Plan (the "Administrator"), shall have the general authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan.  In connection herewith, the Administrator shall also have the following powers and duties:  (1) to adopt rules and regulations necessary for the performance of its duties under the Plan; (2) to construe the Plan and to decide all questions arising under the Plan; (3) to act for the Company in connection with any administrative or judicial proceeding affecting the Plan; (4) to employ, subject to the requirements of the financial officers of the Company, persons to render accounting, actuarial, legal,
 
investment or insurance advice and to rely on such advice; (5) to determine the eligibility of Participants to receive benefits and the amount of benefits to which any Participant or Beneficiary may be entitled under the Plan and to enforce the claims procedure set forth in Section 16; and (6) such other responsibilities as are provided for under the terms of this Plan.
 
In connection with the administration of the Plan, any two of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Secretary or Executive Vice President  Human Resources of Staples, Inc., acting jointly, by and on behalf of the Company, are hereby authorized:
 
(1)
                           
to negotiate, fix and vary the terms of, and to execute and deliver, contracts, agreements, indentures, trusts, assignments, concessions, licenses, options, and all other similar instruments;
 
(2)
                           
to appoint trustees and to engage any agents or contractors, including banks, insurance brokers, and attorneys;
 
(3)
                           
to amend or terminate the Plan;
 
(4)
                           
to otherwise do all acts and things necessary or suitable in connection with the exercise of any of the aforementioned powers;
 
provided, however, that no such authorization shall extend to any implementation, amendment, approval, or modification of the Plan which is reserved to the Board or stockholders of the Company by the Plan, statute, rule or regulation, including without limitation, rules promulgated under Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Section 16.  Claims Procedure
 
(a)
                           
Application for Benefits.  The Administrator shall furnish to each Participant information about the benefits to which he or she is entitled under the Plan.  The Administrator may require any person claiming benefits under the Plan to submit a written application, together with such documents, evidence, and information as it considers necessary to process the claim.
 
(b)
                          
Action on Application.  Within ninety (90) days after receipt of an application and all necessary documents and information, the Administrator shall furnish the claimant with a written notice of its decision.  If the Administrator denies the claim in whole or in part, the notice will set forth (1) specific reasons for the denial, with specific reference to Plan provisions upon which the denial is based; (2) a description of any additional information or material necessary to process the application with an explanation why such material or information is necessary; and (3) an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure.
 
If special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, the Administrator shall furnish the claimant written notice of the extension before the end of the initial ninety (90)-day period.  In no event shall the extension exceed a period of ninety (90) days from the end of the initial period.  The notice shall explain the circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Administrator expects to render a decision.
 
(c)
                           
Claim Review.  The claimant who does not agree with the decision rendered on his application may request that the Administrator review the decision.  The request must be made within sixty (60) days after the claimant receives the decision, or if the application has neither been approved nor denied within the ninety (90)-day period specified in subsection (b), then the request must be made within sixty (60) days after expiration of the ninety (90)-day period.
Each request for review must be in writing and addressed to the Administrator.  Concurrently with filing the request for review, or within the sixty (60) days request period, the claimant may submit in writing to the Administrator a statement of the issues raised by his appeal and supporting arguments and comments.
 
During the pendency of his appeal, the claimant may inspect all documents which are reasonably pertinent to his case, upon reasonable notice to the Administrator.  However, under no circumstance shall the Administrator be required to disclose to any claimant information concerning any person other than the Participant whose benefit is being claimed, to the extent such information is normally treated as confidential.
 
Where the Administrator believes that the issues raised by the claimant's appeal may be more efficiently or fairly processed by taking testimony of the claimant or others, it shall set the matter for oral hearing and give the claimant reasonable notice of the time and place.  Whether or not an oral hearing is scheduled, the Administrator shall proceed promptly to resolve all issues raised by the claimant's appeal and shall render a written decision on the merits, with a statement of the reasons and references to the pertinent supporting provisions of the Plan, within sixty (60) days following receipt of the claimant's request for review.
 
If special circumstances require an extension of time, the Administrator shall render a decision as soon as possible, but not later than one hundred and twenty (120) days after receipt of the request for review.  If an extension is required, the Administrator shall furnish to the claimant written notice of the extension, including an explanation of the circumstances requiring the extension, before the extension period begins.
 
Section 17.  Securing Payment of Plan Benefits
 
The Plan shall be operated at all times as an unfunded plan as required under ERISA.  However, the Company reserves the right to take reasonable steps to secure the payment of Plan benefits to the greatest extent possible without compromising the unfunded status of the Plan.  Those steps may include, but is not limited to, the establishment of an irrevocable nonqualified grantor trust (within the meaning of subpart E, part I, subchapter J, chapter 1, subtitle A of the Code).
 
Section 18.  Amendment
 
The Company, by resolution of the Board, shall have the right to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time subject to the provisions of Section 409A of the Code; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of Section 15, any two of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Secretary or Executive Vice President  Human Resources of Staples, Inc., acting jointly, by and on behalf of the Company shall have such right. Provided however, that any termination of the Plan, with respect to some or all of the Participants, and any resulting distribution of the account balances of such affected Participants, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and shall not constitute the impairment of such Participant's rights hereunder.
 
Section 19.  No Liability
 
No member of the Board or of the committee serving as the Administrator, and no officer or employee of the Company shall be liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the administration of the Plan unless attributable to his own fraud or willful misconduct; nor shall the Company be liable to any person for any such action unless attributable to fraud or willful misconduct on the part of the Administrator or a director, officer or employee of the Company.
 
Section 20.  No Assignment
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, a Participant's right to the amount credited to his or her account(s) under the Plan shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary.  Provided, however, that the Company shall have the unrestricted right to set off against or recover out of any payments or benefits becoming payable to or for the benefit of a Participant, at the time such payments or benefits otherwise become payable hereunder, any amounts owed or owing to the Company by such Participant.
 
Section 21.  Successors and Assigns
 
The provisions of this Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, and the Participant, his beneficiaries, heirs, legal representatives and assigns.
 
Section 22.  No Contract of Employment
 
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a contract of employment between a Participant and the Company, or as a right of the Participant to continue in employment with the Company, or as a limitation of the right of the Company to discharge the Participant at any time, with or without cause.
 
Section 23.  Termination of Plan Upon Change in Control
 
The Company may elect to terminate the Plan within thirty (30) days preceding or the twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, subject to the provisions of Section 409A of the Code).  For this purpose, the Plan shall be treated as terminated only if substantially similar arrangements sponsored by the Company are terminated, so that all Participants in the Plan and all participants under substantially similar arrangements are required to receive all amounts deferred under the terminated arrangements within twelve (12) months of the date of termination of the arrangements.
 
Section 24.  Governing Law
 
This Plan shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 409A and the guidance issued thereunder by the Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service and shall also be subject to and construed in accordance with the provisions of ERISA, where applicable, and otherwise by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to the conflict of law provisions of any jurisdiction.
SCHEDULE A
 
Any employee at Grade Level of 41 and above, except as otherwise specified by the Board.  However, as of September 1, 2009, any participating employee or any employee who at the time of a grade level change to an ineligible grade is participating in the Plan shall remain an eligible participant until such time as they terminate employment with the Company.

Exhibit 10.3
 
1.
                                                   
Purpose
 
The purpose of this Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") of Staples, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), is to advance the interests of the Company's stockholders by enhancing the Company's ability to attract, retain and motivate persons who make (or are expected to make) important contributions to the Company by providing such persons with equity ownership opportunities and performance-based incentives and thereby better aligning the interests of such persons with those of the Company's stockholders. Except where the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" shall include any of the Company's present or future parent or subsidiary corporations as defined in Sections 424(e) or (f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Code"), and any other business venture (including, without limitation, joint venture or limited liability company) in which the Company has a controlling interest, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board").
 
2.
                                                   
Eligibility
 
All of the Company's employees, officers, directors, consultants, advisors, and other service providers (including persons who have entered into an agreement with the Company under which they will be employed by the Company in the future) are eligible to be granted options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based awards (each, an "Award") under the Plan. Each person who has been granted an Award under the Plan shall be deemed a "Participant".
 
3.
                                                   
Administration and Delegation
 
(a)
                                 
Administration by Board of Directors.
The Plan will be administered by the Board. The Board shall have authority to grant Awards and to adopt, amend and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices relating to the Plan as it shall deem advisable. The Board may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. All decisions by the Board shall be made in the Board's sole discretion and shall be final and binding on all persons having or claiming any interest in the Plan or in any Award. No director or person acting pursuant to the authority delegated by the Board shall be liable for any action or determination relating to or under the Plan made in good faith.
 
(b)
                                
Appointment of Committees.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board may delegate any or all of its powers under the Plan to one or more committees or subcommittees of the Board (a "Committee"). Unless otherwise determined by the Board, if a Committee is authorized to grant Awards to a Covered Employee (as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code), such Committee shall be comprised solely of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. All references in the Plan to the "Board" shall mean the Board or a Committee of the Board or the officers referred to in Section 3(c) to the extent that the Board's powers or authority under the Plan have been delegated to such Committee or officers.
 
(c)
                                 
Delegation to Officers.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the power to grant Awards to employees or officers of the Company or any of its present or future subsidiary corporations and to exercise such other powers under the Plan as the Board may determine, provided that the Board shall fix the terms of the Awards to be granted by such officers (including the exercise price of such Awards, which may include a formula by which the exercise price will be determined) and the maximum number of shares subject to Awards that the officers may grant; provided further, however, that no officer shall be authorized to grant Awards to himself or herself or to any "executive officer" of the Company (as defined by Rule 3b-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) or to any
 
 
"officer" of the Company (as defined by Rule 16a-1 under the Exchange Act).
 
4.
                                                   
Available for Awards
 
(a)
                                 
Number of Shares.
Subject to adjustment under Section 9, Awards may be made under the Plan for up to 97,430,000 shares of common stock, $.0006 par value per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"). For purposes of counting the number of shares available for the grant of Awards under the Plan, (i) shares of Common Stock covered by independent SARs shall be counted against the number of shares available for the grant of Awards under the Plan; (ii) if any Award (A) expires or is terminated, surrendered or canceled without having been fully exercised or is forfeited in whole or in part (including as the result of shares of Common Stock subject to such Award being repurchased by the Company at the original issuance price pursuant to a contractual repurchase right) or (B) results in any Common Stock not being issued because the Award (other than a SAR) is settled for cash, the unused Common Stock covered by such Award (other than a SAR) shall again be available for the grant of Awards under the Plan; provided, however, in the case of Incentive Stock Options (as hereinafter defined), the foregoing shall be subject to any limitations under the Code; and (iii) shares of Common Stock tendered to the Company by a Participant to (A) purchase shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of an Award or (B) satisfy tax withholding obligations (including shares retained from the Award creating the tax obligation) shall not be added back to the number of shares available for the future grant of Awards under the Plan.
 
In addition, if any option or restricted stock award granted under the 1992 Plan expires, is terminated, surrendered or canceled without having been fully exercised, is forfeited in whole or in part (including as the result of shares of Common Stock subject to such restricted stock award being repurchased by the Company at the original issuance price pursuant to a contractual repurchase right), then in each such case the unused Common Stock covered by such option or restricted stock award shall be available for the grant of Awards under the Plan, subject, however, in the case of Incentive Stock Options, to any limitations under the Code; and further provided that shares of Common Stock tendered to the Company to (A) purchase shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of any such option or (B) satisfy tax withholding obligations (including shares retained from the option or restricted stock award creating the tax obligation) shall not be added back to the number of shares available for the future grant of Awards under the Plan and that the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for grant of Awards pursuant to this sentence shall not exceed 51,000,000. Shares issued under the Plan may consist in whole or in part of authorized but unissued shares or treasury shares.
 
(b)
                                
Sub-limits.
Subject to adjustment under Section 9, the following sub-limits on the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards shall apply:
 
(1)
                                
Section 162(m) Per-Participant Limit.
The maximum number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted to any Participant under the Plan in any calendar year shall be 3,450,000. The per-Participant limit described in this Section 4(b)(1) shall be construed and applied consistently with Section 162(m) of the Code ("Section 162(m)").
 
(2)
                                
Limit on Awards other than Options and SARs.
The maximum number of shares with respect to which Awards other than Options and SARs may be granted shall be one-half of the total number of shares of Common Stock covered by the Plan (including any shares that may become available under this Plan pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) hereof).
 
(3)
                                
Limits on Awards to Directors.
The maximum number of shares with respect to which Awards may be granted during the term of the Plan to directors who are not employees of the Company shall be 2,000,000 and the maximum number of shares of Common stock with respect to which Awards may be granted in any calendar year to any director who is not an employee of the Company shall be 150,000.
 
5.
                                                   
Stock Options
 
(a)
                                 
General.
The Board may grant options to purchase Common Stock (each, an "Option") and determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Option, the exercise price of each Option and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of each Option, including conditions relating to applicable federal or state securities laws, as it considers necessary or advisable. An Option which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option (as hereinafter defined) shall be designated a "Nonstatutory Stock Option".
 
(b)
                                
Incentive Stock Options.
An Option that the Board intends to be an "incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code (an "Incentive Stock Option") shall only be granted to employees of Staples, Inc., any of Staples, Inc.'s present or future parent or subsidiary corporations as defined in Sections 424(e) or (f) of the Code, and any other entities the employees of which are eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options under the Code, and shall be subject to and shall be construed consistently with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. The Company shall have no liability to a Participant, or any other party, if an Option (or any part thereof) that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option is not an Incentive Stock Option.
 
(c)
                                 
Exercise Price.
The Board shall establish the exercise price at the time each Option is granted and specify it in the applicable option agreement; provided, however, that the exercise price shall be not less than 100% of the fair market value (the "Fair Market Value") of the Common Stock, as determined by the Board, at the time the Option is granted.
 
(d)
                                
No Reload Rights.
Options granted under this Plan shall not contain any provision entitling the optionee to the automatic grant of additional Options in connection with any exercise of the original Option.
 
(e)
                                 
No Repricing.
Unless such action is approved by the Company's stockholders: (i) no outstanding Option granted under the Plan may be amended to provide an exercise price per share that is lower than the then-current exercise price per share of such outstanding Option (other than adjustments pursuant to Section 9), and (ii) the Board may not cancel any outstanding Option and grant in substitution therefor new Options under the Plan covering the same or a different number of shares of Common Stock and having an exercise price per share lower than the then-current exercise price per share of the cancelled Option.
 
(f)
                                   
Duration of Options.
Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may specify in the applicable option agreement provided, however, that no Option will be granted for a term in excess of 10 years.
 
(g)
                                
Exercise of Option.
Options may be exercised by delivery to the Company of a written notice of exercise signed by the proper person or by any other form of notice (including electronic notice) approved by the Company, together with payment in full as specified in Section 5(h) for the number of shares for which the Option is exercised. Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option will be delivered by the Company following exercise either as soon as practicable or, to the extent permitted by the Company in its sole discretion, on a deferred basis in compliance with Section 409A of the Code (with the Company's obligation to be evidenced by an instrument providing for future delivery of the deferred shares at the time or times specified by the Board).
 
(h)
                                
Payment Upon Exercise.
Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of an Option granted under the Plan shall be paid for as follows:
 
(1)
                                
in cash or by check, payable to the order of the Company;
 
(2)
                                
except as the Board may, in its sole discretion, otherwise provide in an option agreement, by (i) delivery of an irrevocable and unconditional undertaking by a creditworthy broker to deliver promptly to the Company sufficient funds to pay the exercise price and any required tax withholding or (ii) delivery by the Participant to the Company of a copy of irrevocable and unconditional instructions to a creditworthy broker to promptly pay to the Company the exercise price and any required tax withholding;
 
(3)
                                
if provided for in the option agreement or approved by the Company, in its sole discretion, by delivery (either by actual delivery or attestation) of shares of Common Stock owned by the Participant valued at their Fair Market Value, provided (i) such method of payment is then permitted under applicable law, (ii) such Common Stock, if acquired directly from the Company was owned by the Participant for such minimum period of time, if any, as may be established by the Board in its discretion, and (iii) such Common Stock is not subject to any repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting or other similar requirements;
 
(4)
                                
if provided for in the option agreement or approved by the Company, in its sole discretion, by payment of such other lawful consideration as the Board may determine, but in no event may such consideration include delivery of a promissory note of the Participant to the Company; or
 
(5)
                                
by any combination of the above permitted forms of payment.
 
(i)
                                    
Substitute Options.
In connection with a merger or consolidation of an entity with the Company or the acquisition by the Company of property or stock of an entity, the Board may grant Options in substitution for any options or other stock or stock-based awards granted by such entity or an affiliate thereof. Substitute Options may be granted pursuant to this Section 5(i) on such terms as the Board deems appropriate in the circumstances, notwithstanding any limitations on Options contained in the other sections of this Section 5 or in Section 2, so long as (a) the excess of the aggregate fair market value of the shares subject to each substituted option immediately after the issuance of such substituted option over the aggregate exercise price of such option does not exceed the excess of the aggregate fair market value of all shares subject to the original option immediately before the issuance of such substituted option over the aggregate exercise price of the original option and (b) the ratio of the option exercise price to the fair market value of the stock for the substitute option is not greater than the ratio of the option exercise price to the fair market value of the original option immediately before such substitution.
 
(j)
                                    
Amendment of Options.
Subject to the provisions of Section 10(f), the Board may amend an Option to convert it into a Stock Appreciation Right.
 
6.
                                                   
Stock Appreciation Rights
 
(a)
                                 
Nature of Stock Appreciation Rights.
A Stock Appreciation Right, or SAR, is an Award entitling the holder on exercise to receive an amount in cash or Common Stock or a combination thereof (such form to be determined by the Board) determined solely by reference to appreciation, from and after the date of grant, in the fair market value of a share of Common Stock. The date as of which such appreciation or other measure is determined shall be the exercise date unless another date is specified by the Board.
 
(b)
                                
Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights.
Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with, or independently of, Options granted under the Plan.
 
(1)
                                
Rules Applicable to Tandem Awards.
When Stock Appreciation Rights are granted in tandem with Options, (a) the Stock Appreciation Right will be exercisable only at such time or times, and to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable (except to the extent designated by the Board in connection with an Acquisition Event or a Change in Control Event) and will be exercisable in accordance with the procedure required for exercise of the related Option; (b) the Stock Appreciation Right will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the termination or exercise of the related Option, except to the extent designated by the Board in connection with an Acquisition Event or a Change in Control Event and except that a Stock Appreciation Right granted with respect to less than the full number of shares covered by an Option will not be reduced until the number of shares as to which the related Option has been exercised or has terminated exceeds the number of shares not covered by the Stock Appreciation Right; (c) the Option will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the exercise of the related Stock Appreciation Right; and (d) the Stock Appreciation Right will be transferable only with the related
 
 
Option.
 
(2)
                                
Exercise of Independent Stock Appreciation Rights.
A Stock Appreciation Right not granted in tandem with an Option will become exercisable at such time or times, and on such conditions, as the Board may specify. The Board may at any time accelerate the time at which all or any part of the Right may be exercised.
 
(c)
                                       
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights.
Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised by delivery to the Company of a written notice of exercise signed by the proper person or by any other form of notice (including electronic notice) approved by the Company.
 
7.
                                                   
Restricted Stock; Restricted Stock Units
 
(a)
                                 
Grants.
The Board may grant Awards entitling recipients to acquire shares of Common Stock ("Restricted Stock"), subject to the right of the Company to repurchase all or part of such shares at their issue price or other stated or formula price (or to require forfeiture of such shares if issued at no cost) from the recipient in the event that conditions specified by the Board in the applicable Award are not satisfied prior to the end of the applicable restriction period or periods established by the Board for such Award. Instead of granting Awards for Restricted Stock, the Board may grant Awards entitling the recipient to receive shares of Common Stock to be delivered in the future ("Restricted Stock Units") subject to such terms and conditions on the delivery of the shares of Common Stock as the Board shall determine (each Award for Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, a "Restricted Stock Award").
 
(b)
                                
Terms and Conditions.
The Board shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Restricted Stock Award, including the conditions for repurchase (or forfeiture) and the issue price, if any.
 
(c)
                                 
Limitations on Vesting.
Restricted Stock Awards that vest based on the passage of time alone shall be zero percent vested prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant, no more than 33 1/3 % vested after the said first anniversary of the date of grant and before the second anniversary of the date of grant, and no more than 66 2/3 % vested after the second anniversary of the date of grant and before the third anniversary of the date of grant. Restricted Stock Awards that vest based on performance alone shall not vest earlier than the first anniversary of the date of grant. Restricted Stock Awards that vest upon the passage of time and provide for accelerated vesting based on performance shall not vest earlier than the first anniversary of the date of grant. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Section 7(c)(1), the Board may grant Restricted Stock Awards that are not subject to any limitations on vesting with respect to up to 5% of the total number of shares of Common Stock covered by the Plan (excluding any shares that may become available under this Plan pursuant to Section 4(a)(2) hereof).
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the Board may, in its discretion, either at the time a Restricted Stock Award is made or at any time thereafter, waive its right to repurchase shares of Common Stock (or waive the forfeiture thereof) or remove or modify any part or all of the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock Award, provided that the Board may only exercise such rights in extraordinary circumstances which shall include, without limitation, death or disability of the Participant; estate planning needs of the Participant; a merger, consolidation, sale, reorganization, recapitalization, or change in control of the Company; or any other nonrecurring significant event affecting the Company, a Participant or the Plan.
 
8.
                                                   
Other Stock-Based Awards
 
Other Awards of shares of Common Stock and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, shares of Common Stock or other property, including without limitation rights to purchase shares of Common Stock ("Other Stock Unit Awards"), may be granted hereunder to Participants. Such Other Stock Unit Awards shall also be available as a form of payment in the settlement of other Awards granted under the Plan or as payment in lieu of compensation to which a Participant is otherwise entitled.
 
 
Other Stock Unit Awards may be paid in shares of Common Stock or cash, as the Board shall determine. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall determine the conditions of each Other Stock Unit Awards, including any purchase price applicable thereto; provided, however, that the limitations on vesting and exceptions thereto contained in Section 7(c)(1) of the Plan shall also apply to all Other Stock Unit Awards.
 
9.
                                                   
Adjustments for Changes in Common Stock and Certain Other Events
 
(a)
                                 
Changes in Capitalization.
In the event of any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, reclassification of shares, spin-off or other similar change in capitalization or event, or any distribution to holders of Common Stock other than an ordinary cash dividend, (i) the number and class of securities available under this Plan, (ii) the sub-limits set forth in Section 4(b), (iii) the number and class of securities and exercise price per share subject to each outstanding Option, (iv) the repurchase price per share subject to each outstanding Restricted Stock Award and (v) the terms of each other outstanding stock-based Award shall be adjusted by the Company in the same proportion (or substituted Awards may be made, if applicable). If this Section 9(a) applies and Section 9(c) also applies to any event, Section 9(c) shall be applicable to such event, and this Section 9(a) shall not be applicable.
 
(b)
                                
Liquidation or Dissolution.
In the event of a proposed liquidation or dissolution of the Company, the Board shall upon written notice to the Participants provide that all then unexercised Options will (i) become exercisable in full as of a specified time at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of such liquidation or dissolution and (ii) terminate effective upon such liquidation or dissolution, except to the extent exercised before such effective date. The Board may specify the effect of a liquidation or dissolution on any Restricted Stock Award granted under the Plan at the time of the grant.
 
(c)
                                 
Reorganization Events.
 
(1)
                           
Definition.
A "Reorganization Event" shall mean: (a) any merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another entity as a result of which all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock are converted into or exchanged for the right to receive cash, securities or other property or (b) any exchange of all of the Common Stock for cash, securities or other property pursuant to a share exchange transaction.
 
(2)
                           
Consequences of a Reorganization Event on Awards.
In connection with a Reorganization Event, the Board shall take any one or more of the following actions as to all or any outstanding Awards on such terms as the Board determines: (i) provide that Awards shall be assumed, or substantially equivalent Awards shall be substituted, by the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof), (ii) upon written notice to a Participant, provide that the Participant's unexercised Options or other unexercised Awards shall become exercisable in full and will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such Reorganization Event unless exercised by the Participant within a specified period following the date of such notice, (iii) in the event of a Reorganization Event under the terms of which holders of Common Stock will receive upon consummation thereof a cash payment for each share surrendered in the Reorganization Event (the "Acquisition Price"), make or provide for a cash payment to a Participant equal to (A) the Acquisition Price times the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Participant's Options or other Awards (to the extent the exercise price does not exceed the Acquisition Price) minus (B) the aggregate exercise price of all such outstanding Options or other Awards, in exchange for the termination of such Options or other Awards, (iv) provide that outstanding Awards shall become exercisable or realizable, or restrictions applicable to a Restricted Stock Award or other Award shall lapse, in whole or in part, prior to or upon such Reorganization Event, (v) provide that, in connection with a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, Awards shall convert into the right to receive liquidation proceeds (if applicable, net of the exercise price thereof) and (vi) any combination of the foregoing. To the extent all or any portion of an Award becomes exercisable solely as a result of clause (ii) above, the Board may provide that upon exercise of such Award the Participant shall receive shares subject to a right of repurchase by the Company or its successor at the Award exercise price; such repurchase right (A) shall lapse at the same rate as the Award would have become exercisable under its terms and (B) shall not apply to any shares subject to the Award that were exercisable under its terms without regard to clause (ii) above.
 
10.
                                            
General Provisions Applicable to Awards
 
(a)
                                 
Transferability of Awards.
Awards shall not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered by the person to whom they are granted, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution or, other than in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and, during the life of the Participant, shall be exercisable only by the Participant; provided, however, that the Board may permit or provide in an Award for the gratuitous transfer of the Award by the Participant to or for the benefit of any immediate family member, family trust or family partnership established solely for the benefit of the Participant and/or an immediate family member thereof if, with respect to such proposed transferee, the Company would be eligible to use a Form S-8 for the registration of the sale of the Common Stock subject to such Award under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; provided, further, that the Company shall not be required to recognize any such transfer until such time as the Participant and such permitted transferee shall, as a condition to such transfer, deliver to the Company a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Company confirming that such transferee shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Award. References to a Participant, to the extent relevant in the context, shall include references to authorized transferees.
 
(b)
                                
Documentation.
Each Award shall be evidenced in such form (written, electronic or otherwise) as the Board shall determine. Each Award may contain terms and conditions in addition to those set forth in the Plan.
 
(c)
                                 
Board Discretion.
Except as otherwise provided by the Plan, each Award may be made alone or in addition or in relation to any other Award. The terms of each Award need not be identical, and the Board need not treat Participants uniformly.
 
(d)
                                
Termination of Status.
The Board shall determine the effect on an Award of the disability, death, retirement, authorized leave of absence or other change in the employment or other status of a Participant and the extent to which, and the period during which, the Participant, the Participant's legal representative, conservator or guardian may exercise rights under the Award.
 
(e)
                                 
Withholding.
The Company may require each Participant to pay to the Company, or make provision satisfactory to the Company for payment of, an amount sufficient to pay any taxes, social security contributions, or other similar amounts required by law to be withheld in connection with an Award to such Participant. If provided for in an Award or approved by the Company, in its sole discretion, a Participant may satisfy such tax obligations in whole or in part by delivery of shares of Common Stock, including shares retained from the Award creating the tax obligation, valued at their Fair Market Value; provided, however, that except as otherwise provided by the Board, the total tax withholding where stock is being used to satisfy such tax obligations cannot exceed the Company's minimum statutory withholding obligations (based on minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income). Shares surrendered to satisfy tax withholding requirements cannot be subject to any repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting or other similar requirements. The Company may, to the extent permitted by law, deduct any such tax obligations from any payment of any kind otherwise due to a Participant.
 
(f)
                                   
Amendment of Award.
Except as prohibited by Section 5(e), the Board may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award, including but not limited to, substituting therefor another Award of the same or a different type, changing the date of exercise or realization, converting an Incentive Stock Option to a Nonstatutory Stock Option and converting an Option into a SAR, provided that, in each such case, the Participant's consent to such action shall be required unless the Board determines that the action, taking into account any related action, would not materially and adversely affect the Participant.
 
(g)
                                
Conditions on Delivery of Stock.
The Company will not be obligated to deliver any shares of
 
 
Common Stock pursuant to the Plan or to remove restrictions from shares previously delivered under the Plan until (i) all conditions of the Award have been met or removed to the satisfaction of the Company, (ii) in the opinion of the Company's counsel, all other legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of such shares have been satisfied, including any applicable securities laws and any applicable stock exchange or stock market rules and regulations, and (iii) the Participant has executed and delivered to the Company such representations or agreements as the Company may consider appropriate to satisfy the requirements of any applicable laws, rules or regulations.
 
(h)
                                
Acceleration.
The Board may at any time provide that any Award shall become immediately exercisable in full or in part, free of some or all restrictions or conditions, or otherwise realizable in full or in part, as the case may be; provided, however, that this sentence shall apply to a Restricted Stock Award only to the extent consistent with Sections 7(c)(2) and 10(j).
 
(i)
                                    
Deferral.
The Board may provide in an Award or in an amendment to an Award that the Participant may elect to defer the delivery of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be delivered pursuant to such Award. The Board may establish such conditions on the Participant's election as it deems appropriate, including provisions to obtain compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
 
(j)
                                    
Performance Conditions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if the Committee determines at the time a Restricted Stock Award or an Other Stock Unit Award is granted to a Participant who is then an officer, that such Participant is, or is likely to be as of the end of the tax year in which the Company would claim a tax deduction in connection with such Award, a Covered Employee (as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code), then the Committee may provide that this Section 10(j) is applicable to such Award.
 
If a Restricted Stock Award or an Other Stock Unit Award is subject to this Section 10(j), then the lapsing of restrictions thereon and the distribution of Shares pursuant thereto, as applicable, shall be subject to the achievement of one or more objective performance goals established by the Committee, which shall be based on one or more of the following measures: sales, earnings per share, return on net assets, return on equity, adjusted operating profit, free cash flow, total shareholder return, net income and customer service levels. The Committee may determine that special one-time or extraordinary gains and/or losses and/or other one-time or extraordinary events should or should not be included or considered in the calculation of such measures. In addition, customer service target levels will be based on predetermined tests of customer service levels such as scores on blind test ("mystery") shopping, customer comment card statistics, customer relations statistics (e.g., number of customer complaints), and delivery response levels. The Committee believes that disclosure of further detail concerning the performance criteria may be confidential commercial or business information, the disclosure of which would adversely affect the Company. Such performance goals may vary by Participant and may be different for different Awards. Such performance goals shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by, and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of, Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, and the regulations thereunder.
 
The Committee shall have the power to impose such other restrictions on Awards subject to this Section 10(j) as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure that such Awards satisfy all requirements for "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto.
 
11.
                                            
Miscellaneous
 
(a)
                                 
No Right To Employment or Other Status.
No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company. The Company expressly reserves the right at any time to dismiss or otherwise terminate its relationship with a Participant free from any liability or claim under the Plan, except as expressly provided in the applicable Award.
 
(b)
                                
No Rights As Stockholder.
Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award, no Participant shall
 
have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock to be distributed with respect to an Award until becoming the record holder of such shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Company effects a split of the Common Stock by means of a stock dividend and the exercise price of and the number of shares subject to such Option are adjusted as of the date of the distribution of the dividend (rather than as of the record date for such dividend), then an optionee who exercises an Option between the record date and the distribution date for such stock dividend shall be entitled to receive, on the distribution date, the stock dividend with respect to the shares of Common Stock acquired upon such Option exercise, notwithstanding the fact that such shares were not outstanding as of the close of business on the record date for such stock dividend.
 
(c)
                                 
Effective Date and Term of Plan.
The Plan shall become effective on the date on which it is approved by stockholders of the Company and shall remain in full force and effect until terminated by the Board. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the completion of ten years from the date on which the Plan is adopted or was approved by the Company's stockholders, whichever is earlier, but Awards previously granted may extend beyond that date.
 
(d)
                                
Amendment of Plan.
The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time, provided that no amendment requiring the approval of the Company's stockholders under any applicable tax requirement, including without limitation Sections 162(m) and 422 of the Code, shall become effective until such approval of the Company's stockholders is obtained and provided further that without approval of the Company's stockholders, no amendment may (i) increase the number of shares authorized under the Plan (other than pursuant to Section 9), (ii) materially increase the benefits provided under the Plan, (iii) materially expand the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, (iv) expand the types of Awards provided under the Plan or (v) make any other changes which require stockholder approval under the rules of the Nasdaq National Market, Inc. No Award shall be made that is conditioned on the approval of the Company's stockholders of any amendment to the Plan.
 
(e)
                                 
Provisions for Foreign Participants.
The Board may modify the terms and conditions of Awards granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States, establish subplans under the Plan, or adopt such modifications or procedures as the Board may determine to be necessary or advisable to recognize differences in laws, rules, regulations or customs of such foreign jurisdictions with respect to tax, securities, currency, employee benefit, accounting or other matters.
 
(f)
                                   
Compliance With Code Section 409A.
No Award shall provide for deferral of compensation that does not comply with Section 409A of the Code, unless the Board, at the time of grant, specifically provides that the Award is not intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
 
(g)
                                
Governing Law.
The provisions of the Plan and all Awards made hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to any applicable conflicts of law.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FRAMINGHAM, Mass., June 7, 2010
 Staples, Inc. (Nasdaq: SPLS) announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on Staples, Inc. common stock of $0.09 per share.  The dividend is payable on July 15, 2010, to shareholders of record on June 25, 2010.
 
The company also announced its intention to resume share repurchases under the program authorized by its Board of Directors in June 2007.  The company currently has approximately $1.0 billion of remaining authorization under this share repurchase program, which has no expiration date.
 
"Our cash flows and balance sheet remain strong," said Ron Sargent, Staples chairman and chief executive officer.  "This strength gives us the flexibility to invest in key growth initiatives, while at the same time returning excess cash to our shareholders through our quarterly cash dividend and share repurchase program."
 
Under this program, the company will repurchase shares in both open market and privately negotiated transactions. The company's management will determine the timing and amount of the transactions based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Repurchases may also be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which permits the company to repurchase shares when it otherwise would be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the company's stock plans and for other corporate purposes.
 
 
About Staples
 
Staples, the world's largest office products company, is committed to making it easy for customers to buy a wide range of office products and services. Our broad selection of office supplies, electronics, technology and office furniture as well as business services, including computer repair and copying and printing, helps our customers run their offices efficiently. With 2009 sales of $24 billion and 91,000 associates worldwide, Staples operates in 25 countries throughout North and South America, Europe, Asia and Australia serving businesses of all sizes and consumers. Staples invented the office superstore concept in 1986 and today ranks second worldwide in e-commerce sales. The company is headquartered outside Boston. More information about Staples (Nasdaq: SPLS) is available at www.staples.com/media.
 


