FILE:SPLS/SPLS-8K-20111115060517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 15, 2011
508-253-5000
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 15, 2011, Staples, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended October 29, 2011.  The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The information in this Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
The exhibit listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Staples, Inc. Announces Third Quarter 2011 Performance
FRAMINGHAM, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 15, 2011--Staples, Inc. (Nasdaq: SPLS) announced today the results for its third quarter ended October 29, 2011. Total company sales for the third quarter of 2011 increased 0.5 percent to $6.6 billion compared to the third quarter of 2010. Net income for the third quarter of 2011 increased 13 percent year over year to $326 million. Diluted earnings per share, on a GAAP basis, increased 18 percent to $0.47 from $0.40 achieved in the third quarter of 2010, and increased 15 percent compared to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.41 achieved in the third quarter of 2010.
Our results in North America reflect our teams ability to drive strong profit improvement in a tough environment, said Ron Sargent, Staples chairman and chief executive officer. International results were weaker than expected as tight expense management was more than offset by very challenging top line trends.
On a GAAP basis, third quarter 2011 operating income rate improved 25 basis points to 8.12 percent compared to the third quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of integration and restructuring expense in the prior year period, third quarter 2011 operating income rate improved 11 basis points from 8.01 percent. This increase primarily reflects improved product margins, offset by increased supply chain costs and investments in labor to support growth initiatives.
The companys effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2011 was 33.5 percent, compared to 37.5 percent for the third quarter of 2010. The decrease in the effective tax rate was mainly due to the renewal of tax provisions during the fourth quarter of 2010 that allow for the deferral of income tax on certain foreign earnings.
The company generated operating cash flow of $1.1 billion and invested $244 million in capital expenditures year to date, resulting in free cash flow of $852 million for the first three quarters of 2011. At the end of the third quarter, the company had $2.3 billion in liquidity, including $1.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
The company repurchased 10 million shares of its stock for $144 million under its buyback program during the third quarter and has repurchased 29 million shares for $490 million year to date.
North American Delivery
North American Delivery sales for the third quarter of 2011 were $2.6 billion, an increase of 1.8 percent compared to the third quarter of 2010. This primarily reflects double-digit sales growth in facilities and breakroom supplies and promotional products. Operating income rate increased 63 basis points to 9.5 percent compared to the third quarter 2010. This increase primarily reflects improved profitability in the companys Canadian businesses, as well as the facilities and breakroom supplies and promotional products businesses in the U.S., partially offset by investments in information systems and increased fuel expense.
North American Retail
North American Retail sales of $2.7 billion were flat compared to the third quarter of 2010. Third quarter 2011 comparable store sales declined one percent versus the third quarter of 2010, reflecting a one percent decrease in customer traffic and flat average order size. Operating income rate increased 12 basis points to 10.7 percent compared to the third quarter of 2010. This primarily reflects improved product margins, partially offset by increased labor expense and investments in growth initiatives. The company opened two stores and closed three stores in the U.S. and opened two stores in Canada, ending the third quarter of 2011 with 1,908 stores in North America.
International Operations
International sales for the third quarter of 2011 were $1.3 billion, a decrease of 1.9 percent in U.S. dollars, and a decrease of 7.0 percent on a local currency basis compared to the third quarter of 2010. This reflects a 12 percent decrease in comparable store sales in Europe and weak sales in Australia. Operating income rate decreased 136 basis points to 3.0 percent compared to the third quarter of 2010. This decrease primarily reflects deleverage of fixed costs in Australia and European Retail. The company opened one store in Germany during the third quarter of 2011. The International business ended the quarter with 377 stores.
Outlook
For the fourth quarter of 2011, the company expects to achieve flat to low single-digit sales growth compared to the same period of 2010 and expects to achieve diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis in the range of $0.39 to $0.43. For the full year 2011, the company expects sales to increase in the low single-digits compared to 2010 and expects to achieve diluted earnings per share on a GAAP basis in the range of $1.38 to $1.42. Excluding the tax refund in the second quarter of approximately $21 million, or $0.03 per share, the company expects to achieve adjusted diluted earnings per share for the full year in the range of $1.35 to $1.39. Staples anticipates its effective tax rate for the full year will be 34 percent, excluding the second quarter tax refund.
For the full year 2011, the company expects to generate more than $1 billion of free cash flow after spending approximately $400 million in capital expenditures for investments in growth initiatives, systems, the integration of distribution networks in North America and Europe, remodels, and new stores. For the full year 2011, the company now expects to repurchase approximately $600 million of its stock, an increase from the companys previous guidance of $300 million to $500 million.
Presentation of Non-GAAP Information
This press release presents certain results both with and without the integration and restructuring expense associated with Corporate Express in 2010, certain results for 2010 and 2011 both with and without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and certain results with and without the impact of the tax refund in 2011. The presentation of results that excludes these items, as well as the presentation of free cash flow, are non-GAAP financial measures that should be considered in addition to, and should not be considered superior to, or as a substitute for, the presentation of results determined in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are provided below. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures presented provide a meaningful comparison to prior periods because the adjustments do not affect the on-going operations of the combined businesses. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the operating results of the companys business against prior year results and its operating plan, and to forecast and analyze future periods. Management recognizes there are limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as they may reduce comparability with other companies that use different methods to calculate similar non-GAAP measures. Management generally compensates for the limitations resulting from the exclusion of these items by considering the impact of these items separately in GAAP as well as non-GAAP results. In addition, Management presents the most comparable GAAP measures ahead of non-GAAP measures and provides a reconciliation that indicates and describes the adjustments made.
Today's Conference Call
The company will host a conference call today at 9:00 a.m. (ET) to review these results and its outlook. Investors may listen to the call at .
http://investor.staples.com
About Staples
Staples is the worlds largest office products company and a trusted source for office solutions. The company provides products, services and expertise in office supplies, copy & print, technology, facilities and breakroom, and furniture. Staples invented the office superstore concept in 1986 and now has annual sales of $25 billion, ranking second in the world in eCommerce sales. With 90,000 associates worldwide, Staples operates in 26 countries throughout North and South America, Europe, Asia and Australia, making it easy for businesses of all sizes and consumers. The company is headquartered outside Boston. More information about Staples (Nasdaq: SPLS) is available at .
www.staples.com/media
Certain information contained in this news release constitutes forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, but not limited to, the information set forth under Outlook and other statements regarding our future business and financial performance. Any statements contained in this news release that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of the words believes, expects, anticipates, plans, may, will, would, intends, estimates, and other similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. Forward-looking statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections which involve substantial uncertainty and risk, including the review of our assessments by our outside auditor and changes in managements assumptions and projections. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: global economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial performance; our market is highly competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully; our growth may strain our operations; we may be unable to continue to enter new markets successfully; our expanding international operations expose us to risk inherent in foreign operations; our effective tax rate may fluctuate; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could lead to lower earnings; we may be unable to attract and retain qualified associates; our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation; if we are unable to manage our debt, it could materially harm our business and financial condition and restrict our operating flexibility; our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third party vendors; our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to intellectual property and product liability claims; problems in our information systems and technologies may disrupt our operations; compromises of our information systems or unauthorized access to confidential information or our customers or associates personal information may materially harm our business or damage our reputation; various legal proceedings, third party claims, investigations or audits may adversely affect our business and financial performance; and those factors discussed or referenced in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC, under the heading Risk Factors and elsewhere, and any subsequent periodic or current reports filed by us with the SEC. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the date such statements are made (unless another date is indicated) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change.
Financial information follows.
This presentation refers to growth rates in local currency so that business results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Staples' business performance. To present this information, current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. dollars are converted into U.S. dollars at the prior year average monthly exchange rates.
Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures. The Company believes free cash flow is a useful measure of performance and uses this measure as an indication of the Company's ability to generate cash and invest in its business.
CONTACT: Staples, Inc. Owen Davis, 508-253-8468 or Chris Powers/Kevin Barry, 508-253-4632/1487
Media Contact:
Investor Contact:


