FILE:SPLS/SPLS-8K-20120608151634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 4, 2012
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
508-253-5000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 -  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 -  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 -  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 -  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
e)
    On June 4, 2012, the stockholders of Staples, Inc. (the Company) approved: (1) the Staples, Inc. Amended and Restated Long Term Cash Incentive Plan (the Long Term Cash Plan); (2) the Staples, Inc. Amended and Restated Executive Officer Incentive Plan (the Annual Cash Plan); and (3) the Staples, Inc. 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ESPP).
 
The descriptions of the Long Term Cash Plan, Annual Cash Plan and ESPP are qualified in their entirety by reference to the actual terms of the plans, which are attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1, Exhibit 10.2, and 10.3, respectively.
Item 5.03   Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Item 5.07  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
Staples, Inc. held its annual meeting of stockholders on June 4, 2012. Set forth below are the final voting results for each of the matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders. More information about the proposals set forth below can be found in the Proxy Statement.
 
 
 
There were 55,515,491 broker non-votes for each director.
2. Staples' stockholders voted to approve the Amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation to allow stockholder action by majority written consent by a vote of 495,212,139 shares of common stock for and 30,142,994 shares of common stock against. There were 518,015 shares of common stock abstaining and 55,515,491 broker non-votes on this matter. 
3.    Staples' stockholders voted, on an advisory basis, to approve the executive compensation of Staples' named executive officers as disclosed pursuant to the SEC's compensation disclosure rules by a vote of 319,401,435 shares of common stock for and 204,425,011 shares of common stock against. There were 2,046,702 shares of common stock abstaining and 55,515,491 broker non-votes on this matter.
4.     Staples' stockholders voted to approve the Long Term Cash Plan by a vote of 512,293,755 shares of common stock for and 12,693,724 shares of common stock against. There were 885,669 shares of common stock abstaining and 55,515,491 broker non-votes on this matter. 
5.     Staples' stockholders voted to approve the Annual Cash Plan by a vote of 491,792,266 shares of common stock for and 33,071,736 shares of common stock against. There were 1,009,146 shares of common stock abstaining and 55,515,491 broker non-votes on this matter. 
6.     Staples' stockholders voted to approve the ESPP by a vote of 496,519,739 shares of common stock for and 26,790,564
shares of common stock against. There were 2,562,845 shares of common stock abstaining and 55,515,491 broker non-votes on this matter. 
7.           Staples' stockholders voted to ratify the selection by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Ernst & Young LLP as Staples' independent registered public accounting firm for the current fiscal year by a vote of 568,014,140 shares of common stock for and 12,951,813 shares of common stock against. There were 422,686 shares of common stock abstaining.
8.             The non-binding holder proposal regarding a requirement for senior executives to hold 75% net after-tax shares acquired through compensation plans and prohibition on hedging of held shares was rejected by a vote of 126,889,514 shares of common stock for and 397,330,917 shares of common stock against. There were 1,652,717 shares of common stock abstaining and 55,515,491 broker non-votes on this matter.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 3.1
 
CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
TO THE
RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
OF
STAPLES, INC.
*********
Pursuant to Section 242 of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware
Staples, Inc. (hereinafter called the Corporation), organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify as follows:
The Board of Directors of the Corporation duly adopted a resolution, pursuant to Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, proposing an amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, and declaring said amendment to be advisable and in the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders. The stockholders of the Corporation duly approved said proposed amendment in accordance with Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The resolution setting forth the amendment is as follows:
"ARTICLE XI
ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT
Any action required to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, or any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting and without a vote if a consent or consents in writing, solicited, executed and delivered in accordance with this Article XI, the By-Laws of the Corporation and applicable law, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed and delivered to the Corporation and not revoked by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
Stockholder action by written consent may only be taken (1) if sought by a stockholder of record who has complied with the procedures described below, as determined by the Board of Directors, or (2) if solicited by the Board of Directors (in which case the Corporation shall solicit consents from all holders of outstanding voting stock). The right of stockholders to otherwise act by written consent is expressly prohibited. If the Board of Directors determines that a stockholder did not properly comply with the applicable procedures, then the Board of Directors shall not be required to fix a record date and any purported action by written consent shall be null and void to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
In the case of a stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders take corporate action by written consent, such action may only be taken if:
(1)    such stockholder has, by written notice to the secretary in accordance with the By-Laws of the Corporation, requested that the board of directors fix a record date, including in such written notice (A) a description of the action that such stockholder proposes to take by written consent, including
the text of any proposal to be submitted to stockholders and the identity of any person proposed to be elected as a director, (B) the information required by the By-Laws of the Corporation to be contained in a stockholder's notice of business or a nomination to be brought before a meeting of stockholders and (C) any other information relating to the stockholder, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, or the proposal that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings in connection with the solicitation of proxies or consents relating to the proposed action pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (as such may be amended from time to time);
(2)    the Board of Director fixes such a record date or has failed to do so within thirty (30) days after the date on which such request was received by the secretary; and
(3)     such stockholder uses reasonable efforts to solicit consents to take such action from all holders of outstanding voting stock as of the record date.
The Corporation shall, in accordance with Rule 14a-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (or any amended or successor provision), reasonably cooperate with such stockholder in fulfilling the Corporation's obligations under such rule to provide a list of, or mail soliciting materials to, stockholders.
Any action by written consent initiated by a stockholder of record will take effect as of the date and time that the written consents are certified in accordance with the By-Laws of the Corporation and will not relate back to the date the written consents were delivered to the Corporation.
Any stockholder of record seeking to take action by written consent shall comply with all requirements of applicable law, including all requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (as such may be amended from time to time), with respect to such action.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be signed by the undersigned officer of the Corporation this 4 day of June, 2012.
STAPLES, INC.
By:
/s/ MARK A. WEISS
Name: Mark A. Weiss
Title: VP, Assistant General Counsel

Exhibit 3.2
BY-LAWS
of
STAPLES, INC.
(as amended and restated through June 4, 2012)
ARTICLE I
Stockholders
Section 1.
Annual Meeting
. The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on a date to be fixed by the board of directors or the president (which date shall not be a legal holiday in the place where the meeting is to be held) at the time and place to be fixed by the board of directors or the president and stated in the notice of meeting. If no annual meeting is held in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the board of directors shall cause the meeting to be held as soon thereafter as convenient. If no annual meeting is held in accordance with the foregoing provisions, a special meeting may be held in lieu of the annual meeting, and any action taken at that special meeting shall have the same effect as if it had been taken at the annual meeting, and in such case all references in these by-laws to the annual meeting of the stockholders shall be deemed to refer to such special meeting.
Section 2.
Special Meetings
.
Section 2.1
Except as provided in Section 2.2 of this Article below, special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by only the chairman of the board, the president or the board of directors.
Section 2.2.     Subject to the provisions of this Section 2.2, a special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the secretary following the receipt by the secretary of written requests to call a meeting from Eligible Holders (as defined below) of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation at the time of the request. Eligible Holder means any record holder of outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation that (i) is making such request on its own behalf (and not on behalf of a beneficial owner of such common stock), or (ii) is making such request on behalf of a beneficial owner of such common stock, provided that, in the case of this clause (ii), such request must be accompanied by proof of such beneficial ownership in a form that would be sufficient to prove eligibility to submit a shareholder proposal under paragraph (b) of Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor rule. In determining whether requests to call a meeting have been received from Eligible Holders of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation, multiple requests to call a special meeting will not be considered together if they relate to different items of business. Subject to paragraph (D) below, business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the proposals set forth in the notice of such meeting.
(A)
A written request from a stockholder to call a special meeting shall not be effective unless it is signed and dated by a stockholder of record and unless it includes (i) all of the information and representations (including any required supplements) described in Section 7.4 of this Article I if such business relates to the election of directors and (ii) all of the information and representations (including any required supplements) described in Section 8.3 of this Article I in the case of all other business. A stockholder may revoke a request to call a special meeting by written revocation delivered to the secretary at any time prior to the special meeting; provided, however, that if any such revocations are received by the secretary and, as a result of such revocation, there no longer are unrevoked requests from Eligible Holders of at least 25% of the outstanding common stock of the corporation, the board of directors shall have the discretion to determine whether or not to proceed with the special meeting.
(B)
A written request from a stockholder to call a special meeting shall be ineffective if (1) it relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law, (2) such request is delivered between the time beginning on the 61st day after the earliest date of signature on a written request that has been delivered to the secretary relating to an item of business (other than the election of directors) that is identical or substantially similar (a Similar Item) to an item of business included in such request and ending on the one-year anniversary of such earliest date, (3) a Similar Item will be submitted for stockholder approval at any stockholder meeting to be held on or before the 90th day after the secretary receives such written request, or (4) a Similar Item has been presented at the most recent annual meeting or at any special meeting held within one year prior to receipt by the secretary of such request to call a special meeting.
(C)
The board of directors shall determine in good faith whether the requirements set forth in paragraph (B) have been satisfied. The secretary shall determine in good faith whether all other requirements set forth in this subsection have been satisfied. Any determination made pursuant to this paragraph (C) shall be binding on the corporation and its stockholders.
(D)
The board of directors shall determine the place, and fix the date and time, of any stockholder-called special meeting. The board of directors may submit its own proposal or proposals for consideration at a stockholder-called special meeting. The record date for such meeting shall be fixed in accordance with Section 213 (or its successor provisions) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and in accordance with Article IV, Section 4 of these by-laws.
Section 3.
Place of Meetings
. Meetings of the stockholders may be held anywhere within or without the United States. The board of directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that a meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communications in a manner consistent with the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Section 4.
Notice
. Except as hereinafter provided, a written or printed notice of every meeting of stockholders stating the place, if any, date, hour, purposes and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting thereof shall be given by the secretary or an assistant secretary (or by any other officer in the case of an annual meeting or by the person or persons calling the meeting in the case of a special meeting) not less than ten (10) days and not more than sixty (60) days before the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat and to each stockholder who, by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws, is entitled to such notice, by leaving such notice with him or at his residence or usual place of business or by mailing it, postage prepaid, addressed to him at his address as it appears upon the records of the corporation. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given to stockholders, any notice shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to (in a manner consistent with the General Corporation
Law of Delaware) by the stockholder to whom the notice is given. If notice is given by electronic transmission, such notice shall be deemed given at the time specified in Section 232 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware. No notice of the place, if any, date, hour, purposes or the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at any annual or special meeting of stockholders need be given to a stockholder if a written waiver of such notice, executed before or after the meeting by such stockholder or his attorney thereunto authorized, or a waiver by electronic transmission is filed with the records of the meeting, or to any stockholder who attends the meeting without objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Section 5.
Action at a Meeting
.
Section 5.1    Except as otherwise provided by the certificate of incorporation, at any meeting of the stockholders a majority of all shares of stock then issued, outstanding and entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. Though less than a quorum be present, any meeting may without further notice be adjourned to a subsequent date or until a quorum be had, and at any such adjourned meeting any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
Section 5.2    When a quorum is present at any meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of shares of stock representing a majority of the votes cast on a matter (or if there are two or more classes of stock entitled to vote as a separate class, then in the case of each such class, the holders of shares of stock of that class representing a majority of the votes cast on the matter) shall decide any matter to be voted upon by the stockholders at such meeting, except when a different vote is required by express provision of law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws.
Section 5.3    When a quorum is present at any meeting, for the election of directors, a nominee for director shall be elected by the stockholders at such meeting if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election (with abstentions and broker non-votes not counted as a vote either for or against that director's election); provided, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the secretary of the corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the board of directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article I, Section 7 of these by-laws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or before the tenth business day before the corporation first mails its notice of meeting to the stockholders.
Section 5.4    Except as otherwise provided by law or by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws, each holder of record of shares of stock entitled to vote on any matter shall have one vote for each such share held of record by him and a proportionate vote for any fractional shares so held by him. Each stockholder of record entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may vote in person or may authorize another person or persons to vote for such stockholder by a proxy executed or transmitted in a manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware by the stockholder or such stockholder's authorized agent and delivered (including by electronic transmission) to the secretary of the corporation. No proxy shall be voted or acted upon more than three years after its date unless the proxy provides for a longer period of time. A proxy with respect to stock held in the name of two or more persons shall be valid if executed by any one of them unless at or prior to the exercise of the proxy the corporation receives a specific written notice to the contrary from any one of them.
Section 6.
Conduct of Meetings
.
Section 6.1    The board of directors may adopt by resolution such rules, regulations and procedures for the conduct of any meeting of stockholders of the corporation as it shall deem appropriate, including, without limitation, such guidelines and procedures as it may deem appropriate regarding the participation by means of remote communication of stockholders and proxyholders not physically present at a meeting. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules, regulations and procedures as adopted by the board of directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the board of directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as shall be determined; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the board of directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 6.2    The chairman of the meeting shall announce at the meeting when the polls for each matter to be voted upon at the meeting will be opened and closed. After the polls close, no ballots, proxies or votes or any revocations or changes thereto may be accepted.
Section 6.3    In advance of any meeting of stockholders, the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors or the president shall appoint one or more inspectors of election to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more other persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is present, ready and willing to act at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Unless otherwise required by law, inspectors may be officers, employees or agents of the corporation. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of such inspector's duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of such inspector's ability. The inspector shall have the duties prescribed by law and shall take charge of the polls and, when the vote is completed, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken and of such other facts as may be required by law. Every vote taken by ballots shall be counted by a duly appointed inspector or duly appointed inspectors.
Section 7.
Nomination of Directors
.
Section 7.1    Except for any directors elected in accordance with Article II, Section 5 of these by-laws by the board of directors to fill a vacancy or newly-created directorship or as otherwise required by applicable law or stock exchange regulation, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures in this Section 7 shall be eligible for election as directors. Subject to the additional conditions set forth in the last sentence of this paragraph 7.1, nomination for election to the board of directors of the corporation at a meeting of stockholders may be made (a) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (b) by any stockholder of the corporation who complies with the procedures and all information requirements set forth in this Section 7 and who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of such notice and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and is entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting. In the case of a special meeting of stockholders, a stockholder
may nominate directors for election at such special meeting only if (i) the notice of meeting specifies that directors shall be elected at such meeting and (ii) any nomination made by the stockholder is for election to such position(s) as specified in the notice of meeting.
Section 7.2    In the case of an election of directors at an annual meeting of stockholders, director nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the board of directors, must be made by notice, in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid to, and received by, the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered and received not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (A) the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting and (B) the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation or notice of the date of such annual meeting was mailed, whichever first occurs.
Section 7.3    In the case of an election of directors at a special meeting of stockholders, director nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the board of directors, must be made by notice, in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid to, and received by, the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the later of (X) the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such special meeting and (Y) the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation or notice of the date of such special meeting was mailed, whichever first occurs, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to the date of such special meeting. In no event shall the adjournment or postponement of an annual or special meeting (or the public announcement thereof) commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice.
Section 7.4    The stockholder's notice to the secretary of the corporation shall set forth (a) as to each proposed nominee, (i) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of each such nominee, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of each such nominee, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the corporation which are beneficially owned by each such nominee, (iv) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among the stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each such nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the registrant for purposes of such Item and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant, and (v) any other information concerning each such nominee that would be required to be disclosed as to nominees in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitation of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including each such nominee's written consent to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected); (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of such stockholder and the name and address of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a
representation that such stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to make such nomination, (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding between such stockholder and such beneficial owner and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with such nomination, (v) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner with respect to shares of stock of the corporation, and (vi) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (c) a representation as to whether either such stockholder or such beneficial owner, alone or as part of a group, intends (i) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to elect the nominee and/or (ii) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such nominee. The information required by clauses (a) and (b) of the prior sentence shall be supplemented by the stockholder giving the notice not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting as of the record date. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility and qualifications of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
Section 7.5    The officer presiding at a meeting of stockholders shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and such nomination shall not be brought before the meeting.
Section 7.6    Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present a nomination, such nomination shall not be considered, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation. For purposes of this Section 7 and Article I, Section 8 of these by-laws, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a written instrument executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as a proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such written instrument or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the written instrument or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
Section 7.7    Except as otherwise required by law, nothing in this Section 7 shall obligate the corporation or the board of directors to include in any proxy statement or other stockholder communication distributed on behalf of the corporation or the board of directors information with respect to any nominee for director submitted by a stockholder.
Section 7.8    For purposes of this Section 7 and Article I, Section 8 of these by-laws, public announcement shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones New Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Section 8.
Notice of Business at Meetings
.
Section 8.1    At any meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a special meeting, business must be brought before the meeting in accordance with Article I, Section 2 or Article I, Section 7 of these by-laws. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors or (c) properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, if such business relates to the election of directors of the corporation, the procedures and all information requirements in Article I, Section 7 of these by-laws must be complied with. For business (other than the election of directors) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the business must constitute a proper matter under Delaware law for stockholder action and the stockholder must (i) have given timely notice thereof and provided all required information in writing to the secretary of the corporation in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 8, (ii) be a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of such notice and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (iii) be entitled to vote on such business at such meeting.
Section 8.2    To be timely, notice by the stockholder must be delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to, and received by, the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation, not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered and received not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (A) the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting and (B) the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation or notice of the date of such annual meeting was mailed, whichever first occurs. In no event shall the adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting (or the public announcement thereof) commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice.
Section 8.3    The stockholder's notice to the secretary of the corporation shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text relating to the business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these by-laws, the language of the proposed amendment), and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, and the name and address of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (c) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (d) a representation that such stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business, (e) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding between such stockholder and such beneficial owner and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with such business and any material interest of such stockholder and such beneficial owner in such business, (f) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power
of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner with respect to shares of stock of the corporation, (g) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the business proposed pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and (h) a representation as to whether either such stockholder or such beneficial owner, alone or as part of a group, intends (i) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal and/or (ii) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal. The information required by clauses (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of the prior sentence shall be supplemented by the stockholder giving the notice not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting as of the record date.
Section 8.4    Notwithstanding anything in these by-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any meeting of stockholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8, and except that any stockholder proposal which complies with Rule 14a-8 of the proxy rules (or any successor provision) promulgated under the Exchange Act and is to be included in the corporation's proxy statement for an annual meeting of stockholders shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of this Section 8.
Section 8.5    The officer presiding at a meeting of stockholders shall have the power and duty to determine whether business was not brought in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and such business shall not be brought before the meeting.
Section 8.6    Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present business, such business shall not be considered, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation.
Section 8.7    Except as otherwise required by law, nothing in this Section 8 shall obligate the corporation or the board of directors to include in any proxy statement or other stockholder communication distributed on behalf of the corporation or the board of directors information with respect to any proposal submitted by a stockholder.
Section 9.
Action by Written Consent
.
Section 9.1    Any action required to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation, or any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting and without a vote if a consent or consents in writing, solicited, executed and delivered in accordance with Article XI of the certificate of incorporation, these by-laws and applicable law, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed and delivered to the corporation and not revoked by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
    
Section 9.2    In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the secretary, request that the board of
directors fix a record date. Such written notice shall include (A) a description of the action that such stockholder proposes to take by written consent, including the text of any proposal to be submitted to stockholders and the identity of any person proposed to be elected as a director, (B) the information required by Article I, Section 7 or Article I, Section 8, as applicable, of these by-laws to be contained in a stockholder's notice of business or a nomination to be brought before a meeting of stockholders and (C) any other information relating to the stockholder, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, or the proposal that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings in connection with the solicitation of proxies or consents relating to the proposed action pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder (as such may be amended from time to time). The board of directors shall within thirty (30) days after the date on which such written notice is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date (unless a record date has previously been fixed by the board of directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 9.2). If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 9.2 or otherwise within thirty (30) days after the date on which such written notice is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date after the expiration of such thirty (30) day time period on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business, or to any officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 9.2, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting if prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law shall be at the close of business on the date on which the board of directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Section 9.3    In the case of a stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders take corporate action by written consent, such action may only be taken if such stockholder has, following the record date established in accordance with Section 9.2 above, used reasonable efforts to solicit consents to take such action from all holders of outstanding voting stock as of the record date. The corporation shall, in accordance with Rule 14a-7 under the Exchange Act (or any amended or successor provision), reasonably cooperate with such stockholder in fulfilling the corporation's obligations under such rule to provide a list of, or mail soliciting materials to, stockholders.
Section 9.4    In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by this Section 9 and applicable law, to the corporation of written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the corporation shall engage independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of performing promptly a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent and without a meeting shall be effective until such inspectors have completed their review, determined that the requisite number of valid and unrevoked consents delivered to the corporation in accordance with this Section 9 and applicable law have been obtained to take the action specified in the consents, and certified such determination for entry in the records of the corporation kept for the purpose of recording the proceedings of meetings of stockholders. The action by written consent will take effect as of the date and time of the certification of the written consents and will not relate back to the date the written consents were delivered to the corporation. In conducting the review required by this paragraph, the independent inspectors may, at the expense of the corporation, retain legal counsel and any other necessary or appropriate professional advisors and such other personnel as they may deem necessary or appropriate to assist them and shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the opinion of such counsel or advisor. Nothing contained in this Section 9.4 shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the board of directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors,
or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation). If after such review the independent inspectors shall determine that the written consent or consents are valid and that the action specified therein has been validly authorized, that fact shall forthwith be certified on the records of the corporation kept for the purpose of recording the proceedings of meetings of stockholders, and the written consent or consents shall be filed in such records. Prompt notice of the taking of corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing and who, if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been entitled to notice of the meeting.
Section 9.5     Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with this Section 9, a valid written consent or valid written consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take such action are delivered to the corporation in the manner prescribed in this Section 9 and applicable law, and not revoked.
Section 9.6    Notwithstanding anything in these by-laws to the contrary, no action may be taken by the stockholders by written consent except in accordance with these by-laws and the certificate of incorporation. If the board of directors shall determine that any request to fix a record date or to take stockholder action by written consent was not properly made in accordance with these by-laws and the certificate of incorporation, or the stockholder or stockholders seeking to take such action do not otherwise comply with these by-laws and the certificate of incorporation, then the board of directors shall not be required to fix a record date and any purported action by written consent shall be null and void to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. In addition to the requirements of these by-laws and the certificate of incorporation with respect to stockholders seeking to take an action by written consent, any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders take corporate action by written consent shall comply with all requirements of applicable law, including all requirements of the Exchange Act, with respect to such action.
Section 10.    
Voting List
. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting; or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
ARTICLE II
Directors
Section 1.
Number and Election
. There shall be a board of directors consisting of not less than
five directors. The exact number of directors (subject to the limitation specified in the preceding sentence) shall be fixed from time to time by the board of directors pursuant to a duly adopted resolution. No director need be a stockholder.
Section 2.
Terms
. The directors shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the next annual meeting of stockholders, subject to the election and qualification of their successors or the earlier of their death, resignation or removal.
Section 3.
Resignations
. Any director may resign by delivering a resignation in writing or by electronic transmission to the corporation at its principal office or to the president or the secretary. Such resignation shall become effective at the time or upon the happening of the condition, if any, specified therein or, if no such time or condition is specified, upon its receipt.
Section 4.
Removal
. Any one or more of the directors may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote in the election of directors. Any proposal by a stockholder of the corporation to remove a director, in order to be validly acted upon at any meeting, shall comply with the procedures and information requirements of Article I, Section 2 or Article I, Section 8, as applicable, of these by-laws.
Section 5.
Vacancies
. Vacancies in the board of directors may be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining directors or, if not yet so filled, by the stockholders.
Section 6.
Regular Meetings
. Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at such times and places as the board of directors may fix from time to time and, when so fixed, no notice thereof need be given. The first meeting of the board of directors following the annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held without notice immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of the stockholders or the special meeting held in lieu thereof. If in any year a meeting of the board of directors is not held at such time and place, any elections to be held or business to be transacted at such meeting may be held or transacted at any later meeting of the board of directors with the same force and effect as if held or transacted at such meeting. Regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held at least once during each of the corporation's fiscal quarters.
Section 7.
Special Meetings
. Special meetings of the board of directors may be called at any time by the president or secretary or by two or more members of the board of directors. A written or printed notice given in person or by telephone or sent by telegram, telecopy or electronic mail stating the place, if any, date and hour (but not necessarily the purposes) of the meeting shall be given by the secretary or an assistant secretary or by the officer or directors calling the meeting at least forty-eight (48) hours before such meeting to each director by leaving such notice with him or at his residence or usual place of business, by mailing it, postage prepaid, or by sending it by prepaid telegram, addressed to him at his last known address or sending it by electronic mail, addressed to him at his last known electronic mail address. Notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, a notice relating to any special meeting of the board of directors called by two or more members of the board or by the president or the secretary may be given in the shortest period permitted under Delaware law, as amended from time to time. No notice of the place, if any, date or hour of any meeting of the board of directors need be given to a director if a written waiver of such notice, executed by him before or after the meeting, or a waiver by electronic transmission, is filed with the records of the meeting, or to a director who attends the meeting without objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Section 8.
Action at a Meeting
. At any meeting of the board of directors, a majority of the
directors then in office shall constitute a quorum. Though less than a quorum be present, any meeting may without further notice be adjourned to a subsequent date or until a quorum be had. When a quorum is present at any meeting a majority of the directors present may take any action on behalf of the board except to the extent that a larger number is required by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws.
Section 9.
Action Without a Meeting
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the directors may be taken without a meeting if all the directors consent to the action in writing or by electronic transmission and the written consents and electronic transmissions are filed with the records of the meetings of the directors. Such consents shall be treated for all purposes as a vote at the meeting.
Section 10.
Powers
. The board of directors shall have and may exercise all the powers of the corporation, except such as by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws are conferred upon or reserved to the stockholders. In the event of any vacancy in the board of directors, the remaining directors then in office, except as otherwise provided by law, shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the board of directors until the vacancy is filled.
Section 11.
Committees
. The board of directors may elect from the board an executive committee or one or more other committees and may delegate to any such committee or committees any or all of the powers of the board except those which by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws may not be so delegated. Such committees shall serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. Except as the board of directors may otherwise determine, each such committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, but, unless otherwise determined by the board or in such rules, its business shall be conducted, as nearly as may be, as provided in these by-laws for the conduct of the business of the board of directors.
Section 12.
Meeting by Telecommunications
. Members of the board of directors or any committee elected thereby may participate in a meeting of such board or committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in a meeting can hear each other and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
ARTICLE III
Officers
Section 1.
Enumeration
. The officers of the corporation shall consist of a president, a treasurer and a secretary and such other officers, including without limitation a chairman of the board of directors and one or more vice presidents, assistant treasurers and assistant secretaries, as the board of directors may from time to time determine.
Section 2.
Qualifications
. No officer need be a stockholder or a director. The same person may hold at the same time one or more offices unless otherwise provided by law. Any officer may be required by the board of directors to give a bond for the faithful performance of his duties in such form and with such sureties as the board may determine.
Section 3.
Elections
. The president, treasurer and secretary and the chairman of the board of directors, if any, shall be elected annually by the board of directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of the stockholders. All other officers shall be chosen or appointed by the board of directors.
Section 4.
Term
. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws, the president, treasurer and secretary and the chairman of the board of directors, if any, shall
hold office until the first meeting of the board of directors following the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until their respective successors are chosen and qualified. All other officers shall hold office until the first meeting of the board of directors following the next annual meeting of the stockholders, unless a shorter time is specified in the vote choosing or appointing such officer or officers.
Section 5.
Resignations
. Any officer may resign by delivering his written resignation to the corporation at its principal office or to the president or secretary. Such resignation shall be effective at the time or upon the happening of the condition, if any, specified therein or, if no such time or condition is specified, upon its receipt.
Section 6.
Removal
. Any officer may be removed from office with or without cause by vote of a majority of the directors then in office.
Section 7.
Vacancies
. Vacancies in any office may be filled by the board of directors.
Section 8.
Certain Duties and Powers
. The officers designated below, subject at all times to modification by and to the direction and control of the board of directors, shall have and may exercise the respective duties and powers set forth below:
Section 8.1    
The Chairman of the Board of Directors
. The chairman of the board of directors, if there be one, shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the board of directors.
Section 8.2    
The President
. The president shall be the chief operating officer of the corporation, if there is then a chairman of the board of directors, and otherwise the president shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall have general operating charge of its business. Unless otherwise prescribed by the board of directors, he shall, when present, preside at all meetings of the stockholders, and, if a director, at all meetings of the board of directors unless there be a chairman of the board of directors who is present at the meeting.
Section 8.3    
The Treasurer
. The treasurer shall be the chief financial officer of the corporation, unless otherwise specified by the board of directors, and shall cause to be kept accurate books of account.
Section 8.4    
The Secretary
. The secretary shall keep a record of all proceedings of the stockholders and of all proceedings of the board of directors in a book kept for that purpose. In the absence of the secretary from any meeting of the stockholders or from any meeting of the board of directors, an assistant secretary, if there be one, otherwise a secretary pro-tempore designated by the person presiding at the meeting, shall perform the duties of the secretary at such meeting.
Section 9.
Other Duties and Powers
. Each officer, subject at all times to these by-laws and to the direction and control of the board of directors, shall have and may exercise, in addition to the duties and powers specifically set forth in these by-laws, such duties and powers as are prescribed by law, such duties and powers as are commonly incident to his office and such duties and powers as the board of directors may from time to time prescribe.
ARTICLE IV
Capital Stock
Section 1.
Amount and Issuance
. The total number of shares and the par value, if any, of each class of stock which the corporation is authorized to issue shall be stated in the certificate of incorporation. The directors may at any time issue all or from time to time any part of the unissued capital stock of the corporation from time to time authorized under the certificate of incorporation and may determine, subject to any requirements of law, the consideration for which stock is to be issued and the manner of allocating such consideration between capital and surplus.
Section 2.
Certificates
.
Section 2.1    The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares. Every holder of stock of the corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates stating the number and the class and the designation of the series, if any, of the shares held by him registered in certificate form and otherwise in such form as may be prescribed by law and approved by the board of directors. Each such certificate shall be signed by the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors or the president or vice-president, and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer or the secretary or an assistant secretary. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 2.2    Every certificate issued for shares of stock at a time when such shares are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to the certificate of incorporation, these by-laws or any agreement to which the corporation is a party shall have the restriction noted conspicuously on the certificate and shall also set forth on the face or back of the certificate either (i) the full text of the restriction or (ii) a statement of the existence of such restriction and a statement that the corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
Section 2.3    Every certificate issued for shares of stock at a time when the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class or series of stock shall set forth on the face or back of the certificate either (i) the full text of the preferences, voting powers, qualifications and special and relative rights of the shares of each class and series, if any, authorized to be issued, as set forth in the certificate of incorporation or (ii) a statement of the existence of such preferences, powers, qualifications and rights and a statement that the corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon written request and without charge.
Section 2.4    Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to Sections 151, 202(a) or 218(a) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or, with respect to Section 151 of General Corporation Law of Delaware, a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Section 3.
Transfers
. The board of directors may make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the law, with the certificate of incorporation or with these by-laws as it deems expedient relative to the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock, whether represented by stock certificates or in uncertificated form. The board of directors may appoint a transfer agent and a registrar of transfers or either and require all stock certificates to bear their signatures. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the certificate of incorporation or by these by-laws, the corporation shall be entitled to treat the record holder of any shares of stock as shown on the books of the corporation as the holder of such shares for all purposes, including the right to receive notice of and to vote at any meeting of stockholders and the right to receive any dividend or other distribution in respect of such shares.
Section 4.
Record Date
. In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action (other than action by consent in writing without a meeting), the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors; and in such case only stockholders of record on such record date shall have such right, notwithstanding any transfer of stock on the books of the corporation after the record date. Such record date fixed by the board of directors shall (i) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, unless otherwise required by law, be not more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting and (ii) in the case of any other action (other than action by consent in writing without a meeting), be not more than sixty (60) days before such other action. If no record date is fixed: (i) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (ii) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose (other than action by consent in writing without a meeting) shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of and to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board of directors may in its discretion fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. The record date for an action by consent in writing without a meeting shall be set in accordance with Article I, Section 9 of these by-laws.
Section 5.
Lost Certificates
. The board of directors may, except as otherwise provided by law, determine the conditions upon which a new certificate of stock may be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, mutilated or destroyed.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 1.
Fiscal Year
. The fiscal year of the corporation shall end on the Saturday nearest to January 31 in each year.
Section 2.
Corporate Seal
. The seal of the corporation shall be in such form as shall be determined from time to time by the board of directors.
Section 3.
Voting of Securities
. Except as the board of directors may otherwise prescribe, the president or the treasurer shall have full power and authority in the name and on behalf of the corporation,
subject to the instructions of the board of directors, to waive notice of, to attend, act and vote at, and to appoint any person or persons to act as proxy or attorney in fact for this corporation (with or without power of substitution) at any meeting of stockholders or shareholders of any other corporation or organization, the securities of which may be held by this corporation.
ARTICLE VI
Indemnification
Section 1.
Actions, Suits and Proceedings Other than by or in the Right of the Corporation
. The corporation shall indemnify each person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the corporation), by reason of the fact that he is or was, or has agreed to become, a director or officer of the corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the corporation, as a director, officer or trustee of, or in a similar capacity with, another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including any employee benefit plan) (all such persons being referred to hereafter as an Indemnitee), or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of
nolo
contendere
or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article, except as set forth in Section 7 of this Article below, the corporation shall not indemnify an Indemnitee seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by the Indemnitee unless the initiation thereof was approved by the board of directors of the corporation.
Section 2.
Actions or Suits by or in the Right of the Corporation
. The corporation shall indemnify any Indemnitee who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was, or has agreed to become, a director or officer of the corporation, or is or was serving, or has agreed to serve, at the request of the corporation, as a director, officer or trustee of, or in a similar capacity with, another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including any employee benefit plan), or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, against all expenses (including attorneys' fees) and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the corporation, except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of such liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses (including attorneys' fees) which the Court of Chancery of Delaware or such other court shall deem proper.
Section 3.
Indemnification for Expenses of Successful Party
. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article, to the extent that an Indemnitee has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, or on appeal from any such action, suit or proceeding, he shall be indemnified against all expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith. Without limiting the foregoing, if any action, suit or proceeding is disposed of, on the merits or otherwise (including a disposition without prejudice), without (i) the disposition being adverse to the Indemnitee, (ii) an adjudication that the Indemnitee was liable to the corporation, (iii) a plea of guilty or
nolo
contendere
by the Indemnitee, (iv) an adjudication that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and (v) with respect to any criminal proceeding, an adjudication that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful, the Indemnitee shall be considered for the purposes hereof to have been wholly successful with respect thereto.
Section 4.
Notification and Defense of Claim
. As a condition precedent to his right to be indemnified, the Indemnitee must notify the corporation in writing as soon as practicable of any action, suit, proceeding or investigation involving him for which indemnity will or could be sought. With respect to any action, suit, proceeding or investigation of which the corporation is so notified, the corporation will be entitled to participate therein at its own expense and/or to assume the defense thereof at its own expense, with legal counsel reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee. After notice from the corporation to the Indemnitee of its election so to assume such defense, the corporation shall not be liable to the Indemnitee for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such claim, other than as provided below in this Section 4. The Indemnitee shall have the right to employ his own counsel in connection with such claim, but the fees and expenses of such counsel incurred after notice from the corporation of its assumption of the defense thereof shall be at the expense of the Indemnitee unless (i) the employment of counsel by the Indemnitee has been authorized by the corporation, (ii) counsel to the Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest or position on any significant issue between the corporation and the Indemnitee in the conduct of the defense of such action or (iii) the corporation shall not in fact have employed counsel to assume the defense of such action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel for the Indemnitee shall be at the expense of the corporation, except as otherwise expressly provided by this Article. The corporation shall not be entitled, without the consent of the Indemnitee, to assume the defense of any claim brought by or in the right of the corporation or as to which counsel for the Indemnitee shall have reasonably made the conclusion provided for in clause (ii) above.
Section 5.
Advance of Expenses
. Subject to the provisions of Section 6 of this Article below, in the event that the corporation does not assume the defense pursuant to Section 4 of this Article of any action, suit, proceeding or investigation of which the corporation receives notice under this Article, any expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by an Indemnitee in defending a civil or criminal action, suit, proceeding or investigation or any appeal therefrom shall be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such matter, provided, however, that the payment of such expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in advance of the final disposition of such matter shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay all amounts so advanced in the event that it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized in this Article. Such undertaking may be accepted without reference to the financial ability of such person to make such repayment.
Section 6.
Procedure for Indemnification
. In order to obtain indemnification or advancement of expenses pursuant to Section 1, 2, 3 or 5 of this Article, the Indemnitee shall submit to the corporation a written request, including in such request such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled
to indemnification or advancement of expenses. Any such indemnification or advancement of expenses shall be made promptly, and in any event within 60 days after receipt by the corporation of the written request of the Indemnitee, unless with respect to requests under Section 1, 2, or 5 of this Article the corporation determines within such 60-day period that the Indemnitee did not meet the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made in each instance by (a) a majority vote of a quorum of the directors of the corporation consisting of persons who are not at that time parties to the action, suit or proceeding in question (disinterested directors), (b) if no such quorum is obtainable, a majority vote of a committee of two or more disinterested directors, (c) a majority vote of a quorum of the outstanding shares of stock of all classes entitled to vote for directors, voting as a single class, which quorum shall consist of stockholders who are not at that time parties to the action, suit or proceeding in question, (d) independent legal action (who may be regular legal counsel to the corporation), or (e) a court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 7.
Remedies
. The right to indemnification or advances as granted by this Article shall be enforceable by the Indemnitee in any court of competent jurisdiction if the corporation denies such request, in whole or in part, or if no disposition thereof is made within the 60-day period referred to above in Section 6 of this Article. Unless otherwise required by law, the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of expenses under this Article shall be on the corporation. Neither the failure of the corporation to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because the Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the corporation pursuant to Section 6 of this Article that the Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct. The Indemnitee's expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with successfully establishing his right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such proceeding shall also be indemnified by the corporation.
Section 8.
Subsequent Amendment
. No amendment, termination or repeal of this Article or of the relevant provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or any other applicable laws shall affect or diminish in any way the rights of any Indemnitee to indemnification under the provisions hereof with respect to any action, suit, proceeding or investigation arising out of or relating to any actions, transactions or facts occurring prior to the final adoption of such amendment, termination or repeal.
Section 9.
Other Rights
. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which an Indemnitee seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any law (common or statutory), agreement or vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in any other capacity while holding office for the corporation, and shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to be a director or officer, and shall inure to the benefit of the estate, heirs, executors and administrators of the Indemnitee. Nothing contained in this Article shall be deemed to prohibit, and the corporation is specifically authorized to enter into, agreements with officers and directors providing indemnification rights and procedures different from those set forth in this Article. In addition, the corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by its board of directors, grant indemnification rights to other employees or agents of the corporation or other persons serving the corporation and such rights may be equivalent to, or greater or less than, those set forth in this Article.
Section 10.
Partial Indemnification
. If an Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Article to indemnification by the corporation for some or a portion of the expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or investigation and any appeal therefrom but not, however, for
the total amount thereof, the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify the Indemnitee for the portion of such expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines or amounts paid in settlement to which the Indemnitee is entitled.
Section 11.
Insurance
. The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including any employee benefit plan) against any expense, liability or loss incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Section 12.
Merger or Consolidation
. If the corporation is merged into or consolidated with another corporation and the corporation is not the surviving corporation, the surviving corporation shall assume the obligations of the corporation under this Article with respect to any action, suit, proceeding or investigation arising out of or relating to any actions, transactions or facts occurring prior to the date of such merger or consolidation.
Section 13.
Savings Clause
. If this Article or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Indemnitee as to any expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement in connection with any action, suit, proceeding or investigation, whether civil, criminal or administrative, including an action by or in the right of the corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Section 14.
Definitions
. Terms used herein and defined in Section 145(h) and Section 145(i) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in such Section 145(h) and Section 145(i).
Section 15.
Subsequent Legislation
. If the General Corporation Law of Delaware is amended after adoption of this Article to expand further the indemnification permitted to Indemnitees, then the corporation shall indemnify such persons to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, as so amended.
ARTICLE VII
Amendments
These by-laws may be amended or repealed at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of capital stock then issued, outstanding and entitled to vote provided notice of the proposed amendment or repeal is given in the notice of the meeting.
If authorized by the certificate of incorporation, these by-laws may also be amended or repealed in whole or in part, or new by-laws made, by the board of directors except with respect to any provision hereof which by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws requires action by the stockholders.

Exhibit 10.1
Staples, Inc.
Amended and Restated
Long Term Cash Incentive Plan
(Effective March 6, 2012)
I.    Summary and Purpose
Staples, Inc. (Staples) has developed this Amended and Restated Long Term Cash Incentive Plan (this Plan), to provide opportunities for Participants (as defined in Section III. below) to earn financial rewards for their role in ensuring that Staples meets its long-term performance targets. This Plan aims to align the interests of the Participants with those of Staples' stockholders. Awards are based on actual results measured against pre-established company financial objectives and other long-term performance goals.
This Plan is intended to provide for long-term cash incentive awards based upon a performance cycle for a specified year or number of years (a Performance Cycle) under which performance goals will be established for such Performance Cycle in its entirety or separately for each fiscal year (a Plan Year) included within such Performance Cycle.
The performance goals for each Participant will be established in accordance with Section IV within the first 90 days of the Performance Cycle (or within the first 90 days of each Plan Year in the Performance Cycle if each Plan Year within the Performance Cycle will have separate performance goals). Once established, the performance goals shall remain fixed for the balance of the Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable).
A target award (as defined in Section IV.C. below, a Target Award) will also be established for each Participant in accordance with Section IV within the first 90 days of each Performance Cycle. Once established, the Target Award shall remain fixed for the balance of the Performance Cycle.
At the end of the Performance Cycle, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Staples (the Committee) will determine the amount of the payment to be made to a Participant with respect to the Performance Cycle, and (subject to the other provisions of this Plan) pay the total amount so determined to the Participant. Where each Plan Year in such Performance Cycle has separate performance goals, at the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the amount of the payment to be made to a Participant with respect to each Plan Year in the Performance Cycle, and (subject to the other provisions of this Plan) pay the total amount so determined to the Participant.
A Participant may be granted more than one award under this Plan, and may be granted awards that have overlapping Performance Cycles or Plan Years.
II.    Term of Plan
This Plan, subject to stockholder approval, shall apply beginning with the fiscal year commencing January 30, 2012 and will terminate at the end of the fiscal year beginning January 30, 2016, unless further extended by subsequent stockholder approval.
III.    Eligibility
Subject to the determination by the Committee that the applicable performance goals and all other requirements of this Plan are met, the following guidelines will be used to determine an individual's eligibility for participation in this Plan and eligibility for payment of an award.
Any associate of Staples or of any entity that Staples directly or indirectly controls (each, an Affiliate) will be eligible to participate in this Plan. Each associate who has been granted an award under this Plan shall be deemed a Participant in this Plan.
Notwithstanding the establishment of a Target Award for a Participant and notwithstanding the provisions of this Section III. which provide for prorated awards in certain circumstances, with the exception of awards payable under the special rules applicable to Participants who die and certain Participants affected by a Change in Control, awards granted to Participants are intended to be payable solely on account of the attainment of one or more pre-established objective performance goals as described in Sections IV. and V. Accordingly, except as provided for Participants who die or who are affected by a Change in Control as described herein, no award or part thereof will be paid unless the applicable performance goals were pre-established by the Committee in accordance with Section IV.B., the Committee determines that the applicable performance goals for the Performance Cycle, or the Plan Years within the Performance Cycle, were achieved, and the Committee authorizes the payment of the award as described in Section V. In all events, payment will be made at the time and in the manner described in Section V.
A.
Termination of Employment (Excluding Retirement, Death, Permanent Disability and Change in Control)
A Participant whose employment with Staples and each of its Affiliates terminates prior to the end of a Performance Cycle, other than as a result of retirement (as defined in Section III.B. below), death, permanent disability, or Change in Control (as defined in Section III.D. below), will be eligible for an award under this Plan for that Performance Cycle as follows:
(i)
If a Participant voluntarily terminates employment with Staples and each of its Affiliates before the end of the Performance Cycle but after the establishment of the Target Award and the performance goals for the Participant for the Performance Cycle, then the Participant will be eligible for a prorated award calculated by multiplying the Participant's approved award by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of Plan Years ended before the Plan Year in which the Participant terminates employment and the denominator of which will be the number of Plan Years in the Performance Cycle; provided however, if the Plan Years within the Performance Cycle have separate performance goals, then the Participant will be eligible for an award for any Plan Years ended before the Plan Year in which the Participant terminates employment.
(ii)
If a Participant's employment with Staples and each of its Affiliates is terminated by Staples or an Affiliate without Cause (as defined in Section III.D.(iii) below) before the end of the Performance Cycle but after the establishment of the Target Award and the performance goals for the Participant for the Performance Cycle, then the Participant will be eligible for a prorated award calculated by multiplying the Participant's approved award by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of days from the start of the Performance Cycle through the date in which the Participant's employment was terminated and the denominator of which will be the total number of days in the Performance Cycle; provided however, if the Plan Years within the Performance Cycle have separate performance goals, then the Participant will be eligible for an award for any Plan Years ended before the Plan Year in which the Participant's employment was terminated and in addition, if the Participant is terminated after the establishment of the Target Award for
the Participant for the Performance Cycle and the performance goals for the Participant for the Plan Year of termination, the Participant will be eligible for a prorated award for the Plan Year in which the Participant's employment is terminated calculated by multiplying the Participant's approved award for that Plan Year by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of days from the beginning of the Plan Year through the date of the Participant's termination and the denominator of which will be the total number of days in that Plan Year.
(iii)
If a Participant's employment with Staples and each of its Affiliates is terminated by Staples or an Affiliate for Cause before the end of the Performance Cycle, then the Participant will not be eligible to receive payment of an award under this Plan.
(iv)
A Participant whose termination occurs before the establishment of the Target Award for the Participant for a Performance Cycle and the performance goals for the Participant for that Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable) will not receive an award for that Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable).
B.
Retirement, Death or Permanent Disability
(i)    Retirement:
If a Participant terminates his or her employment with Staples and each of its Affiliates before the end of the Performance Cycle and after attaining age 55, and if at the time of such termination of employment the sum of the years of service (as determined by the Committee) completed by the Participant plus the Participant's age is greater than or equal to 65, and if the Participant's retirement occurs after the establishment of the Target Award and the performance goals for the Participant for the Performance Cycle, then the Participant will be eligible for a prorated award calculated by multiplying the Participant's approved award by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of days the Participant was employed by Staples or an Affiliate during the Performance Cycle and the denominator of which will be the total number of days in such Performance Cycle; provided however, if the Plan Years within the Performance Cycle have separate performance goals, then the Participant will be eligible for an award for any Plan Years ended before the Plan Year in which the Participant retires and in addition, if the Participant's retirement occurs after the establishment of the Target Award for the Participant for the Performance Cycle and the performance goals for the Participant for the Plan Year of retirement, the Participant will be eligible for a prorated award for the Plan Year in which the Participant retires calculated by multiplying the Participant's approved award for such Plan Year by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of days from the beginning of the Plan Year through the date of the Participant's retirement and the denominator of which will be the total number of days in that Plan Year. A Participant whose retirement occurs before the establishment of the Target Award for a Performance Cycle and the performance goals for the Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable) will not receive an award for that Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable).
(ii)    Death:
If a Participant's employment with Staples and each of its Affiliates is terminated due to death before the end of the Performance Cycle but after the establishment of the Target Award and the performance goals for the Participant for the Performance Cycle, then without regard to the amount that would have been earned by the Participant under the award based upon achievement of the performance goals, 100% of the Participant's Target Award for such Performance Cycle will be paid to the Participant's beneficiary (as defined in Section VIII.J. below). A Participant whose death occurs before the establishment of the Target Award for a Performance Cycle and the performance goals for the Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable) will not receive an award for that Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable).
(iii)    Permanent Disability:
If a Participant's employment with Staples and each of its
Affiliates is terminated due to permanent disability before the end of the Performance Cycle but after the establishment of the Target Award and the performance goals for the Participant for the Performance Cycle, then the Participant will be eligible for a prorated award calculated by multiplying the Participant's approved award by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of days the Participant was employed by Staples or an Affiliate during the applicable Performance Cycle and the denominator of which will be the total number of days in such Performance Cycle; provided however, if the Plan Years within the Performance Cycle have separate performance goals, then the Participant will be eligible for an award for any Plan Years ended before the Plan Year in which the Participant is terminated and in addition, if the Participant's termination occurs after the establishment of the Target Award for the Participant for the Performance Cycle and the performance goals for the Participant for the Plan Year of termination, the Participant will be eligible for a prorated award for the Plan Year in which the Participant is terminated calculated by multiplying the Participant's approved award for such Plan Year by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of days from the beginning of the Plan Year through the date of the Participant's termination and the denominator of which will be the total number of days in that Plan Year. A Participant whose termination occurs before the establishment of the Target Award for a Performance Cycle and the performance goals for the Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable) will not receive an award for that Performance Cycle (or Plan Year, as applicable).
C.    Change in Control
If a Change in Control of Staples occurs while a Participant is employed by Staples or an Affiliate and prior to the determination by the Committee whether payment of an award has been earned under this Plan, then the Committee shall authorize payment of each such outstanding award in an amount equal to the greater of (x) 100% of the Participant's Target Award for the Performance Cycle, or (y) the amount determined to have been earned by the Participant under the award based upon achievement of the performance goals if:
(i)    At the time the Change in Control is deemed to occur, the Participant:
(A)
Is not offered employment with the Surviving Corporation (or is not allowed to continue his or her employment, if the Surviving Corporation is Staples) or an entity directly or indirectly controlled by the Surviving Corporation in a position (1) in which the title, employment duties and responsibilities, conditions of employment, and the level of compensation and benefits are at least equivalent to those in effect during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Change in Control, and (2) that does not involve a relocation of the Participant's principal place of employment of more than an additional 50 miles from the Participant's primary residence at the time of the Change in Control; or
(B)
Does not accept (or continue) employment with the Surviving Corporation or an entity directly or indirectly controlled by the Surviving Corporation (regardless of position, compensation or location) (other than as a result of retirement); or
(ii)    Within one year following the date of the Change in Control, the Participant either:
(A)    Is discharged without Cause; or
(B)    Resigns or retires because his or her title or employment duties and responsibilities are diminished, his or her conditions of employment are adversely changed, the level of his or her compensation and benefits are reduced, or his or her principal place of employment is relocated by more than an additional 50 miles from his or her primary residence at the time of the Change in Control.
D.    Definitions
For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(i)
A Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if (A) any person, as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) (other than Staples, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Staples, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of Staples in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of stock of Staples), is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Staples representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities (other than pursuant to a merger or consolidation described in part (1) or (2) of clause (C) below); (B) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of Staples (as of the date hereof, the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Staples' stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors of Staples, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of this Plan, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; (C) the stockholders of Staples approve a merger or consolidation of Staples with any other corporation, and such merger or consolidation is consummated other than (1) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of Staples outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 75% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of Staples or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Staples (or similar transaction) in which no person (as defined above) acquires more than 30% of the combined voting power of Staples' then outstanding securities; or (D) the stockholders of Staples approve an agreement for the sale or disposition by Staples of all or substantially all of Staples' assets, and such sale or disposition is consummated.
(ii)
Surviving Corporation shall mean (x) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to clause (A) or clause (B) of the above definition of Change in Control, Staples; (y) in the case of Change in Control pursuant to clause (C) of the above definition of Change in Control, the surviving or resulting corporation in such merger or consolidation; and (z) in the case of a Change in Control pursuant to Clause (D) of the above definition of Change in Control, the entity acquiring the majority of the assets being sold or disposed of by Staples.
(iii)
Cause, as determined by Staples or the Surviving Corporation (which determination shall be conclusive), shall mean:
(A)
Willful failure by the Participant to substantially perform his or her duties with Staples or the Surviving Corporation (other than any failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness); provided, however, that Staples or the Surviving Corporation has given the Participant a written demand for substantial performance, which specifically identifies the areas in which the Participant's performance is substandard, and the Participant has not cured such failure within 30 days after delivery of the demand. No act or failure to act on the Participant's part will be deemed willful unless the Participant
acted or failed to act without a good faith or reasonable belief that his or her conduct was in Staples' or the Surviving Corporation's best interest; or
(B)
Breach by the Participant of any provision of any employment, consulting, advisory, proprietary information, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or other similar agreement between the Participant and Staples or the Surviving Corporation, including, without limitation, the Proprietary and Confidential Information Agreement and/or the Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement; or
(C)
Violation by the Participant of the Code of Ethics; or
(D)
The Participant's engagement in intentional deceitful act(s) that results in (1) an improper personal benefit, or (2) injury to Staples or the Surviving Corporation; or
(E)
The Participant's engagement in fraud or willful misconduct (not acting in good faith or with reasonable belief that conduct was in the best interests of Staples or the Surviving Corporation) that significantly contributes to Staples or the Surviving Corporation preparing a material financial restatement, other than a restatement of financial statements that became materially inaccurate because of revisions to generally accepted accounting principles; or
(F)
Failure by the Participant to devote his or her full working time to the affairs of Staples or the Surviving Corporation except as may be authorized in writing by Staples' or the Surviving Corporation's CEO or other authorized official of Staples or the Surviving Corporation; or
(G)
The Participant's engagement in business other than the business of Staples or the Surviving Corporation except as may be authorized in writing by Staples' or the Surviving Corporation's CEO or other authorized official of Staples or the Surviving Corporation; or
(H)
The Participant's engagement in misconduct, which is demonstrably and materially injurious to Staples or the Surviving Corporation.
For purposes of the definition of Cause contained in Section III.D.(iii) and Section VI. regarding forfeiture and recovery for Misconduct (as defined therein), any reference therein to Staples (other than with respect to defining the Board of Directors) shall also include any entity that Staples directly or indirectly controls.
E.    Employment Requirement
Except as set forth in Section III.A., Section III.B. or Section III.C., a Participant must be employed by Staples or the relevant Affiliate as of the last day of the Performance Cycle in order to be eligible for payment of an award for that Performance Cycle. If the employment of a Participant terminates during a Performance Cycle for any reason other than as specified in Section III.A., Section III.B. or Section III.C, no award will be paid to the Participant for that Performance Cycle.
IV.    Performance Goals
A.
General
Each award made under this Plan shall be subject to performance conditions. It is intended that
awards made to Participants who are, or who are designated by the Committee as potentially being at the end of a Performance Cycle, a covered employee for purposes of Internal Revenue Code (Code) Section 162(m) will in form and in operation comply with all applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m), but the Committee reserves the right to make awards to covered employees that in form or operation do not comply with Code Section 162(m). Any award made to an associate who is or is designated as a covered employee and that is intended by the Committee to be tax-deductible for purposes of Code Section 162(m) shall be subject to stockholder approval of this Plan, including the business criteria set forth in Section IV.B. upon which performance goals may be established by the Committee. The requirements of Code Section 162(m) may (but are not required to) be applied by the Committee in whole or in part to Participants who are not covered employees under Code Section 162(m), or the Committee may apply other performance goals or other conditions to awards made to Participants who are not covered employees in a manner consistent with the purposes of this Plan.
B.
Rules Applicable to Covered Employees
Within 90 days after the beginning of a Performance Cycle, or each Plan Year contained within a Performance Cycle if separate performance goals are set for each such Plan Year, the Committee will establish in writing one or more objective performance goals applicable to awards for that Performance Cycle, or Plan Year if separate performance goals are set for each Plan Year in the Performance Cycle, at a time when the outcome of those goals is substantially uncertain. The performance goals for each Performance Cycle or Plan Year will be based on one or more of the following business criteria: sales, earnings per share, return on net assets, return on equity, adjusted operating profit, free cash flow, total shareholder return, net income, operating income, and customer service levels. Compensation payable to covered employees is intended to be payable solely on account of attainment of one or more of such performance goals. The performance goals may apply to an entire Performance Cycle or may be different for each Plan Year contained within a Performance Cycle and may vary among Participants. Performance goals may be expressed (when applicable) in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular business criteria, or the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease of the business criteria. Performance goals may be applied to the performance of Staples as a whole, or to the performance of an Affiliate, division, or business unit of Staples, or an individual associate, or may be applied to the performance of Staples, an Affiliate, division, business unit, or individual associate relative to a market index, a group of other companies, or a combination thereof. In addition, customer service target levels will be based on pre-determined tests of customer service levels, including without limitation scores on blind test (mystery) shopping, customer comment card statistics, customer relations statistics (e.g., number of customer complaints), delivery response levels or customer satisfaction surveys conducted by a third party. The Committee may determine that special one-time or extraordinary gains, losses and/or events, including without limitation as a result of certain acquisitions or divestitures and changes in accounting principles, should or should not be included in determining whether such performance objectives have been met.
If more than one performance goal is established for a Performance Cycle or a Plan Year within a Performance Cycle, the Committee shall also set the relative weighting of the performance goals for such Performance Cycle or for each such Plan Year. The performance goals and relative weighting of performance goals may vary from Performance Cycle to Performance Cycle, from Plan Year to Plan Year and among Participants. For each performance goal of a Performance Cycle or a Plan Year there must be a minimum level of performance that is required to be achieved such that if the threshold is not attained, no portion of the award will be credited to the Participant with respect to that goal for that Performance Cycle or Plan Year. The maximum amount payable to a Participant with respect to any award is $7 million for each Plan Year within a Performance Cycle.
The communication of an award need not be made within the first 90 days of the Performance Cycle or Plan Year as long as the Committee has taken the actions described in this Section IV and the other applicable requirements of Code Section 162(m) are satisfied.
C.
Target Awards
For each Participant for whom an award is made, the Committee will establish a Target Award during the first 90 days of the Performance Cycle relating to that award. Once established, the Target Award shall remain fixed for the balance of that Performance Cycle. Target Awards may be expressed as a fixed dollar amount or a percentage (including multiples) of the base salary of a Participant determined at the time that the Target Award is established. The percentages or dollar amounts will be determined by the Committee based on the Participant's position and responsibilities and may vary among Participants. If separate performance goals are set for each Plan Year within a Performance Cycle, then the Target Award for each Plan Year will be the Target Award for the Performance Cycle multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of Plan Years in that Performance Cycle.
V.    Payment Calculations and Committee Certification
At the end of the Performance Cycle, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, to be paid to each Participant based on the extent that the performance goals established for the Participant for the Performance Cycle, or each Plan Year within the Performance Cycle, were achieved and shall authorize payment by Staples to the Participant. To determine the amount of payment for a Performance Cycle for which separate performance goals were set for each Plan Year within that Performance Cycle, the Committee will add the amounts it determines to pay in relation to the performance goals achieved for each Plan Year and (subject to the other provisions of this Plan, including Section III.A., Section III.B., Section VI., and Section VII.) pay that sum. In measuring the achievement of performance goals for any Performance Cycle or Plan Year and calculating any payment at the end of the applicable Performance Cycle, unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in the award agreement, awards will be linearly interpolated between the percentages set forth in the award agreement based upon actual results as determined by the Committee. Payments shall be made in cash, including by check or electronic deposit, in accordance with this Section V.
Prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in Section III.D. above), the Committee may exercise its discretion in a uniform and non-discriminatory manner for similarly situated Participants to reduce (but not increase) any award otherwise payable under this Plan in accordance with objective or subjective factors if necessary or appropriate to limit the amount payable under an award to an amount consistent with the purposes of this Plan and the intended economic benefits of participation in this Plan. The exercise of negative discretion with respect to one Participant shall not be permitted to result in an increase in the amount payable to another Participant.
The Committee shall certify the achievement of the performance goals in writing prior to making any payment of an award that was granted to an associate designated as a covered employee for purposes of Code Section 162(m).
Subject to the rules regarding forfeiture and repayment for Misconduct described in Section VI., the Dodd-Frank Clawback described in Section VII., and the rules regarding deferral of payment and amendment and termination of this Plan described in Section VIII., payment of any earned award will be made in a lump sum within 90 days of the earlier of the Participant's death or the end of the Performance Cycle established for such award; provided, however, in the event that it is not administratively feasible to make payment at that time, distribution may be made at a later date within the same calendar year that includes the last day
of the Performance Cycle (or the Participant's death, as the case may be) as determined in the discretion of the Committee.
VI.    Forfeiture and Recovery for Misconduct
A.
Right of Recovery
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of Staples (or its authorized designee, the Board) determines during the Recovery Period (as defined in this Section VI.A. below) that a Participant has engaged in any of the conduct set forth in clauses (B) through (E) of Section III.D.(iii), which determination shall be conclusive (Misconduct), the Board, subject to the limitations set forth in this Section VI., may in its sole discretion (1) terminate such Participant's participation in this Plan, or with respect to any award under this Plan, and treat any outstanding award as forfeited, (2) require forfeiture, in whole or in part, of payment of any award that has been previously approved by the Committee for payment under this Plan which remains in whole or in part unpaid, and/or (3) demand that the Participant pay to Staples in cash the amount described in Section VI.B.; provided, however, that in the event the Board determines during the Recovery Period that the Participant engaged in Misconduct as described in clause (E) of Section III.D.(iii) (Restatement Misconduct), the Board shall in all circumstances, in addition to any other recovery action taken, require forfeiture and demand repayment pursuant hereto.
Recovery Period means (1) if the Misconduct relates to Restatement Misconduct, or the Misconduct consists of acts or omissions relating to Staples' financial matters that in the discretion of the Board are reasonably unlikely to be discovered prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the Misconduct occurred and the completion of the outside audit of Staples' annual financial statements, the period during which the Participant is employed by Staples and the period ending 18 months after the Participant's last day of employment; (2) if the Misconduct relates to the breach of any agreement between the Participant and Staples, the term of the agreement and the period ending six months following the expiration of the agreement, and (3) in all other cases, the period during which the Participant is employed by Staples and the period ending six months after the Participant's last day of employment. If during the Recovery Period the Board gives written notice to the Participant of potential Misconduct, the Recovery Period shall be extended for such reasonable time as the Board may specify is appropriate for it to make a final determination of Misconduct and seek enforcement of any of its remedies described above. Staples' rights pursuant to this Section VI. shall terminate on the effective date of a Change in Control and no Recovery Period shall extend beyond that date except with respect to any Participant for which the Board prior to such Change in Control gave written notice to such Participant of potential Misconduct.
For purposes of administratively enforcing its rights under this Section VI.A., during any period for which potential Misconduct has been identified by Staples, the Board may (1) suspend such Participant's participation in this Plan, or with respect to any award under this Plan, or (2) to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A, temporarily withhold, in whole or in part, payment of any award that has been previously approved by the Board for payment under this Plan which remains in whole or in part unpaid.
B.
Amount of Recovery
With respect to Misconduct described in Sections III.D.(iii)(B) (breach of agreement) and Section III.D.(iii)(C) (violation of Code of Ethics), and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Plan, the Board may recover from the Participant the amount of any payments made to the Participant under this Plan during the last 12 months of employment with Staples.
With respect to Misconduct described in Section III.D.(iii)(D) (intentional deceitful acts), and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Plan, the Board may recover from the Participant the greater of (A) the amount paid to the Participant with respect to any award made under this Plan with a Performance Cycle that includes any period during which the Misconduct occurred, or with a Performance Cycle which was directly impacted by the Misconduct, or (B) the amount determined by the Board in its sole discretion to represent the financial impact of the Misconduct upon Staples; provided, however, that such recovery amount shall be reduced by the value of any forfeited outstanding awards under this Plan (value to be determined by the Target Award for such awards) and any amounts recovered from the Participant under Staples' cash bonus plans and other short term or long term incentive plans as a result of such Misconduct.
With respect to Restatement Misconduct, and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Plan, the Board shall seek to recover the entire amount paid to the Participant with respect to any award made under this Plan with a Performance Cycle that includes any portion of a fiscal year that is the subject of an accounting restatement relating to the Misconduct (the Restated Fiscal Year). In the Board's discretion, it may also seek to recover the entire amount paid to the Participant with respect to any other award made under this Plan with a Performance Cycle that includes any portion of the fiscal year following the Restated Fiscal Year.
The term recover or recovered shall include, but shall not be limited to, any right of set-off, reduction, recoupment, off-set, forfeiture, or other attempt by Staples to withhold or claim payment of an award or any proceeds thereof. Staples' right of forfeiture and recovery of awards shall not limit any other right or remedy available to Staples for a Participant's Misconduct, whether in law or equity, including but not limited to injunctive relief, terminating the Participant's employment with Staples, or taking other legal action against the Participant.
The amount that may be recovered under this Section VI. shall be determined on a gross basis without reduction for taxes paid or payable by a Participant.
VII.    Dodd-Frank Clawback
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with Section 10D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any regulations promulgated, or national securities exchange listing conditions adopted, with respect thereto (collectively, the Clawback Requirements), if the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirements under the securities laws, then the Participant shall return to the Company, or forfeit if not yet paid, the amount of any award received under this Plan during the three-year period preceding the date on which the Company is required to prepare the accounting restatement, based on the erroneous data, in excess of what would have been paid to the Participant under the accounting restatement as determined by the Committee in accordance with the Clawback Requirements and any policy adopted by the Committee pursuant to the Clawback Requirements.
VIII.    General
A.
Plan Administration
This Plan will be administered by the Committee. The Committee will have complete discretionary authority and control with respect to the administration of this Plan, including the authority to determine the term of a Performance Cycle and whether performance goals will be set for the Performance Cycle or each Plan Year in the Performance Cycle; the authority to determine Target Awards, select business criteria and
establish performance goals; to adopt rules or regulations regarding the treatment of awards in the event a Participant's leave of absence during a Performance Cycle or a Participant's hiring, promotion or transfer during a Performance Cycle; to adopt and repeal other rules and regulations relating to this Plan; and to make decisions and interpretations regarding the provisions of this Plan, including determining to what extent, if any, specific items are to be considered in the relevant business criteria or performance goals for any particular business, the satisfaction of performance goals and the payment of awards under this Plan. The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan or any award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry this Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. All decisions by the Committee shall be made in the Committee's sole discretion, and shall be final and binding on all persons having or claiming any interest in this Plan or in any award. The Committee may delegate ministerial duties under this Plan to one or more administrators who may be associates of Staples or an Affiliate. Except for the administration of awards granted to covered employees, the Committee may delegate non-ministerial duties to any officer of Staples or an Affiliate. No director or associate acting pursuant to the authority delegated by the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination relating to or under this Plan made in good faith.
B.
Employment at Will
This Plan does not create an express or implied contract of employment between Staples or any Affiliate and a Participant. Staples (and where applicable, the Affiliates) and the Participants each retain the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason.
C.
Amendment and Termination of Plan
Staples reserves the right, in its sole discretion, at any time prior to actual payment of awards to amend, terminate or discontinue this Plan in whole or in part.
This Plan may be amended or terminated by either the Board of Directors of Staples or the Committee, provided that (1) subject to Section VIII.F. (regarding Code Section 409A compliance), no amendment or termination of this Plan after the end of a Performance Cycle may adversely affect the rights of Participants with respect to their awards for that Performance Cycle, and (2) no amendment which would require stockholder approval under Code Section 162(m) may be effected without such stockholder approval. For avoidance of doubt, neither the application of Section VI. regarding forfeiture and repayment for Misconduct, the application of Section VII. regarding the Dodd-Frank Clawback, nor the exercise of negative discretion as described in Section V. shall be deemed to be an amendment of this Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section VIII.C., any termination of this Plan that provides for an acceleration of the time or form of payment of an award must comply with the terms and conditions regarding plan terminations and liquidations as set forth in Code Section 409A and Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(j)(ix), which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this Section VIII.C.
D.
Rights are Non-Assignable
All awards and any payments due hereunder are non-assignable and non-transferable. Neither a Participant nor any beneficiary or other person shall have any right to assign the right to receive payments hereunder, in whole or in part, which, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
E.
Withholding
All required deductions, including without limitation with respect to federal, state or local taxes, will be withheld from the awards prior to distribution.
F.
Code Section 409A Compliance
Awards under this Plan are intended to comply with Code Section 409A, and all awards shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with Code Section 409A and Treasury Regulations and other guidance issued thereunder. Generally, this Plan is intended to comply with Code Section 409A on the basis that payment distributions are to be made upon the earlier of a Participant's death or at a specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) stated in this Plan or in the relevant award at the date of deferral of compensation, without regard to other distribution events described in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A) and without application of the six month delay for specified employees described in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B). Notwithstanding such intention, to the extent required by Code Section 409A, any reference to permanent disability shall be interpreted to mean disability as defined for purposes of Code Section 409A. Similarly, any reference to termination of employment, discharge, resignation, or retirement shall not be sufficient to constitute a payment event for purposes of Code Section 409A unless such event also constitutes a separation from service as defined by Code Section 409A.
If a Participant is a specified employee as defined in Code Section 409A (and as applied according to procedures of Staples and its Affiliates) as of the Participant's separation from service, to the extent any payment under this Plan constitutes deferred compensation (after taking into account any applicable exemptions from Code Section 409A) that is payable upon a separation from service, then, to the extent required by Code Section 409A, no payments due under this Plan may be made until the earlier of: (1) the first day of the seventh month following the Participant's separation from service, or (2) the Participant's date of death; provided, however, that any payments delayed during this six-month period shall be paid in the aggregate in a lump sum, with interest from the scheduled payment date to the date of actual payment at an annual rate equal to the prime rate as set forth in the Eastern edition of The Wall Street Journal on the business day immediately preceding Participant's date of separation from service, on the first day of the seventh month following the Participant's separation from service.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan or any award to the contrary, in the event that the Committee determines that any award may not or does not comply with Code Section 409A, the Board of Directors of Staples or the Committee may adopt such amendments to this Plan and the affected award (without Participant consent) or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A. If this Plan or an award fails to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, neither Staples nor any of its Affiliates shall have any liability for any tax, penalty or interest imposed on a Participant by Code Section 409A, and the Participant shall have no recourse against Staples or any of its Affiliates for payment of any such tax, penalty, or interest imposed by Code Section 409A.
G.
Deferral of Payment of Awards
At the time of grant of an award (or at such earlier or later time as the Committee determines appropriate in light of the provisions of Code Section 409A), the Committee may permit a Participant who is otherwise eligible to participate in a non-qualified deferred compensation plan sponsored by Staples or an Affiliate to defer all or a part of any payment that might otherwise be payable with respect to an award under this Plan under the terms and conditions of such non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
In addition to any deferral of payment required for payment of awards to any specified employee
under Code Section 409A, if the payment of any award in any year could, in the Committee's opinion, when considered with a Participant's other compensation, result in Staples' inability to deduct any portion of such award payment because the Participant is or is expected to be a covered employee for purposes of Code Section 162(m), then to the extent permitted under Code Section 409A, the Committee in its sole discretion may defer the payment date applicable to an award to the first calendar year in which such payment would not be nondeductible be reason of Code Section 162(m). Any such deferral shall not be deemed to be an amendment of this Plan for purposes of Section VIII.C.
H.
Unfunded Plan
It is intended that this Plan be an unfunded plan for federal tax purposes and that it not constitute an employee benefit pension plan for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). To the extent that this Plan is subject to ERISA, this Plan shall be administered as an unfunded employee pension plan benefiting a select group of management or highly compensated employees under the provisions of ERISA.
I.
Beneficiary
A Participant may file with the Committee a written designation of death beneficiary on such form as may be prescribed by the Committee and may, from time to time, amend or revoke such designation. If no death beneficiary is designated or the designated beneficiary fails to survive the Participant, the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate shall be deemed to be the Participant's death beneficiary. If the Participant lives in a community property state and the consent of the Participant's spouse or domestic partner is required by the laws of such state to designate a beneficiary, then any beneficiary designation by such a Participant must have the consent of the Participant's spouse or domestic partner, as applicable.
J.
Notice
All notices under this Plan or with respect to any award made hereunder shall be in writing and mailed or delivered by hand to Staples at its main office, Attention: Secretary, and to the Participant at his or her last known address on the employment records of Staples or at such other address as may be designated in writing by either of the parties to one another.
K.
Severability
If any provision of this Plan is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Plan shall not be affected but shall be applied as if the invalid or unenforceable provision had not been included in this Plan.
L.
Governing Law
The provisions of this Plan and all awards made hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to any applicable conflicts of law.
***
Approved by the Board of Directors on March 6, 2012, subject to stockholder approval.
Approved by Stockholders on June 4, 2012.

Exhibit 10.2
Staples, Inc.
Amended and Restated Executive Officer Incentive Plan
Fiscal Years 2012 - 2016
I.
    
Summary and Objectives
Staples, Inc. (Staples) has developed this Executive Officer Incentive Plan (the Incentive Plan) to provide opportunities for Plan Participants (as defined below) to earn financial rewards for their role in ensuring that Staples meets its annual performance targets. The Incentive Plan aims to align the interests of the Plan Participants with those of our shareholders. Bonus awards are based on actual results measured against pre-established company financial objectives. Bonus awards are intended to provide a reward to Plan Participants and supplement the base salary program.
II.
    
Term of Plan
The Incentive Plan will cover five fiscal years, beginning with the 2012 fiscal year (beginning January 29, 2012) and ending with the 2016 fiscal year (ending January 28, 2017). Each such fiscal year is referred to herein as a Plan Year.
III.
    
Eligibility
Provided that the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee) determines that Staples meets the applicable performance objectives for a particular Plan Year, as set forth below, and all other eligibility requirements are met, the following guidelines will be used to determine Plan Participants' bonus award eligibility. Except as set forth in Section III. D with respect to a Plan Participant's death, bonus awards are not guaranteed and will not be paid unless Staples meets the required objectives set forth in the Incentive Plan and the Committee authorizes the payment of bonus awards.
A.
    
General Eligibility Requirements
Each executive officer of Staples, within the meaning of the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, will be eligible to participate in the Incentive Plan, except that an executive officer whose employment terminates prior to the end of a Plan Year, other than as a result of permanent disability, death or retirement, will not be eligible to receive a bonus award under the Incentive Plan for that Plan Year (each a Plan Participant).
B.
    
Changes in Position
A Plan Participant who changes from one position to another will be eligible for a prorated bonus award as follows:
1.
    
A Plan Participant who transfers from an Incentive Plan eligible position into a position eligible for another bonus plan is eligible for a prorated bonus award under the Incentive Plan based on the number of days the associate was a Plan Participant during the applicable Plan Year. The associate's eligibility for a bonus for the new position, if any, will be determined in accordance with any applicable bonus plan for that position.
2.
    
A Plan Participant who changes from one Incentive Plan eligible position to another, through a promotion, transfer or demotion, is eligible for a prorated bonus award for each position based on the number of days the associate held such position during the applicable Plan Year.
C.
    
Leaves of Absence
A Plan Participant who is on a company-approved leave of absence in excess of 90 days during a Plan Year will not be eligible for a bonus award for the portion of his or her leave over 90 days unless otherwise approved by the Committee.
D.
    
Retirement, Disability or Death
Retirement
: If a Plan Participant terminates his or her employment after attaining age 55 and if at the time of such termination of employment the sum of the years of service (as determined by the Board of Directors of Staples) completed by the associate plus the associate's age is greater than or equal to 65, the associate will be eligible for a prorated bonus award based on the number of days the associate was employed by Staples during the applicable Plan Year.
Disability
: If a Plan Participant's employment is terminated due to permanent disability before the end of the Plan Year, the associate will be eligible for a prorated bonus award based on the number of days the associate was employed by Staples during the applicable Plan Year.
In each case described above, no prorated bonus will be paid unless all of the applicable requirements set forth in the Incentive Plan are met, including without limitation that the Committee determines that Staples meets the applicable performance objectives for a particular Plan Year and authorizes the payment of bonus awards.
Death
: If a Plan Participant's employment is terminated due to death before the end of the Plan Year, 100% of the Plan Participant's Target Award for such Plan Year will be paid within 60 days of such termination; provided, that if such termination occurs during the Plan Participant's first Plan Year under the Incentive Plan, the bonus award will be prorated based on the number of days the associate was employed by Staples during the applicable Plan Year, calculated as if the associate had been employed by Staples through the end of the Plan Year.
E.
    
Employment and Compliance
As described under General Eligibility Requirements, and except as set forth in Section III. D, a Plan Participant must be employed as of the last day of the Plan Year in order to be eligible for a bonus. If the employment of a Plan Participant terminates during a Plan Year for any reason other than retirement (as defined above), permanent disability or death, no bonus will be paid to the Plan Participant for that Plan Year.
In addition, a Plan Participant must comply with all applicable state and federal regulations and Staples' policies (the Compliance Requirements) in order to be eligible to receive a bonus award under the Incentive Plan. If a Plan Participant who is terminated after the end of a Plan Year, but before bonus awards for such Plan Year are distributed, for violating any of the Compliance Requirements will not be eligible to receive a bonus award for such Plan Year.
IV.
    
The Plan
Within 90 days after the beginning of each Plan Year, the Committee will establish specific performance objectives for the payment of bonus awards for that Plan Year. The performance objectives for each Plan Year will be based on one or more of the following measures: sales, earnings per share, return on net assets, return on equity, adjusted operating profit, free cash flow, total shareholder return, net income, operating income and customer service levels. These performance objectives are intended to establish the benchmark of success for Staples. The Committee may determine that special one-time or extraordinary gains or losses, including without limitation as a result of certain acquisitions or divestitures and changes in accounting principles, should or should not be included in determining whether such performance objectives have been met. In addition, customer service target levels will be based on pre-determined tests of customer service levels, including without limitation scores on blind test (mystery) shopping, customer comment card statistics, customer relations statistics (e.g., number of customer complaints), delivery response levels or customer satisfaction surveys conducted by a third party.
For each Plan Year, a specified percentage (which may vary from Plan Year to Plan Year) of each Target Award (as defined below) will be based upon each of the performance objectives selected by the Committee for that Plan Year. For each of the performance objectives, a specified percentage of the portion of the Target Award that is based on that particular performance objective will be paid based on the level of performance achieved. Each performance objective has a threshold performance level that must be achieved for any of the bonus award to be paid for such objective. Except as set forth in Section III. D with respect to a Plan Participant's death, no bonus will be paid under the Incentive Plan for a Plan Year if the minimum earnings per share goal established for such Plan Year is not achieved, regardless of whether any other performance objective is achieved.
The maximum bonus award payable to an executive officer for any Plan Year is $4 million. In addition, the Committee presently intends to limit bonus awards to 200% of a Plan Participant's Target Award.
V.
    
Payment Calculations
Each Plan Participant will have a target bonus award (a Target Award) for each Plan Year. Target Awards will be expressed as a percentage of the actual base salary paid to the Plan Participant during the Plan Year. The percentages will be determined by the Committee based on the Plan Participant's job level and responsibilities and may vary for different officers or business units.
At the end of the Plan Year, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, to be paid to each Plan Participant based on the extent that the performance goals established for the Plan Participant were achieved and shall authorize payment by Staples to the Plan Participant; provided that the Committee may use negative discretion to decrease, but not increase, the amount of any bonus award otherwise payable to a Plan Participant.
Any bonus checks will be distributed to Plan Participants within 2 months following the end of the applicable Plan Year.
VI.
    
Plan Administration
A.
    
Administration
The Incentive Plan will be administered by the Committee. The Committee will have broad authority for determining target bonuses and selecting performance objectives, as described below; for adopting rules and regulations relating to the Incentive Plan; and for making decisions and interpretations regarding the provisions of the Incentive Plan, including determining to what extent, if any, specific items are to be counted in the relevant financial measures for any particular business, the satisfaction of performance objectives and the payment of awards under the Incentive Plan.
B.
    
Employment at Will
The Incentive Plan does not create an express or implied contract of employment between Staples and a Plan Participant. Both Staples and the Plan Participants retain the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason.
C.
    
Bonus Provisions (Amendments and Termination)
Bonuses are not earned or vested until actual payments are made. Staples reserves the right at any time prior to actual payment of bonus awards to amend, terminate or discontinue the Incentive Plan in whole or in part whenever it is considered necessary.
The Incentive Plan may be amended or terminated by either the Board of Directors or the Committee, provided that (1) no amendment or termination of the Incentive Plan after the end of a Plan Year may adversely affect the rights of Plan Participants with respect to their bonus awards for that Plan Year, and (2) no amendment which would require stockholder approval under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code may be effected without such stockholder approval.
D.
    
Rights are Non-Assignable
Neither the Plan Participant nor any beneficiary nor any other person shall have any right to assign the right to receive payments hereunder, in whole or in part, which payments are non-assignable and non-transferable, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
E.
    
Withholding
All required deductions, including without limitation with respect to federal, state or local taxes, will be withheld from the bonus awards prior to distribution.
VII.
    
Forfeiture and Recovery for Misconduct
A.
    
Right of Recovery
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Incentive Plan to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of Staples (or its authorized designee, the Board) determines during the Recovery Period (as defined below) that a Plan Participant has engaged in Misconduct (as defined below), the Board, subject to the limitations set forth in this Section VII., may in its sole discretion (1) terminate such Plan Participant's participation in the Incentive Plan, or with respect to any award under the Incentive Plan, and treat any outstanding award as forfeited, (2) require forfeiture, in whole or in part, of payment of any award that has been previously approved for payment under this Incentive Plan which remains in whole or in part unpaid, and/or (3) demand that the Plan Participant pay to Staples in cash the amount described in Section VII.B.; provided, however, that in the event the Board determines during the Recovery Period that the Plan Participant engaged in Misconduct as described in clause (D) of the definition of Misconduct) (Restatement Misconduct), the Board shall in all circumstances, in addition to any other recovery action taken, require forfeiture and demand repayment pursuant hereto.
Recovery Period means (1) if the Misconduct relates to Restatement Misconduct, or the Misconduct consists of acts or omissions relating to Staples' financial matters that in the discretion of the Board are reasonably unlikely to be discovered prior to the end of the fiscal year in which the Misconduct occurred and the completion of the outside audit of Staples' annual financial statements, the period during which the Plan Participant is employed by Staples and the period ending 18 months after the Plan Participant's last day of employment; (2) if the Misconduct relates to the breach of any agreement between the Plan Participant and Staples, the term of the agreement and the period ending six months following the expiration of the agreement, and (3) in all other cases, the period during which the Plan Participant is employed by Staples and the period ending six months after the Plan Participant's last day of employment. If during the Recovery Period the Board gives written notice to the Plan Participant of potential Misconduct, the Recovery Period shall be extended for such reasonable time as the Board may specify is appropriate for it to make a final determination of Misconduct and seek enforcement of any of its remedies described above. Staples' rights pursuant to this Section VII. shall terminate on the effective date of a Change in Control (as defined in the Staples, Inc. 2010 Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan) and no Recovery Period shall extend beyond that date except with respect to any Plan Participant for which the Board prior to such Change in Control gave written notice to such Plan Participant of potential Misconduct.
For purposes of administratively enforcing its rights under this Section VII., during any period for which
potential Misconduct has been identified by Staples, the Board may (1) suspend such Plan Participant's participation in the Incentive Plan, or with respect to any award under the Incentive Plan, or (2) temporarily withhold, in whole or in part, payment of any award that has been previously approved by the Board for payment under this Incentive Plan which remains in whole or in part unpaid.
B.
    
Amount of Recovery
With respect to Misconduct described in clause (A) of the definition of Misconduct (breach of agreement) and clause (B) of such definition (violation of Code of Ethics), and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Incentive Plan, the Board may recover from the Plan Participant the amount of any payments made to the Plan Participant under this Incentive Plan during the last 12 months of employment with Staples.
With respect to Misconduct described in clause (C) of the definition of Misconduct (intentional deceitful acts), and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Incentive Plan, the Board may recover from the Plan Participant the greater of (1) the amount paid to the Plan Participant with respect to any award made under this Incentive Plan with a fiscal year that includes any period during which the Misconduct occurred, or with a fiscal year which was directly impacted by the Misconduct, or (2) the amount determined by the Board in its sole discretion to represent the financial impact of the Misconduct upon Staples; provided, however, that such recovery amount shall be reduced by the value of any forfeited outstanding awards under this Incentive Plan (value to be determined by the Target Award for such awards) and any amounts recovered from the Plan Participant under Staples' cash bonus plans and other short term or long term incentive plans as a result of such Misconduct.
With respect to Restatement Misconduct, and in addition to its right to effect a termination of participation and a forfeiture of outstanding awards under this Incentive Plan, the Board shall seek to recover the entire amount paid to the Plan Participant with respect to any award made under this Incentive Plan in the twenty-four (24) month period following the first public issuance of the financial statements that are the subject of an accounting restatement relating to the Misconduct.
The term recover or recovered shall include, but shall not be limited to, any right of set-off, reduction, recoupment, off-set, forfeiture, or other attempt by Staples to withhold or claim payment of an award or any proceeds thereof. Staples' right of forfeiture and recovery of awards shall not limit any other right or remedy available to Staples for a Plan Participant's Misconduct, whether in law or equity, including but not limited to injunctive relief, terminating the Plan Participant's employment with Staples, or taking other legal action against the Plan Participant.
The amount that may be recovered under this Section VII. shall be determined on a gross basis without reduction for taxes paid or payable by a Plan Participant.
C.
    
Definition of Misconduct
Misconduct, as determined by Staples (which determination shall be conclusive), shall mean:
(A)
    
Breach by the Plan Participant of any provision of any employment, consulting, advisory, proprietary information, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or other similar agreement between the Plan Participant and Staples, including, without limitation, the Proprietary and Confidential Information Agreement and/or the Non-Compete and Non-Solicitation Agreement; or
(B)
    
Violation by the Plan Participant of the Code of Ethics; or
(C)
    
The Plan Participant's engagement in intentional deceitful act(s) that results in (i) an improper personal benefit, or (ii) injury to Staples; or
(D)
    
The Plan Participant's engagement in fraud or willful misconduct (not acting in good faith or with reasonable belief that conduct was in the best interests of Staples) that significantly contributes to Staples preparing a material financial restatement, other than a restatement of financial statements that became materially inaccurate because of revisions to generally accepted accounting principles.
For purposes of this Section VII. regarding forfeiture and recovery for Misconduct, any reference therein to Staples (other than with respect to defining the Board of Directors) shall also include any entity that Staples directly or indirectly controls.
VII.    Dodd-Frank Clawback
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Incentive Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with Section 10D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any regulations promulgated, or national securities exchange listing conditions adopted, with respect thereto (collectively, the Clawback Requirements), if the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirements under the securities laws, then the Participant shall return to the Company, or forfeit if not yet paid, the amount of any award received under this Plan during the three-year period preceding the date on which the Company is required to prepare the accounting restatement, based on the erroneous data, in excess of what would have been paid to the Participant under the accounting restatement as determined by the Committee in accordance with the Clawback Requirements and any policy adopted by the Committee pursuant to the Clawback Requirements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on March 6, 2012, subject to stockholder approval.
Approved by Stockholders on June 4, 2012.

Exhibit 10.3
STAPLES, INC.
2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
1.
    
Purpose
.
(a)
    
The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the Company and its Designated Subsidiaries and Designated Affiliates with an opportunity to purchase Common Stock through accumulated Contributions.
(b)
    
This Plan includes two components: a Code Section 423 Component (the 
423 Component
) and a non-Code Section 423 Component (the 
Non-423 Component
). It is the intention of the Company to have the 423 Component qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code. The provisions of the 423 Component, accordingly, shall be construed so as to extend and limit participation in a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis consistent with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code. In addition, this Plan authorizes the grant of options under the Non-423 Component, which does not qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code; such options granted under the Non-423 Component shall be granted pursuant to rules, procedures or sub-plans adopted by the Administrator designed to achieve tax, securities laws or other objectives for Eligible Employees and the Company. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Non-423 Component will operate and be administered in the same manner as the 423 Component. Offerings intended to be made under the Non-423 Component will be designated as such by the Administrator at or prior to the time of such Offering.
(c)
    
If a Participant transfers employment from the Company or any Designated Subsidiary participating in the 423 Component to a Designated Affiliate participating in the Non-423 Component, he or she shall immediately cease to participate in the 423 Component; however, any Contributions made for the Purchase Period in which such transfer occurs shall be transferred to the Non-423 Component, and such Participant shall immediately join the then current Offering under the Non-423 Component upon the same terms and conditions in effect for his or her participation in the Plan, except for such modifications as may be required by applicable law or otherwise applicable for Participants in such Designated Affiliates. A Participant who transfers employment from a Designated Affiliate participating in the Non-423 Component to the Company or any Designated Subsidiary participating in the 423 Component shall remain a Participant in the Non-423 Component until the earlier of (i) the end of the current Offering Period under the Non-423 Component, or (ii) the Enrollment Date of the first Offering Period in which he or she participates following such transfer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may establish different rules to govern transfers of employment between companies participating in the 423 Component and the Non-423 Component, consistent with the applicable requirements of Section 423 of the Code.
2.
    
Definitions
.
(a)
    
Administrator
 means the Board or the Committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan pursuant to Section 14.
(b)
    
Affiliate
 means (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly, is controlled by, controls or is under common control with, the Company or (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, in either case as determined by the Administrator, whether now or hereafter existing (which, for avoidance of doubt, shall include any Subsidiary).
(c)
    
Applicable Laws
 means the requirements relating to the administration of equity-based awards under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any foreign country or jurisdiction where options are, or will be, granted under the Plan.
(d)
    
Board
 means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(e)
    
Change in Control
 means the occurrence of any of the following events:
(i) any person, as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Company's stock), is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities (other than pursuant to a merger or consolidation described in clause (1) or (2) of subsection (iii) below);
(ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (as of the date hereof, the 
Incumbent Board
) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board;
(iii) the Company's stockholders approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, and such merger or consolidation is consummated, other than (1) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no person (as defined above) acquires more than thirty percent (30%) of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(iv) the Company's stockholders approve an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, and such sale or disposition is consummated.
    
For the avoidance of doubt, a transaction will not constitute a Change in Control if its sole purpose is either to change the state of the Company's incorporation or to create a holding company that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by the persons who held the Company's securities immediately before such transaction.
(f)
    
Code
 means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or U.S. Treasury Regulation thereunder will include such section or regulation and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
(g)
    
Committee
 means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws, the Committee on Employee Benefit Plans as constituted pursuant to the terms of the Company's 401(k) Plan, in each case unless otherwise determined by the Board.
(h)
    
Common Stock
 means the common stock of the Company.
(i)
    
Company
 means Staples, Inc, a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.
(j)
    
Compensation
 means an Eligible Employee's regular base straight time gross earnings (including payments for piece work in the case of employees of the American Identity division), commissions, sales rewards and other sales-related payments, exclusive of any other form of compensation including payments for incentive compensation, bonuses, overtime, shift premium, 13th/14th month payments or similar concepts under local law or any other similar compensation. The Administrator, in its discretion, may, on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis for each Offering, establish a different definition of Compensation for a subsequent Offering Period. Further, the Administrator shall have discretion to determine the application of this definition to Participants outside the United States.
(k)
    
Contributions
 means the payroll deductions, any other additional payments that the Administrator may permit to be made by a Participant and any alternative forms of contributions permitted under Section 6(f) to fund the exercise of options granted pursuant to the Plan.
(l)
    
Designated Affiliate
 means any Affiliate that has been designated by the Administrator from time to time in its sole discretion as eligible to participate in the Non-423 Component.
(m)
    
Designated Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary that has been designated by the Administrator from time to time in its sole discretion as eligible to participate in the 423 Component.
(n)
    
Director
 means a member of the Board.
(o)
    
Eligible Employee
 means a person treated as an employee of the Company or a Designated Subsidiary or Designated Affiliate for purposes of Section 423 of the Code. For purposes of the Plan, the employment relationship will be treated as continuing intact where a Participant transfers employment between the Company, Designated Subsidiaries and/or Designated Affiliates and while an individual is on sick leave or other leave of absence that the Employer approves or is legally protected under Applicable Laws. Where a period of leave of absence exceeds three (3) months and the individual's right to reemployment is not guaranteed either by statute or by contract, the employment relationship will be deemed to have terminated three (3) months and one (1) day following the commencement of such leave. The Administrator, in its discretion, from time to time may, prior to an Enrollment Date for all options to be granted on such Enrollment Date in an Offering, determine (on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis or as otherwise permitted by Treasury Regulation Section 1.423-2 for options granted under the 423 Component) that the definition of Eligible Employee will or will not include an individual if he or she: (i) has not completed at least two (2) years of service since his or her last hire date (or such lesser period of time as may be determined by the Administrator in its discretion), (ii) customarily works not more than twenty (20) hours per week (or such lesser period of time as may be determined by the Administrator in its discretion), (iii) customarily works not more than five (5) months per calendar year (or such lesser period of time as may be determined by the Administrator in its discretion), (iv) is a highly compensated employee within the meaning of Section 414(q) of the Code, or (v) is a highly compensated employee within the meaning of Section 414(q) of the Code with compensation above a certain level or is an officer or subject to the disclosure requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. Under the 423 Component, each exclusion shall be applied with respect to an Offering in a manner complying with U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.423-2
(e)(2)(ii). A Participant shall be deemed to have ceased to be an Eligible Employee either upon an actual termination of employment or upon the corporation employing the Participant during an Offering Period ceasing to be an Affiliate of the Company, or if the Participant transfers to an Affiliate that is not a Designated Subsidiary or Designated Affiliate.
(p)
    
Employer
 means the Designated Subsidiary or Designated Affiliate that is the employer of the applicable Eligible Employee in accordance with the definition in subsection 2(o) above.
(q)
    
Enrollment Date
 means the first Trading Day of each Offering Period.
(r)
    
Exchange Act
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(s)
    
Exercise Date
 means the last Trading Day of each Purchase Period.
(t)
    
Fair Market Value
 means, as of any date and unless the Administrator determines otherwise, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
(i)
    
If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the NASDAQ Global Market, the NASDAQ Capital Market of the NASDAQ Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange, its Fair Market Value will be the closing sales price for such stock as quoted on such exchange or system on the date of determination (or if no sales were reported on that date, on the last Trading Day such sales were reported), as reported in
The Wall Street Journal
or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;
(ii)
    
If the Common Stock is regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, its Fair Market Value will be the mean between the high bid and low asked prices for the Common Stock on the date of determination (or if no bids and asks were reported on that date, as applicable, on the last Trading Day such bids and asks were reported), as reported in
The Wall Street Journal
or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable; or
(iii)
    
In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof will be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(u)
    
New Exercise Date
 means a new Exercise Date if the Administrator shortens any Offering Period then in progress.
(v)
    
Offering
 means an offer under the Plan of an option that may be exercised during an Offering Period as further described in Section 4. Unless otherwise specified by the Administrator, each Offering to the Eligible Employees of the Company, a Designated Subsidiary or a Designated Affiliate shall be deemed a separate Offering (the terms of which Offering under the Non-423 Component need not be identical), even if the dates and other terms of the applicable Offering Periods of each such Offering are identical and the provisions of the Plan will separately apply to each Offering. To the extent permitted by U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.423-2(a)(1), the terms of each separate Offering under the Section 423 Component need not be identical, provided that the terms of the Plan and an Offering together satisfy U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.423-2(a)(2) and (a)(3).
(w)
    
Offering Periods
 means the periods established in accordance with Section 4 during which an option granted pursuant to the Plan may be exercised on one or more Exercise Dates. The duration and timing of Offering Periods may be changed pursuant to Sections 4 and 21.
(x)
    
Parent
 means a parent corporation, whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
(y)
    
Participant
 means an Eligible Employee that participates in the Plan.
(z)
    
Plan
 means this Staples, Inc. 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, including both the 423 and Non-423 Components, as amended from time to time.
(aa)
    
Purchase Period
 means a period of time within an Offering Period, as may be specified by the Administrator in accordance with Section 4, generally beginning on the Enrollment Date and ending on an Exercise Date. An Offering Period may consist of one or more Purchase Periods.
(bb)
    
Purchase Price
 means an amount equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Enrollment Date or on the Exercise Date, whichever is lower; provided however, that the Purchase Price may be determined for subsequent Offering Periods by the Administrator subject to compliance with Section 423 of the Code or any successor rule or provision or any other applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule) or pursuant to Section 21.
(cc)
    
Subsidiary
 means a subsidiary corporation, whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
(dd)
    
Trading Day
 means a day on which the national stock exchange upon which the Common Stock is listed is open for trading.
(ee)
    
U.S. Treasury Regulations
 means Treasury regulations issued by the Department of Treasury under the Code. Reference to a specific Treasury Regulation or Section of the Code shall include such Treasury Regulation or Section and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such Section or regulation.
3.
    
Eligibility
.
(a)
    
General
. Unless otherwise provided in this Section 3 and subject to the requirements of Section 5, any Eligible Employee on a given Enrollment Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.
(b)
    
Non-U.S. Employees
. Employees who are citizens or residents of a non-U.S. jurisdiction (without regard to whether they also are citizens or residents of the United States or resident aliens within the meaning of Section 7701(b)(1)(A) of the Code) may be excluded from participation in the Plan or an Offering if the participation of such Employees is prohibited under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction or if complying with the laws of the applicable jurisdiction would cause the Plan or an Offering to violate Section 423 of the Code. Further, in the case of the Non-423 Component, Eligible Employees may be excluded from participation in the Plan or an Offering if the Administrator has determined that participation of such Eligible Employees is not advisable or practicable
(c)
    
Limitations
.  Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, no Eligible Employee will be granted an option under the Plan (i) to the extent that, immediately after the grant, such Eligible Employee (or any other person whose stock would be attributed to such Eligible Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) would own capital stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company and/or hold outstanding options to purchase such stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of the capital stock of the Company or of any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, or (ii) to the extent that his or her rights to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans (as defined in Section 423 of the Code) of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of
the Company accrues at a rate, which exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) worth of stock (determined at the Fair Market Value of the stock at the time such option is granted) for each calendar year in which such option is outstanding at any time, as determined in accordance with Section 423 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
4.
    
Offering Periods
.  The Plan will be implemented by consecutive Offering Periods with a new Offering Period commencing on the first Trading Day on or after January 1 and July 1 of each year, and terminating, respectively, on the last Trading Day on or before June 30 and December 31 of each year, or on such other dates as the Administrator will determine. Unless and until the Administrator determines otherwise in its discretion, each Offering Period shall consist of one six (6) month Purchase Period, which shall run simultaneously with the Offering Period. The Administrator will have the authority to establish additional or alternative sequential or overlapping Offering Periods, a different duration for one or more Offerings or Offering Periods or different commencement or ending dates for such Offering Periods with respect to future offerings without stockholder approval if such change is announced prior to the scheduled beginning of the first Offering Period to be affected thereafter, provided, however, that no Offering Period may have a duration exceeding twenty-seven (27) months. In addition, to the extent that the Administrator establishes overlapping Offering Periods with more than one Purchase Period in each Offering Period, the Administrator will have the discretion to structure an Offering Period so that if the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock on the first Trading Day of a new Purchase Period within that Offering Period is less than or equal to the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock on the Enrollment Date, then (i) that Offering Period will terminate immediately as of that first Trading Day, and (ii) the Participants in such terminated Offering Period will be automatically enrolled in a new Offering Period beginning on the first Trading Day of such new Purchase Period.
5.
    
Participation
. An Eligible Employee may participate in the Plan by (i) submitting to the Company's designated Human Resources representative, on or before a date determined by the Administrator prior to an applicable Enrollment Date, a properly completed subscription agreement authorizing Contributions in the form provided by the Administrator for such purpose, or (ii) following an electronic or other enrollment procedure determined by the Administrator, and in either case completing any other forms and following any procedures for enrollment in the Plan as may be established by the Administrator from time to time.
6.
    
Contributions
.
(a)
    
At the time a Participant enrolls in the Plan pursuant to Section 5, he or she will elect to have payroll deductions made on each pay day or other Contributions (to the extent permitted by the Administrator) made during the Offering Period in an amount not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the Compensation which he or she receives on each pay day during the Offering Period, or such different maximum percentage as may be determined by the Administrator prior to any Offering Period; should a pay day occur on an Exercise Date, a Participant shall have the payroll deductions made on such day applied to his or her account under the current Purchase Period, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may permit all Participants in a specified Offering to contribute amounts to the Plan through payment by cash, check or other means set forth in the subscription agreement prior to each Exercise Date of each Offering Period. A Participant's subscription agreement will remain in effect for successive Offering Periods unless terminated as provided in Section 10 hereof.
(b)
    
Payroll deductions for a Participant will commence on the first pay day following the Enrollment Date and will end on the last pay day of the Offering Period to which such authorization is applicable, unless sooner terminated by the Participant as provided in Section 10 hereof.
(c)
    
All Contributions made for a Participant will be credited to his or her account under the Plan and payroll deductions will be made in whole percentages only. A Participant may not make any additional payments into such account.
(d)
    
A Participant may discontinue his or her participation in the Plan as provided in Section 10. If permitted by the Administrator, as determined in its sole discretion, for an Offering Period, a Participant may increase or decrease the rate of his or her Contributions during the Offering Period or Purchase Period by (i) properly completing and submitting to the Company's designated Human Resources representative, on or before a date determined by the Administrator prior to an applicable Exercise Date, a new subscription agreement authorizing the change in Contribution rate in the form provided by the Administrator for such purpose, or (ii) following an electronic or other procedure prescribed by the Administrator. If a Participant has not followed such procedures to change the rate of Contributions, the rate of his or her Contributions will continue at the originally elected rate throughout the Offering Period and future Offering Periods (unless terminated as provided in Section 10). The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, limit the nature and/or number of Contribution rate changes that may be made by Participants during any Offering Period or Purchase Period, and may establish such other conditions or limitations as it deems appropriate for Plan administration. Any change in payroll deduction rate made pursuant to this Section 6(d) will be effective as soon as administratively practicable after the date on which the change is made by the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless and until otherwise determined by the Administrator, a Participant shall not be permitted to increase or decrease his or her rate of Contributions during an Offering Period, with the exception that a Participant may withdraw from the Plan and receive a refund of Contributions in accordance with Section 10.
(e)
    
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and Section 3(c)(ii), a Participant's Contributions may be decreased to zero percent (0%) at any time during an Offering Period. Subject to Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and Section 3(c)(ii) hereof, Contributions will recommence at the rate originally elected by the Participant effective as of the beginning of the first Offering Period scheduled to end in the following calendar year, unless terminated by the Participant as provided in Section 10.
(f)
    
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Plan, the Administrator may allow Eligible Employees to participate in the Plan via cash, check or other means instead of payroll deductions if  payroll deductions are not permitted under applicable local law and, for any Offering under the 423 Component, the Administrator determines that cash contributions are permissible under Section 423 of the Code.
7.
    
Grant of Option
.  On the Enrollment Date of each Offering Period, each Participant in such Offering Period will be granted an option to purchase on each Exercise Date during such Offering Period (at the applicable Purchase Price) up to a number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing such Participant's Contributions accumulated prior to such Exercise Date and retained in the Participant's account as of the Exercise Date by the applicable Purchase Price; provided that in no event will a Participant be permitted to purchase during each Purchase Period more than that number of whole shares of Stock determined by dividing Twelve Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($12,500) by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Enrollment Date of such Offering Period and further provided that, if the Purchase Period is any period other than six (6) months, then the foregoing limit shall be adjusted proportionately to reflect the length of the Purchase Period. The Administrator may, in its discretion and prior to the Enrollment Date of any Offering Period, (i) change the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be purchased by a Participant in such Offering Period or on any Exercise Date within an Offering Period, including the method for determining such maximum, or (ii) specify a maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be purchased by all Participants in an Offering Period or on any Exercise Date within an
Offering Period. Further, the Board may limit the number or value of the shares of Common Stock made available for purchase in a qualified period (
e.g.,
twelve (12) month period) by Participants in specified countries or working for specified Employers, if necessary to avoid securities law filings, achieve tax objectives or to meet other Company compliance objectives in particular locations outside the United States, provided that any such limitation is imposed under the Non-423 Component or, with respect to any Offering under the 423 Component, is imposed on an equal basis to all Participants under such Offering or as otherwise permitted in accordance with Section 423 of the Code and the U.S. Treasury Regulations thereunder. Exercise of the option will occur as provided in Section 8, unless the Participant has withdrawn pursuant to Section 10. The option will expire on the last day of the Offering Period.
8.
    
Exercise of Option
.
(a)
    
Unless a Participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 10, his or her option for the purchase of shares of Common Stock will be exercised automatically on the Exercise Date, and the maximum number of full shares subject to the option will be purchased for such Participant at the applicable Purchase Price with the accumulated Contributions from his or her account. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator prior to the Enrollment Date of any Offering Period, fractional shares calculated up to five (5) decimal places will be purchased. In the event that the Administrator determines not to allow the purchase of fractional shares, any Contributions accumulated in a Participant's account which are not sufficient to purchase a full share may be retained in the Participant's account for the subsequent Offering Period or Purchase Period, subject to earlier withdrawal by the Participant as provided in Section 10. Any other funds left over in a Participant's account after the Exercise Date will be returned to the Participant. During a Participant's lifetime, a Participant's option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.
(b)
    
If the Administrator determines that, on a given Exercise Date, the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which options are to be exercised may exceed (i) the number of shares of Common Stock that were available for sale under the Plan on the Enrollment Date of the applicable Offering Period, or (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock available for sale under the Plan on such Exercise Date, the Administrator may in its sole discretion (x) provide that the Company will make a pro rata allocation of the shares of Common Stock available for purchase on such Enrollment Date or Exercise Date, as applicable, in as uniform a manner as will be practicable and as it will determine in its sole discretion to be equitable among all Participants exercising options to purchase Common Stock on such Exercise Date, and continue all Offering Periods then in effect or (y) provide that the Company will make a pro rata allocation of the shares available for purchase on such Enrollment Date or Exercise Date, as applicable, in as uniform a manner as will be practicable and as it will determine in its sole discretion to be equitable among all Participants exercising options to purchase Common Stock on such Exercise Date, and terminate any or all Offering Periods then in effect pursuant to Section 21. The Company may make a pro rata allocation of the shares available on the Enrollment Date of any applicable Offering Period pursuant to the preceding sentence, notwithstanding any authorization of additional shares for issuance under the Plan by the Company's stockholders subsequent to such Enrollment Date.
(c)
    
Tax Withholding
. At the time the option is exercised, in whole or in part, or at the time some or all of the Common Stock issued under the Plan is disposed of (or any other time that a taxable event related to the Plan occurs), the Participant must make adequate provision for the Company's or Employer's federal, state, local or any other tax liability payable to any authority including taxes imposed by jurisdictions outside of the U.S., national insurance, social security or other tax withholding obligations, if any, which arise upon the exercise of the option or the disposition of the Common Stock (or any other time that a taxable event related to the Plan occurs), including, for the avoidance of doubt, any liability to pay an employer tax or social insurance contribution which has been shifted from the Company or any Employer
to the Participant as a matter of law or contract. At any time, the Company or the Employer may, but will not be obligated to, withhold from the Participant's compensation the amount necessary for the Company or the Employer to meet applicable withholding obligations, including any withholding required to make available to the Company or the Employer any tax deductions or benefits attributable to sale or early disposition of Common Stock by the Eligible Employee. In addition, the Company or the Employer may, but will not be obligated to, withhold from the proceeds of the sale of Common Stock or any other method of withholding the Company or the Employer deems appropriate.
9.
    
Delivery
.  As soon as reasonably practicable after each Exercise Date on which a purchase of shares of Common Stock occurs, the Company will arrange the delivery to each Participant of the shares purchased upon exercise of his or her option in a form determined by the Administrator (in its sole discretion) and pursuant to rules established by the Administrator. The Company may permit or require that shares be deposited directly with a broker designated by the Company or to a designated agent of the Company, and the Company may utilize electronic or automated methods of share transfer. The Company may require that shares be retained with such broker or agent for a designated period of time, and/or may establish procedures to permit tracking of dispositions of shares.
10.
    
Withdrawal
.
(a)
    
A Participant may withdraw all but not less than all the Contributions credited to his or her account and not yet used to exercise his or her option under the Plan at any time by (i) submitting to the Company's designated Human Resources representative a written notice of withdrawal in the form determined by the Administrator for such purpose, or (ii) following an electronic or other withdrawal procedure determined by the Administrator. Further, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, any Participant who elects to decrease the rate of his or her Contributions to zero percent (0%) during an Offering Period shall be deemed to withdraw from participation in the Plan. The Administrator may impose, from time to time, a requirement that the applicable notice of withdrawal from the Plan be on file with the Company for a reasonable period prior to the effectiveness of the Participant's withdrawal. All of the Participant's Contributions credited to his or her account will be paid to such Participant promptly after receipt of notice of withdrawal and such Participant's option for the Offering Period will be automatically terminated, and no further Contributions for the purchase of shares will be made for such Offering Period. If a Participant withdraws from an Offering Period, Contributions will not resume at the beginning of the succeeding Offering Period, unless the Participant re-enrolls in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.
(b)
    
A Participant's withdrawal from an Offering Period will not have any effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in any similar plan that may hereafter be adopted by the Company or in succeeding Offering Periods that commence after the termination of the Offering Period from which the Participant withdraws.
11.
    
Termination of Eligible Employee Status
. Upon a Participant's ceasing to be an Eligible Employee, for any reason, he or she will be deemed to have elected to withdraw from the Plan and the Contributions credited to such Participant's account during the Offering Period but not yet used to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan will be returned to such Participant or, in the case of his or her death, to the person or persons entitled thereto under Section 15, and such Participant's option will be automatically terminated.
12.
    
Interest
. No interest will accrue on the Contributions of a Participant in the Plan, except as may be required by applicable law, as determined by the Company, and if so required by the laws of a particular jurisdiction, shall apply to all Participants in the relevant Offering except to the extent otherwise permitted by U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.423-2(f), or with respect to any Offering under the Non-423
Component, the payment of interest shall apply as determined by the Administrator.
13.
    
Stock
.
(a)
    
Basic Limitation
. Subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company as provided in Section 20 hereof, a maximum of Fifteen Million (15,000,000) shares of Common Stock will be made available for sale under the Plan. All or any portion of such maximum number of shares may be issued under the Section 423 Component.
(b)
    
Rights as an Unsecured Creditor
. Until the shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of or broker selected by the Company), a Participant will only have the rights of an unsecured creditor with respect to such shares, and no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder will exist with respect to such shares.
(c)
    
Source of Shares
. Any shares of Common Stock issued upon exercise may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued shares or of treasury shares.
14.
    
Administration
. The Plan will be administered by the Board or the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, in connection with the administration of the Plan, any two of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Secretary or Executive Vice President-Human Resources of the Company, acting jointly, by and behalf of the Company, shall have the authority (a) to negotiate, fix and vary the terms of, and to execute and deliver, contracts, agreements, assignments, concessions, licenses, options and all other similar instruments, (b) to engage any agents or contractors, including banks, stock brokers and attorneys, (c) to amend the Plan, and (d) to otherwise do all acts and things necessary or suitable in connection with the exercise of any of the aforementioned powers; provided, that no such authorization shall extend to any amendment of the Plan that increases the number of shares of Common Stock available for purchase under the Plan or otherwise requires stockholder approval under applicable tax or stock exchange rules. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board shall administer the Plan to the extent necessary to comply with Applicable Laws.
Unless otherwise determined by the Board (within the constraints of Applicable Laws), the Administrator will have full and exclusive discretionary authority to construe, interpret and apply the terms of the Plan, to designate separate Offerings under the Plan, to determine which entities shall be Designated Subsidiaries or Designated Affiliates, to determine eligibility, to adjudicate all disputed claims filed under the Plan (including making factual determinations), to change the Offering Periods and Purchase Periods, limit the frequency and/or number of changes in the amount withheld during an Offering Period or Purchase Period, permit payroll withholding in excess of the amount designated by a Participant in order to adjust for delays or mistakes in the Company's processing of properly completed subscription agreements, establish reasonable waiting and adjustment periods and/or accounting and crediting procedures to ensure that amounts applied toward the purchase of Common Stock for each Participant properly correspond with Contribution amounts, and establish such other limitations or procedures as the Administrator determines in its sole discretion advisable that are consistent with the Plan, including adopting amendments to the Plan and/or outstanding options as permitted by Section 21 below.
Further, the Administrator, or its delegee to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws, may adopt such rules, procedures and sub-plans as are necessary or appropriate to permit the participation in the Plan by employees who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States, the terms of which sub-plans
may take precedence over other provisions of this Plan, with the exception of Section 13(a) hereof, but unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such sub-plan, the provisions of this Plan shall govern the operation of such sub-plan. To the extent inconsistent with the requirements of Section 423, any such sub-plan shall be considered part of the Non-423 Component, and rights granted thereunder shall not be required by the terms of the Plan to comply with Section 423 of the Code. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrator is specifically authorized to adopt rules and procedures regarding eligibility to participate, the definition of Compensation, handling of Contributions, making of Contributions to the Plan (including, without limitation, in forms other than payroll deductions), establishment of bank or trust accounts to hold Contributions, payment of interest, establishment of the exchange ratio applicable to Contributions withheld in a currency other than U.S. dollars, obligations to pay payroll tax, determination of beneficiary designation requirements, withholding procedures and handling of stock certificates that vary with applicable local requirements. The Administrator also is authorized to determine that, to the extent permitted by U.S. Treasury Regulation Section 1.423-2(f), the terms of an option granted under the Plan or an Offering to citizens or residents of a non-U.S. jurisdiction will be less favorable than the terms of options granted under the Plan or the same Offering to employees resident solely in the U.S. Every finding, decision and determination made by the Administrator will be final and binding upon all parties.
15.
    
Death of Participant
. In the event of the death of a Participant, any shares of Common Stock and cash, if any, from the Participant's account under the Plan will be delivered to the executor, administrator or personal representative of the estate of the Participant, or such other individual as may be prescribed by applicable law.
16.
    
Transferability
. Neither Contributions credited to a Participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or to receive shares of Common Stock under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or as provided in Section 15 hereof) by the Participant. Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition will be without effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to withdraw funds from an Offering Period in accordance with Section 10 hereof.
17.
    
Use of Funds
. The Company may use all Contributions received or held by it under the Plan for any corporate purpose, and the Company will not be obligated to segregate such Contributions except under Offerings in which applicable local law requires that Contributions to the Plan by Participants be segregated from the Company's general corporate funds and/or deposited with an independent third party for Participants in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Until shares of Common Stock are issued, Participants will only have the rights of an unsecured creditor with respect to such shares.
18.
    
Reports
. Individual accounts will be maintained for each Participant in the Plan. Statements of account will be given to participating Eligible Employees at least annually, which statements will set forth the amounts of Contributions, the Purchase Price, the number of shares of Common Stock purchased and the remaining cash balance, if any.
19.
    
No Right to Employment
. Participation in the Plan by a Participant shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or Affiliate, as applicable. Furthermore, the Company or a Subsidiary or Affiliate may dismiss a Participant from employment at any time, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan.
20.
    
Adjustments, Dissolution, Liquidation or Change in Control
.
(a)
    
Adjustments
. In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Common Stock, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split,
reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company, or other change in the corporate structure of the Company affecting the Common Stock occurs, the Administrator, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, will, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust the number and class of Common Stock that may be delivered under the Plan, the Purchase Price per share and the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan that has not yet been exercised, and the numerical limits of Section 7.
(b)
    
Dissolution or Liquidation
. In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, any Offering Period then in progress will be shortened by setting a New Exercise Date, and will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed dissolution or liquidation, unless provided otherwise by the Administrator. The New Exercise Date will be before the date of the Company's proposed dissolution or liquidation. The Administrator will notify each Participant in writing or electronically, prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for the Participant's option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that the Participant's option will be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date the Participant has withdrawn from the Offering Period as provided in Section 10 hereof.
(c)
    
Change in Control
. In the event of a Change in Control, each outstanding option will be assumed or an equivalent option substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the option, then, in the sole discretion of the Administrator, either (i) all outstanding options will be cancelled by the Administrator as of a date prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and all Contributions shall be refunded to the Participants; or (ii) the Offering Period with respect to which such option relates will be shortened by setting a New Exercise Date on which such Offering Period shall end. The New Exercise Date will occur before the date of the Company's proposed Change in Control. The Administrator will notify each Participant in writing or electronically prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for the Participant's option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that the Participant's option will be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date the Participant has withdrawn from the Offering Period as provided in Section 10 hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company shall at any time merge or consolidate with another corporation and the holders of the capital stock of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continue to hold at least seventy-five percent (75%) by voting power of the capital stock of the surviving corporation, the holder of each option then outstanding will thereafter be entitled to receive at the next Exercise Date upon the exercise of such option for each share of Common Stock as to which such option shall be exercised the securities or property which a holder of such shares of Common Stock was entitled to upon and at the time of such merger or consolidation, and the Administrator shall take such steps in connection with such merger or consolidation as the Administrator shall deem necessary to assure that the provisions of Section 20(a) shall thereafter be applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to the said securities or property as to which such holder of such option might thereafter be entitled to receive thereunder.
21.
    
Amendment or Termination
.
(a)
    
The Administrator, in its sole discretion (except as provided in Section 14), may amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan, or any part thereof, at any time and for any reason. If the Plan is terminated, the Administrator, in its discretion, may elect to terminate all outstanding Offering Periods either immediately or upon completion of the purchase of shares of Common Stock on the next Exercise Date (which may be sooner than originally scheduled, if determined by the Administrator in its discretion), or may elect to permit Offering Periods to expire in accordance with their terms (and subject to any adjustment pursuant to Section 20). If the Offering Periods are terminated prior to expiration, all amounts then credited to Participants
'
accounts that have not been used to purchase shares of Common Stock will be returned to the Participants (without interest thereon, except as otherwise required under local laws, as further set forth in Section 12 hereof) as soon as administratively practicable. In addition, an amendment to the Plan must be approved by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months of the adoption of such amendment if such amendment would authorize the sale of more shares than are then authorized for issuance under the Plan or would change the definition of the corporations that may be designated by the Administrator as participating companies under the Plan.
(b)
    
In the event the Administrator determines that the ongoing operation of the Plan may result in unfavorable financial accounting consequences, the Administrator may, in its discretion and, to the extent necessary or desirable, modify, amend or terminate the Plan to reduce or eliminate such accounting consequence including, but not limited to:
(i)
    
amending the Plan to conform with the safe harbor definition under the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718 (or any successor thereto), including with respect to an Offering Period underway at the time;
(ii)
    
altering the Purchase Price for any Purchase Period or Offering Period including a Purchase Period or Offering Period underway at the time of the change in Purchase Price;
(iii)
    
shortening any Offering Period by setting a New Exercise Date, including an Offering Period underway at the time of the Administrator action;
(iv)
    
reducing the maximum percentage of Compensation a Participant may elect to set aside as Contributions; and
(v)
    
reducing the maximum number of shares of Common Stock a Participant may purchase during any Offering Period.
Such modifications or amendments will not require stockholder approval or the consent of any Plan Participants.
(c)
    
The Administrator may amend an outstanding option or grant a replacement option for a option previously granted under the Plan if, in the Administrator's discretion, it determines that (i) the tax consequences of such option to the Company or the Participant differ from those consequences that were expected to occur on the date the option was granted, (ii) clarifications or interpretations of, or changes to, tax law or regulations permit options to be granted that have more favorable tax consequences than initially anticipated, or (iii) such amendment is necessary or advisable to comply with applicable local laws.
22.
    
Notices
.  All notices or other communications by a Participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan will be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form and manner specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
23.
    
Notification Of Disposition Of Shares
. As a condition of participation in the Plan, the Company requires Participants in an Offering under the 423 Component to give the Company prompt notice of any disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired by exercise of an option. The Company may further require that until such time as a Participant in an Offering under the 423 Component disposes of shares acquired upon exercise of an option, the Participant shall hold all such shares in the Participant's name (or, if elected by the Participant, in the name of the Participant and his or her spouse but not in the name of any nominee) until the later of two years after the date of grant of such option or one year after the date of exercise of such option. The Company may direct that the certificates evidencing shares acquired by exercise of an option
refer to such requirement to give prompt notice of disposition.
24.
    
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
.  Shares of Common Stock will not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto will comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and will be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance. The inability or impracticability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares under the Plan, or the approval of any securities exchange or market system upon which the Common Stock may then be listed, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the issuance and sale of any shares under the Plan in compliance with the requirements of such securities exchange or market system, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority or approval shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation, and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
25.
    
Code Section 409A.
  The Plan is exempt from the application of Code Section 409A and any ambiguities herein will be interpreted to so be exempt from Code Section 409A. The Non-423 Component is intended to be exempt from the application of Section 409A of the Code under the short-term deferral exception and any ambiguities shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. In furtherance of the foregoing and notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary, if the Administrator determines that an option granted under the Plan may be subject to Code Section 409A or that any provision in the Plan would cause an option under the Plan to be subject to Code Section 409A, the Administrator may amend the terms of the Plan and/or of an outstanding option granted under the Plan, or take such other action the Administrator determines is necessary or appropriate, in each case, without the Participant's consent, to exempt any outstanding option or future option that may be granted under the Plan from or to allow any such options to comply with Code Section 409A, but only to the extent any such amendments or action by the Administrator would not violate Code Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall have no liability to a Participant or any other party if the option to purchase Common Stock under the Plan that is intended to be exempt from or compliant with Code Section 409A is not so exempt or compliant or for any action taken by the Administrator with respect thereto.
26.
    
Tax-Qualification
. Although the Company may endeavor to (i) qualify an option for favorable tax treatment under the laws of the United States or jurisdictions outside of the United States or (ii) avoid adverse tax treatment (
e.g
., under Section 409A of the Code), the Company makes no representation to that effect and expressly disavows any covenant to maintain favorable or avoid unfavorable tax treatment, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, including Section 25. The Company shall be unconstrained in its corporate activities without regard to the potential negative tax impact on Participants under the Plan.
27.
    
Term of Plan
. Subject to Section 28 of the Plan, the Plan will become effective upon its adoption by the Board. It will continue in effect until terminated under Section 21.
28.
    
Stockholder Approval
. The Plan will be subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months after the date the Plan is adopted by the Board. Such stockholder approval will be obtained in the manner and to the degree required under Applicable Laws.
29.
    
Governing Law
. The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Massachusetts (except its choice-of-law provisions).
30.
    
Severability
. If any provision of the Plan is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable for any reason in any jurisdiction or as to any Participant, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as to such jurisdiction or Participant as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had not been included.
31.
    
Dividends on Shares Purchased under the Plan
.
Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, each Participant agrees, for so long as shares of Common Stock purchased by the Participant at any time under the Plan (the 
Purchased Shares
) are held by the individual in an account with a bank, transfer agent, or other financial institution designated by the Company to hold the Purchased Shares (the 
Financial Institution
), to (a) participate in the Staples, Inc. dividend reinvestment program maintained by the Financial Institution (the 
DRIP
) such that the individual shall receive, in lieu of any cash dividend paid or payable by the Company with respect to the individual's Purchased Shares that are held in an account with the Financial Institution (the 
Captive Shares
), shares of Common Stock (including any fractional shares) pursuant to the terms of the DRIP, and (b) allow the Company to take all reasonably necessary and appropriate actions to ensure that the amount of any cash dividend paid or payable by the Company with respect to the employee's Captive Shares is paid in the form of Common Stock instead of cash.
32.
    
Headings
. Headings are given to the sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan.
Approved by the Board of Directors on December 6, 2011, subject to stockholder approval.
Approved by Stockholders on June 4, 2012.


