FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20030424171853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report: (Date of earliest event reported) April 24, 2003 CORNING INCORPORATED (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New York 1-3247 16-0393470 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, New York 14831 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (607) 974-9000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) N/A (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure. On April 22, 2003, Corning Incorporated issued a press release setting forth Corning's first quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of Corning's press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated April 22, 2003. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. On April 24, 2003, Corning Incorporated issued a press release relating to its annual meeting of shareholders and that press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2. (c) Exhibits 99.2 Press release dated April 24, 2003.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. CORNING INCORPORATED Registrant Date: April 24, 2003 By /s/ KATHERINE A. ASBECK ------------------------------------ Katherine A. Asbeck Senior Vice President and Controller
Exhibit 99.1 FOR RELEASE -- APRIL 22, 2003 Media Relations Contact: Investor Relations Contact: Daniel F. Collins Kenneth C. Sofio (607) 974-4197 (607) 974-7705 collinsdf@corning.com sofiokc@corning.com Corning Reports First-Quarter Results Performance exceeds guidance Continued strength seen in LCD market CORNING, N.Y. -- Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) today announced that its first-quarter results exceeded quarterly guidance and sales increased sequentially for the first time in two years. The company said sales were $746 million and that it recorded a net loss of $205 million or $0.17 per share. This net loss includes $201 million or $0.17 per share of charges primarily related to the previously announced asbestos litigation settlement and restructuring and impairment charges. James R. Houghton, chairman and chief executive officer, said, "We are extremely pleased with the improvement in our quarterly performance. Our results reflect stronger than expected demand for fiber and cable in Japan and the continued strength of our technologies businesses, particularly the Display Technologies and Environmental Technologies businesses." Houghton said that the company continues to focus on its goal of returning to profitability by the third quarter of this year. "We are seeing significant improvement in our gross margin and lower operating costs due to our restructuring efforts over the past year," he said. Previously Announced Charges Corning said its first-quarter results include net charges totaling $345 million ($201 million after-tax and minority interest) or $0.17 per share. These include the following: . A previously announced charge of $298 million ($192 million after-tax) for asbestos litigation related to Pittsburgh Corning Corporation. . Net restructuring and impairment charges of $51 million ($12 million after-tax and minority interest) related to the previously announced decisions to shut down Corning Asahi Video (CAV) and the optical switching business, offset by adjustments to the company's existing restructuring reserves. . A net gain of $4 million ($3 million after-tax) related to the repurchase of debt using cash and common stock. (more)
Corning Reports First-Quarter Results Page Two First-Quarter Operating Results Sales for the quarter of $746 million represent a sequential increase from fourth- quarter sales of $736 million. Telecommunications segment sales were $352 million, compared to fourth-quarter sales of $363 million. Fiber volume increased approximately 15 percent sequentially due to stronger than expected demand in Japan and China, offset by continued softness in North America and Europe. Sequential price declines, as expected, were in the 10 to 15 percent range for the quarter. Corning Technologies recorded first-quarter sales of $388 million, an increase over fourth-quarter sales of $367 million. Corning's display glass sales were fueled by strong demand for flat screen desktop monitors, the popularity of notebook computers and growing interest in liquid crystal display (LCD) televisions. Sequential quarterly display glass volume gains were about 10 percent and LCD glass pricing was stable. Corning's environmental products business experienced volume increases worldwide. Both of these businesses benefited from favorable exchange rates. Corning's first-quarter results benefited from the initial recognition of $17 million of equity earnings from Dow Corning Corporation. Corning's total equity earnings for the first quarter were $59 million. Liquidity Update Corning said that it ended the first quarter with $1.85 billion in cash and short-term investments, a decline from $2.1 billion at the end of last year. The decline was primarily due to the use of cash to retire debt. Operating cash flow included a $191 million federal income tax refund. In the first quarter, Corning used $251 million for scheduled debt repayments and open market repurchases. In addition, Corning exchanged 6.5 million shares of Corning common stock for debt with an accreted value of $43 million. Corning said that it might continue from time-to-time to retire its debt securities in open market, privately negotiated or other transactions. Corning ended the quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 45.6 percent, down from 46.7 percent from year-end. Second-Quarter Outlook Corning said that it expects second-quarter sales to be in the range of $715 million to $745 million. It also anticipates results in the range of a loss of $0.02 per share to income of $0.01 per share. These results exclude the impact of previously announced restructuring charges and any adjustments to the asbestos settlement reserve required by movement in Corning's stock price. (more)
Corning Reports First-Quarter Results Page Three Corning expects continued strong performance from its LCD glass business, with sequential volume gains of about 10 percent and stable pricing. Second quarter fiber volumes are expected to decline sequentially by about 25 percent, driven by the seasonal slowdowns in Japan and the continued softness across the North American market. Corning said it also continues to explore a number of options for its Photonic Technologies business and expects to reach a decision by mid-year. James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer, said, "Putting aside the strength of our fiber and cable business in Asia last quarter, we are not seeing a lift in our telecommunications businesses, but this does not surprise us. Global events, the long winter in North America and the overall malaise in the economy appear to be delaying any potential seasonal improvements in telecom sales. We anticipate that with normal seasonality in the Japanese fiber market, there will be a pick up in volume in the second half of the year. Flaws said that the company has been closely monitoring external trends across all its markets and said, "While it is too early to tell, there are indications that a general economic slow down in North America may affect some of Corning's businesses such as Environmental Technologies where potential inventory corrections in the auto industry could dampen second-quarter sales. However, our plan to return to profitability is mostly dependent on strong performance of our display business and our own cost cutting actions. Our first-quarter performance on these fronts was strong and we remain optimistic that our profitability goal is achievable." About Corning Incorporated Established in 1851, Corning Incorporated (www.corning.com) creates leading-edge technologies that offer growth opportunities in markets that fuel the world's economy. Corning manufactures optical fiber, cable and photonic products in its Telecommunications segment. Corning's Technologies segment manufactures high-performance display glass, and products for the environmental, life sciences, and semiconductor markets. First-Quarter Conference Call Information The company will host a first quarter conference call at 8:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday, April 23, 2003. To access the call, dial (312) 470-0008. The password is Corning. The leader is Sofio. A replay of the call will begin at approximately 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5 p.m. ET, Wednesday, May 7, 2003. To listen, dial (402) 220-4617, no passcode required. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call at 8:30 a.m. on Wednesday, April 23, please go to our Web site and follow the instructions: http://www.corning.com/investor_relations. The webcast will be archived for 14 days following the call. (more)
Corning Reports First-Quarter Results Page Four Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a variety of business risks and other uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include the possibility of changes or fluctuations in global economic conditions; currency exchange rates; product demand and industry capacity; competitive products and pricing; availability and costs of critical components and materials; new product development and commercialization; order activity and demand from major customers; capital spending by larger customers in the telecommunications industry and other business segments; the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity and armed conflict; ability to obtain financing and capital on commercially reasonable terms; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; and litigation. These and other risk factors are identified in Corning's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events. ###
CORNING INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited; in millions, except per share amounts) See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CORNING INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions, except per share amounts) Certain amounts for 2002 were reclassified to conform with 2003 classifications. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CORNING INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited; in millions) Certain amounts for 2002 were reclassified to conform with 2003 classifications. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
CORNING INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES SEGMENT RESULTS (Unaudited; in millions) Non-segment/other items net (loss) income is detailed below: (1) Includes non-segment operations and other corporate activities. (2) Includes amounts derived from corporate investments and activities, primarily Dow Corning Corporation - $17 million.
CORNING INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1. Restructuring, Impairment and Other Charges and Credits In the first quarter of 2003, Corning recorded charges for the shut-down of the conventional video components business and the optical switching product line which were announced on April 15, 2003 and February 13, 2003, respectively. Corning also recorded credits related to the restructuring reserve discussed below. Conventional video components business Corning Asahi Video Products Company, a 51% owned consolidated subsidiary, (conventional video components business, or CAV), is a manufacturer of glass panels and funnels for use in conventional tube televisions and is reported in the Technologies segment. On April 15, 2003, Corning announced that it had agreed with its partner to cease production. Corning impaired the long-lived assets of this business to estimated salvage value and recorded a charge of $62 million, ($19 million after-tax and minority interest). Restructuring costs are expected to be recorded in the second quarter and total $80 million to $110 million ($20 million to $35 million after-tax and minority interest). Corning expects the restructuring costs to require $40 million to $65 million in cash spending. Corning has agreed with its partner to a shared funding arrangement based on proportional partnership interests. Optical Switching Corning recorded a charge of $17 million associated with the discontinuance of the optical switching product line in the photonic technologies business due to the downturn in the telecommunications industry. In addition to the first quarter charges, Corning expects to record charges of $10 million in the second quarter for certain exit costs. Impairment of Cost Investments In the first quarter, Corning recorded a $5 million ($3 million after-tax) charge for other than temporary declines in certain investments accounted for under the cost method in the Telecommunications segment. Credits The current restructuring reserve continues to be evaluated as plans are being executed. As a result, there may be additional charges or reversals. In addition, since the restructuring program is an aggregation of many individual plans currently being executed, actual costs have differed from estimated amounts. During the first quarter, Corning recorded credits of $33 million related to revised cost estimates of existing restructuring plans of which $24 million related to employee separation and exit costs, while $9 million related to adjustments to assumed salvage values of assets that were previously impaired. 2. Asbestos Settlement On March 28, 2003, Corning announced that it had reached agreement with the representatives of asbestos claimants for the settlement of all current and future asbestos claims against Corning and Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC), which might arise from PCC products or operations.
The agreement is expected to be incorporated into a settlement fund as part of a reorganization plan for PCC. The plan will be submitted to the federal bankruptcy court in Pittsburgh for approval, and is subject to a favorable vote by 75 percent of the asbestos claimants voting on the PCC reorganization plan. Corning will make its contributions to the settlement trust under the agreement after the plan is approved and no longer subject to appeal. The approval process could take one year or longer. Corning's settlement will require the contribution, when the plan becomes effective, of Corning's equity interest in PCC, its one-half equity interest in Pittsburgh Corning Europe N.V. (PCE), a Belgian corporation, and 25 million shares of Corning common stock. Corning also will make cash payments with a current value of $130 million over six years beginning in June 2005. In addition, Corning will assign insurance policy proceeds from its primary insurance and a portion of its excess insurance as part of the settlement. Corning recorded a charge of $298 million ($192 million after-tax) in the first quarter. The carrying value of Corning's stock in PCE and the fair value as of March 31, 2003, of 25 million shares of Corning common stock have been reflected in current liabilities. The remaining $130 million, representing the net present value of the cash payments, discounted at 5.5%, is recorded in noncurrent liabilities. Any changes in the value of Corning's common stock contribution will need to be recognized in Corning's quarterly results through the date of contribution to the settlement trust. 3. Gain on Repurchases of Debt, Net of Inducements During the first quarter of 2003, Corning repurchased and retired 298,500 zero coupon convertible debentures with an accreted value of $231 million in exchange for cash of $189 million in a series of open-market repurchases. Also in the first quarter Corning issued 6.5 million shares of treasury common stock in exchange for zero coupon convertible debentures with an accreted value of $43 million. Corning recorded a net gain of $4 million ($3 million after-tax) associated with retirements of its zero coupon convertible debentures in the first quarter. The increase in equity due to the issuance of shares from treasury stock was $77 million. 4. Income Tax In the first quarter of 2003, the effective tax benefit rate excluding certain items such as restructuring, impairment, asbestos settlement and debt transactions was 30%.
CORNING INCORPORATED QUARTERLY SALES INFORMATION (In millions) The above supplemental information is intended to facilitate analysis of Corning's businesses.
Exhibit 99.2 FOR RELEASE -- APRIL 24, 2003 Media Relations Contact: Investor Relations Contact: Monica L. Ott Kenneth C. Sofio (607) 974-8769 (607) 974-7705 ottml@corning.com sofiokc@corning.com Corning Chairman tells Shareholders: "We are Succeeding" After challenging time, sees a bright future for Corning CORNING, N.Y. -- A year after returning to the helm, Corning Incorporated's (NYSE:GLW) Chairman and CEO, James R. Houghton, today told shareholders that the company is succeeding with its plan to return to profitability. "Last year, I told you that we, as a company, were up to the challenge before us. I told you that we would focus our priorities in three very distinct areas; that we would dedicate all our energies toward preserving our financial health, toward returning to profitability, and toward investing in our future...I told you that in all these areas we would succeed. My friends, one year later, we are succeeding," Houghton said. Houghton's remarks were part of his annual address to more than 500 shareholders assembled for the company's annual meeting in Corning, N.Y. He thanked the audience for their confidence and support in the company and presaged Corning's promising future, "As the economy recovers and the business world begins to look around to see who's still standing, they'll see Corning because we have continued to believe we had a future and we have taken steps so it will be a bright one." Financial health and profitability Houghton pointed out that the company's first-quarter results were break even, excluding one-time charges, "and our first quarter operating cash flow was positive." He praised management's efforts at reducing costs and eliminating slightly more than $1 billion in debt over the past 15 months. (more)
Corning Chairman tells Shareholders: "We are Succeeding" Page Two The chairman also outlined the company's progress toward its goal of returning to operating profitability, highlighting its broad and diverse business portfolio as a source of strength. "The two keys to our return to profitability will be the cost reduction from last year's restructuring and the momentum from businesses in what we call our Corning Technologies segment," he said. In particular, Houghton noted that the liquid-crystal display business, which creates the glass used in flat panel desktop computers, notebook computers and the new LCD televisions are beginning to revolutionize the communications industry. Houghton also said Corning's environmental products business is well positioned for continued global growth in both the automotive and diesel markets. Houghton reaffirmed Corning's commitment to optical communications and said that the company expects growth of its telecommunications business to return over time. He also told shareholders that the company is monitoring external trends across all of its markets, "...the timing of our recovery is affected, in great measure, by how the economy recovers in the wake of the war in Iraq. If world events continue to put a drain on consumer confidence, on our business expansions and on the general economy, both here and around the world, we will be affected too." Investing in the future Houghton reminded shareholders of the company's continued commitment to innovation, "And while we have dealt with our current day business challenges, we have continued to keep a steady eye on our future...today we are broadening our presence in exciting industries where we are already leaders." Among the areas he highlighted were new ways of making flat panel glass, new technologies in the diesel emission control market, new properties for producing optical fiber and improved processes to enable new generations of drug discovery. Looking ahead Houghton said that while the company may continue to face challenging times, it will not change its three focus areas. "We firmly believe in the plan we have charted for ourselves and we will pursue it relentlessly, because it will pay off." In other business, shareholders re-elected the following directors: James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer, Corning Incorporated; James R. Houghton, chairman and chief executive officer, Corning Incorporated; Jeremy R. Knowles, Amory Houghton professor of chemistry and biochemistry, Harvard University; James J. O'Connor, retired chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Unicom Corporation; Deborah D. Rieman, retired president and chief executive officer, Check Point Software Technologies, Incorporated; and Peter F. Volanakis, president of Corning Technologies, Corning Incorporated. (more)
Corning Chairman tells Shareholders: "We are Succeeding" Page Three Shareholders also approved the 2003 variable compensation plan, which is designed to provide a competitive incentive opportunity to attract and retain key executives; the 2003 equity plan for non-employee directors, which is designed to assist Corning in attracting and retaining highly qualified board members; and the amendment of the 2000 employee equity participation program, which permits employees to obtain equity ownership in Corning. About Corning Incorporated Established in 1851, Corning Incorporated (www.corning.com) creates leading-edge technologies that offer growth opportunities in markets that fuel the world's economy. Corning manufactures optical fiber, cable and photonic products in its Telecommunications segment. Corning's Technologies segment manufactures high-performance display glass, and products for the environmental, life sciences, and semiconductor markets. Webcast Information The company will host a live audio webcast of the 2003 annual meeting of shareholders in Corning, N.Y., available from 11 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. ET, April 24, 2003. To access the webcast, go to http://www.corning.com and click on the webcast icon. No password or registration is required. The webcast will be archived on the Web site for 14 days after the broadcast. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a variety of business risks and other uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include the possibility of changes or fluctuations in global economic conditions; currency exchange rates; product demand and industry capacity; competitive products and pricing; availability and costs of critical components and materials; new product development and commercialization; order activity and demand from major customers; capital spending by larger customers in the telecommunications industry and other business segments; the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity and armed conflict; ability to obtain financing and capital on commercially reasonable terms; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; and litigation. These and other risk factors are identified in Corning's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events. ###


