FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20050920144038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On September 20, 2005 Corning Incorporated issued a press release announcing that Donald B. McNaughton today was named Senior Vice President, International and Strategic Ventures. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. To Corning Incorporated's knowledge, all Section 16(a) filing requirements applicable to Mr. McNaughton were met during 2004 and to date. He did not receive any waiver under Corniing's codes of conduct and was not involved in any known reportable related party transactions with Corning.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit 99 Press Release dated September 20, 2005
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  SEPTEMBER 20, 2005
Daniel F. Collins (607) 974-4197 collinsdf@corning.com
Media Relations Contact:
Corning Names McNaughton to Oversee International and Ventures
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) today announced that Donald B. McNaughton, has been named senior vice president, International and Strategic Ventures and James P. Clappin, has been promoted to lead Display Technologies. These assignments are effective immediately and both individuals will report directly to Peter F. Volanakis, chief operating officer.
CORNING, N.Y. 
McNaughton, 46, will be responsible for ensuring that Corning maintains and expands its market presence for its businesses and strategic ventures internationally. In addition to continuing as a director of Samsung Corning Co., Ltd. and Samsung Corning Precision Glass Co., Ltd., he will be proposed as a director of the company's equity ventures Cormetech, Inc., and Eurokera S.N.C. , as well as have responsibility for Corning's international network of offices. McNaughton has been with Corning since 1989, serving in a number of leadership roles in both the company's Environmental Technologies and Display Technologies business segments. He was named senior vice president, Display Technologies in 2003.
A resident of Elmira, McNaughton received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth College and a master's degree from the Tuck School at Dartmouth College.
Clappin, 48, general manager for Display Technologies, will lead the development of the business while now assuming responsibility for the segment's future business growth, strategy and operations.
Clappin started with Corning in 1980, joining the company's Display Technologies segment in 1994. He was named general manager of Display's Taiwan operations in 2000, and general manager, Display Technologies and president, Display Technologies Asia in 2002.
Clappin holds a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from the University of Rhode Island.
Page Two
Corning Names McNaughton to Oversee International and Ventures
Corning Incorporated () is a diversified technology company that concentrates its efforts on high-impact growth opportunities. Corning combines its expertise in specialty glass, ceramic materials, polymers and the manipulation of the properties of light, with strong process and manufacturing capabilities to develop, engineer and commercialize significant innovative products for the telecommunications, flat panel display, environmental, semiconductor, and life sciences industries.
About Corning Incorporated
www.corning.com


