FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20050317162302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Item 3.03. Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
On March 17, 2005, Corning Incorporated ("Corning" or the "Company") terminated its five year revolving credit agreement (the "Terminated Credit Agreement") and entered into a new five year revolving credit agreement (the "New Credit Agreement"). The Terminated Credit Agreement was with a group of banks that included Citibank, N.A., JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Barclays Bank PLC. The Terminated Credit Agreement had a termination date of August 17, 2005. The total lending commitment under the Terminated Credit Agreement was $2,000,000,000. The Terminated Credit Agreement contained affirmative and negative covenants, including (a) periodic financial reporting requirements, (b) maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt for borrowed money to consolidated total capital of not greater than 0.60 to 1.00, (c) limitation on liens, (d) limitation on mergers, as well as other customary covenants. Corning incurred no penalties in connection with the early termination of the Terminated Credit Agreement. The New Credit Agreement is with a group of banks that include Citibank, N.A., JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., Wachovia Bank, National Association, Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch. Under the New Credit Agreement, borrowings are available in Dollars, Sterling, Yen and Euros to Corning and any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Corning in a maximum amount outstanding at any one time of $975,000,000 ($200,000,000 of which is available for Letters of Credit) (the "Commitment Amount"). The Commitment Amount may be increased over the term by $250,000,000. The New Credit Agreement provides that loans to subsidiaries will be guaranteed by Corning. The New Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants that Corning must comply with, including (a) periodic financial reporting requirements, (b) maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt for borrowed money to consolid ated total capital of no greater than 0.50 to 1.00, (c) maintaining a ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 3.50 to 1.00, (d) limitation on liens, (e) limitation on the incurrence of subsidiary indebtedness, (f) limitation on mergers, (g) restrictions on the declaration of dividends, as well as other customary covenants. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Terminated Credit Agreement and there are currently no amounts outstanding under the New Credit Agreement. The press release announcing the execution of the New Credit Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99. A copy of the New Credit Agreement will be filed with Cornings Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005. From time to time, certain of the Lenders under the Terminated Credit Agreement and the New Credit Agreement provide customary commercial and investment banking services to the Company.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
As of March 11, 2005, 57,809,392 securities remained available for future issuance under Corning's 2000 Employee Equity Participation Program, as amended, and 545,555 securities remained available for future issuance under Corning's 2003 Equity Plan for Non-Employee Directors. As of March 11, 2005, there were 140,708,975 securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights already granted under Corning equity plans approved by security holders. The weighted average exercise price of such outstanding options, warrants and rights is $20.30.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99 Press release dated March 17, 2005
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  MARCH 17, 2005
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) today announced that it has entered into a new five-year, $975 million unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility. The new credit facility replaces Corning's existing $2 billion revolving credit facility, which had been scheduled to mature in August 2005.
CORNING, N.Y. 
"We are very pleased with the outcome of the syndication effort," said James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer. "This renewal completes an important step in our plan to return to investment grade this year. It augments our strong cash position by providing access to additional committed liquidity on attractive terms and conditions with a very strong bank group," he added.
Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. served as joint lead arrangers and book managers in the syndication of the credit facility. In addition, Bank of America, N.A., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., Barclays Bank plc, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Bank, National Association served as co-documentation agents.
Corning Incorporated (www.corning.com) is a diversified technology company that concentrates its efforts on high-impact growth opportunities. Corning combines its expertise in specialty glass, ceramic materials, polymers and the manipulation of the properties of light, with strong process and manufacturing capabilities to develop, engineer and commercialize significant innovative products for the telecommunications, flat panel display, environmental, semiconductor, and life sciences industries.
About Corning Incorporated
Page Two
Corning Incorporated Completes New Five-Year $975 million Revolving Credit Facility
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a variety of business risks and other uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include the possibility of changes or fluctuations in global economic and political conditions; tariffs, import duties and currency fluctuations; product demand and industry capacity; competitive products and pricing; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability and costs of critical components and materials; new product development and commercialization; order activity and demand from major customers; capital spending by larger customers in the liquid crystal display industry and other businesses; changes in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products; facility expansions and new plant start-up costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political instability or major health concerns; ability to obtain financing and capital on commercially reasonable terms; adequacy and availability of insurance; capital resource and cash flow activities; capital spending; equity company activities; interest costs; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; changes in key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are identified in Corning's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements


