FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20050721164832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The Corning Incorporated press release dated July 20, 2005 regarding the election of Padmasree Warrior to the Board of Directors is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference. The Corning Board Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee had recommended and nominated Ms. Warrior as a director candidate. At its July 20, 2005 meeting electing Ms. Warrior, the Corning Board of Directors concluded that she had no related party transactions with the company and qualified as independent. She will serve as member of the Board's Corporate Relations Committee and Pension Committee.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits The following exhibit is filed with this current report on Form 8-K: 99 Press Release issued by Corning Incorporated on July 20, 2005
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  JULY 20, 2005
 Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) has announced that Padmasree Warrior, executive vice president and chief technology officer of Motorola, Inc., today was appointed to the company's board of directors.
CORNING, N.Y.
The Corning board also determined that she qualifies as an independent director. She will serve on the Corning board effective immediately. Ms. Warrior will hold office until Corning's annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 2006 when it is expected that she will be nominated to serve a two-year term. Ms. Warrior's appointment brings the number of Corning directors to 15. The size of the board has ranged from 13 to 18 directors since 1990.
Ms. Warrior, 44, brings a broad technology perspective to the Corning board. She joined Motorola in 1984 and has held many leadership positions. She was appointed vice president in 1999 and was elected a corporate officer in 2000. Ms. Warrior was corporate vice president and chief technology officer for Motorola's Semiconductor Products Sector, general manager of Thoughtbeam, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, and corporate vice president and general manager of Motorola's energy systems group. In her current role as executive vice president and chief technology officer, she is responsible for Motorola labs, the global software group, and emerging early-stage businesses. Ms. Warrior served on the Texas Governor's Council for Digital Economy, and is a member of the Texas Higher Education Board review panel.
She received her M.S. degree in chemical engineering from Cornell University and a B.S. degree in chemical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in New Delhi, India.
Corning Incorporated (www.corning.com) is a diversified technology company that concentrates its efforts on high-impact growth opportunities. Corning combines its expertise in specialty glass, ceramic materials, polymers and the manipulation of the properties of light, with strong process and manufacturing capabilities to develop, engineer and commercialize significant innovative products for the telecommunications, flat panel display, environmental, semiconductor, and life sciences industries.
About Corning Incorporated


