FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20061003160347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The Corning Incorporated press release dated October 3, 2006 regarding the election of Robert F. Cummings, Jr. to the Board of Directors is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference. The Corning Board Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee had recommended and nominated Mr. Cummings as a director candidate. At its October 3, 2006 meeting electing Mr. Cummings, the Corning Board concluded that he had no related party transactions with the company and qualified as independent.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed with this current report on Form 8-K. 99 Press Release issued by Corning Incorporated on October 3, 2006.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  OCTOBER 3, 2006
 Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) has announced that Robert F. Cummings, Jr., senior managing director at GSC Group, Inc., today was appointed to the company's board of directors.
CORNING, N.Y.
The Corning board also determined that he qualifies as an independent director. He will serve on the Corning board effective immediately, and will be a member of the board's finance and pension committees.
Cummings will hold office until Corning's annual meeting of shareholders on April 26, 2007, when it is expected that he will be nominated to serve a three-year term. His appointment brings the number of Corning directors to 16. The size of the board has ranged from 13 to 18 directors since 1990.
Cummings, 56, brings a broad business and financial perspective to the Corning board. He joined GSC Group, formerly GSC Partners, in 2002 as a managing director and is a member of the firm's Management Committee. For the preceding 28 years, he was with Goldman, Sachs & Co. where he was a member of the corporate finance department, advising corporate clients on financing; mergers and acquisitions; and strategic financial issues. Cummings became a partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1986, retired in 1998 and was retained as an advisor to work with select clients on a variety of banking matters.
Cummings is a director of ATSI Holdings, GSC Capital Corp., Precision Partners Inc., RR Donnelley and Sons Co., Viasystems Group Inc., and a member of the board of trustees of Union College.
He graduated from Union college with a B.A degree and from the University of Chicago with an MBA degree.
Page Two
Robert F. Cummings, Jr. Joins Corning Board of Directors
Corning Incorporated () is a diversified technology company that concentrates its efforts on high-impact growth opportunities. Corning combines its expertise in specialty glass, ceramic materials, polymers and the manipulation of the properties of light, with strong process and manufacturing capabilities to develop, engineer and commercialize significant innovative products for the telecommunications, flat panel display, environmental, semiconductor, and life sciences industries.
About Corning Incorporated
www.corning.com


