FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20090603163212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Corning Incorporated press release dated June 3, 2009 regarding the election of Carlos M. Gutierrez to the Board of Directors is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference. The Corning Board Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee had recommended and nominated Mr. Gutierrez as a director candidate. The Corning Board at its June 3, 2009 meeting concluded that he had no related party transactions with the company under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, qualified as independent, and named him to the Finance Committee and to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

News Release
FOR RELEASE  JUNE 3, 2009
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) has announced that Carlos M. Gutierrez, former U.S. Secretary of Commerce, today was appointed to the company's board of directors.
CORNING, N.Y. 
The Corning board also determined that he qualifies as an independent director. He will serve on the Corning board effective immediately. Secretary Gutierrez will hold office until Corning's annual meeting of shareholders on April 29, 2010, when it is expected that he will be nominated to serve a three-year term. His appointment brings the number of Corning directors to 15. The size of the board has ranged from 13 to 18 directors since 1990.
Gutierrez, 55, brings a broad government and business perspective to the Corning board. He served as U.S. Secretary of Commerce from February 2005 through January 2009. In that role, he also served as co-chair of the U.S. Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba. He served as chairman and chief executive officer of Kellogg Company from April 2000 through February 2005. He is a director of United Technologies Corporation, and he is also a member of the Board of Trustees the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
He studied business administration at the Monterrey Institute of Technology in Queretaro, Mexico.
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
About Corning Incorporated
www.corning.com


