FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20090331161524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 31, 2009, Corning Incorporated issued a press release announcing that the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors designated Mr. R. Tony Tripeny as principal accounting officer. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference. Mr. Tripeny was also named as an executive officer for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Act of 1934. To Corning Incorporateds knowledge, Mr. Tripeny has not received any waiver under Cornings codes of conduct and had no direct or indirect material interest in any reportable related party transactions with Corning. Mr. Tripeny assumes the role of principal accounting officer from Katherine A. Asbeck, who is retiring from that position as previously noted in a Form 8-K filed on December 12, 2008.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibit 99 Press Release dated March 31, 2009
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99
News Release
FOR RELEASE  MARCH 31, 2009
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) announced today that R. Tony Tripeny, vice president and corporate controller, has been designated by the executive committee of Corning's Board of Directors as principal accounting officer effective immediately. He assumes the role of principal accounting officer from Katherine A. Asbeck, who is retiring from that role as previously announced in December 2008.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Tripeny, 50, joined the company in 1985 as the corporate accounting manager for Corning Cable Systems. He was elected division vice president in 2004 and served as operations controller until 2005, when he was named vice president and corporate controller. In his new role, Tripeny will have responsibility for the company's external reporting, accounting policies, technical accounting services and internal control. He will oversee the internal audit function and serve as the primary liaison with the company's external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers. A resident of Corning, N.Y., Tripeny received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business. He is a member of the Financial Executives Institute and the Institute of Management Accounting.
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
About Corning Incorporated
www.corning.com
Kelli Hopp-Michlosky (607) 974-1657 hoppkc@corning.com
Media Relations Contact:


