FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20100505160415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
2010 VARIABLE COMPENSATION PLAN
At the annual meeting of shareholders held on April 29, 2010, the shareholders of the Company approved the 2010 Variable Compensation Plan (the "2010 Incentive Plan"). The following description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2010 Incentive Plan as set forth in Exhibit 99.1.
Purpose: The 2010 Incentive Plan is designed to provide a competitive incentive opportunity in order to attract and retain key executives. The 2010 Incentive Plan provides bonus compensation for those employees who have broad responsibilities for profits and performance at the worldwide corporate level and whose compensation may be subject to the scope of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code').
Administration: The 2010 Incentive Plan will be administered by a committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Board of Directors, consisting of at least three directors, each of whom is an "outside director," as such term is defined in regulations under Section 162(m) of the Code. The members of the Committee will serve as such without compensation other than the regular fees to which they are entitled for attending meetings of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof.
Eligibility and Participation: The participants in the 2010 Incentive Plan will be Corning's chief executive officer and other highly compensated executive officers whose compensation may be subject to the deductibility provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Payments under the 2010 Incentive Plan: No participant in the 2010 Incentive Plan may receive a payment for any fiscal year's performance in excess of $5,000,000.
How the 2010 Incentive Plan may be Amended or Terminated: The Board of Directors may amend, modify or terminate the 2010 Incentive Plan as it deems appropriate to meet the 2010 Incentive Plan's purposes, subject to shareholder approval to the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code, other applicable law, or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Termination Date: The 2010 Incentive Plan will terminate on May 1, 2015, unless earlier terminated by Corning's Board of Directors or replaced by a new plan.
2010 EQUITY PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS
At the annual meeting of shareholders held on April 29, 2010, the shareholders of the Company approved the 2010 Equity Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "2010 Plan"). The following description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2010 Plan as set forth in Exhibit 99.2.
Purpose: The 2010 Plan is designed to assist Corning in attracting, retaining and rewarding individuals to serve as its directors, to more closely align our directors' interests with those of our shareholders, and to provide incentives for our directors to exert maximum efforts for Corning's success.
Administration: The 2010 Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee"). The Committee will have broad discretionary authority (within the parameters specified in the 2010 Plan) including, but not limited to: determining the transferability of awards; interpreting the 2010 Plan's provisions; and administering the 2010 Plan in a manner that is consistent with its purpose.
Eligibility and Participation: Only persons who, at the time of an award of shares or the grant of an option, are directors and who are not employees of Corning or any affiliated entity are eligible to participate in the 2010 Plan.
Number of Shares to be Optioned or Granted under the 2010 Plan: Subject to adjustment as contemplated by the 2010 Plan, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be used for awards and the settlement of options is 1,250,000.
How the 2010 Plan may be Amended or Terminated: The Board of Directors may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the 2010 Plan at any time, provided, however, that such amendment may not (i) increase the number of shares of Common Stock available under the 2010 Plan, or (ii) reduce the exercise price of any option to less than 100% of the New York Stock Exchange closing price as of the date of grant or allow for "repricing" of options, unless such amendment is properly approved by the Company's shareholders. No amendment shall adversely affect any outstanding award or option without the holder's consent.
Termination Date: The 2010 Plan will terminate on May 1, 2020.
RETIREMENT AND CONTINUING BENEFITS TO JAMES R. HOUGHTON
On April 29, 2010, Mr. James R. Houghton retired from the Company's Board of Directors upon reaching our directors' mandatory retirement age of 74.
In connection with Mr. Houghton's service as Chairman of the Board Emeritus, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (consisting solely of independent directors) on April 28, 2010, approved his continuing to receive certain benefits and services, including a security system at his residence; travel expenses associated with business travel conducted at the Company's request; use of certain office space; salaries and benefits for administrative staff; office furniture, supplies and services; and computer/information technology services and expenses. The cost of the current and continuing services is estimated to be approximately $200,000 to $250,000 per year. Mr. Houghton also continues to be entitled to benefits as a retired employee of the Company. The Compensation Committee approved continuation of such benefits in recognition of Mr. Houghton's prior service to Corning.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
At the annual meeting of shareholders, on April 29, 2010, the shareholders of the Company approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated December 6, 2000, and filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New York on January 22, 2001, as amended by the Certificate of Amendment filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New York on August 5, 2002 (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), to declassify the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors approved further amendments to delete provisions that are no longer applicable and to make certain other clarifying and updating changes. The new Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and restated, is dated April 30, 2010 and was filed with the New York Secretary of State on May 4, 2010 (the "Restated Certificate of Incorporation"). Additionally, on April 29, 2010 and effective on that day, the Board of Directors amended the Company's By-Laws to reflect the declassification of the Board of Directors and to make other clarifications.
The amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation include:
The amendments to the By-Laws include:
Directors:
Miscellaneous:
The Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated April 30, 2010 and filed with the Secretary of State of New York on May 4, 2010, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(i)1; and the previous Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated December 6, 2000 and filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New York on January 22, 2001, and the Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New York on August 5, 2002 are attached hereto as Exhibit 3(i)2 and Exhibit 3(i)3, respectively. The By-Laws as amended to and effective as of April 29, 2010 are attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii)1; and the previous By-Laws, effective as of February 4, 2009, are attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii)2. The foregoing description of the Certificate of Amendment and the By-Laws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Certificate of Incorporation attached hereto as Exhibit 3(i)1 and the By-Laws attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii)1.
ITEM 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
(a)  (c) Our annual meeting of shareholders was held on April 29, 2010. At that meeting, shareholders elected Robert F. Cummings, Jr., Carlos M. Gutierrez, William D. Smithburg, Hansel E. Tookes II and Wendell P. Weeks as directors for terms expiring at our annual meeting of shareholders in 2013. Shareholders also voted to ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2010, in favor of the 2010 Variable Compensation Plan, 2010 Equity Plan for Non-Employee Directors, and the amendment and restatement of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board of Directors. In addition, shareholders voted in favor of the shareholder proposal requesting the Board to amend each shareholder voting requirement in the Company's charter and bylaws calling for a greater than simple majority vote to a majority of votes cast. Those elected and the results of voting are as follows:
NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
John Seely Brown, Gordon Gund, Kurt M. Landgraf and H. Onno Ruding continued as directors for terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2011, and James B. Flaws, James J. O'Connor, Deborah D. Rieman, Peter F. Volanakis, and Mark S. Wrighton continued as directors for terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2012.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 3(i)1
WE, WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being respectively, the Chairman and Secretary of Corning Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated. It was incorporated under the name of Corning Glass Works.
SECOND: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (being the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation Forming the Corporation) was filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of New York on December 24, 1936.
THIRD: The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, is further amended as follows:
1. To delete paragraphs 4A. Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, 4B. Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, and 4C. Series C 7% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, relating to the shares of the Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and Series C 7% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, none of which shares of Preferred Stock is currently outstanding and none of which will be issued subject to the Certificate of Incorporation;
2. To amend the second paragraph of paragraph 5(a) and paragraph 5(b) to provide for the declassification of the Board of Directors, which amendment was authorized by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders held on April 29, 2010; and
3. To amend the numbering of the paragraphs of the Certificate of Incorporation in connection with the foregoing amendments.
FOURTH: To effect the foregoing amendments, the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, is hereby amended and restated to read as follows:
1. The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated.
2. The purposes for which the Corporation is to be formed are:
To make, manufacture, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with glass, glassware, refractory, ceramic, plastic, wood and metal products, chemicals and related products, electrical, electronic and other related products, machinery, tools, materials and other articles and products, including those materials which are or may be necessary or useful for the manufacture of any of the products hereinbefore mentioned or in addition thereto; to conduct scientific and technological research; and to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and to sell, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with any and all interest in real and personal property of any and all kinds, tangible or intangible, including patent rights, inventions, secret processes and other similar property.
3. In the absence of actual fraud or bad faith, no contract or transaction between the Corporation and any other association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any of the directors or officers of this Corporation are interested in or are directors or officers of such other association or corporation, and any director or officer of this Corporation individually may be a party to or may be interested in any such contract or transaction of this Corporation and no such contract or transaction of this Corporation with any person or persons, firm, association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any director or officer of this Corporation is a party to or interested in such contract or transaction or in any way connected with such person or persons, firm, association or corporation, and each and every person who may become a director or officer of this Corporation is hereby relieved from any liability that might otherwise exist from thus contracting with the Corporation for the benefit of himself or any person, firm, association or corporation in which he may be in anywise interested unless it be shown that he acted in the transaction in bad faith.
4. 
(a)
The total number of shares which the Corporation may henceforth have is 3,810,000,000, of which 10,000,000 shares are to have a par value of $100 each and 3,800,000,000 are to have a par value of $.50 each, which shares shall be classified as follows:
(i) 10,000,000 shares, of the par value of $100 each, are to be Series Preferred Stock; and
(ii) 3,800,000,000 shares, of the par value of $.50 each, are to be Common Stock.
The relative voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each class are as follows:
(b) The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have the number of shares and designation, and the shares of each such series to have such relative rights, preferences or limitations, as the Board of Directors, subject to the limitations prescribed by law or provided herein, may from time to time fix, before issuance, by delivering an appropriate certificate of amendment to the Department of State pursuant to the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, the fixing of the following:
(i) The number of shares to constitute the series and the distinctive designation thereof;
(ii) The dividend rate on the shares of the series; whether dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from what date or dates;
(iii) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be redeemable and, if redeemable, the terms upon which the shares of the series may be redeemed and the premium, if any, over and above the par value thereof and any dividends accrued thereon which the shares of the series shall be entitled to receive upon the redemption thereof;
(iv) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be subject to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such shares for retirement and, if such retirement or sinking fund be established, the annual amount thereof and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
(v) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be convertible into shares of any class or classes of stock of the Corporation, with or without par value, or of any other series of the same class and, if convertible, the conversion price or prices or the rate at which such conversion may be made and the method, if any, of adjusting the same;
(vi) The rights of the shares of the series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation;
(vii) The restrictions, if any, on the payment of dividends upon, and the making of the distributions to any class of stock ranking junior to the shares of the series, and the restrictions, if any, on the purchase or redemption of the shares of any such junior class;
(viii) Whether the series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights; and
(ix) Any other relative rights, preferences and limitations of the series.
(c) Holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, dividends at the rates fixed by the Board of Directors for the respective series, before any dividends shall be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, on any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock either as to dividends or assets, with respect to the same dividend period.
(d) Whenever, at any time, dividends on the then outstanding Preferred Stock as may be required by the terms of the certificate creating the series representing the shares outstanding shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment on the then outstanding Preferred Stock and after complying with all the provisions with respect to any retirement or sinking fund or funds for any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors may, subject to the provisions of any certificate creating any series of Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends on any other class or classes of stock, declare and pay dividends on the Common Stock, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
(e) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, after payment, if any is required, shall have been made in full to the Preferred Stock as provided in any certificate creating any series thereof, but not prior thereto, the Common Stock shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions, if any, of any such certificate, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
(f) No holder of Common Stock or any series of Preferred Stock shall, as such holder, have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to any stock of any class of the Corporation or to any obligations convertible into any such stock or to any right of subscription to, or to any warrant or option for, the purchase of any stock, other than such, if any, as the Board of Directors of the Corporation in its discretion may determine from time to time.
(g) The holders of the Common Stock shall have the right to vote on all questions to the exclusion of all other classes of stock, except as by law expressly provided or as otherwise expressly provided with respect to the holders of any other class or classes of stock.
5. 
(a)
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by a Board of Directors consisting of not less than nine nor more than twenty-four persons. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. As used in this Certificate of Incorporation, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total authorized number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding: (i) each director elected at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; (ii) each director elected at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; (iii) each director elected at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; and (iv) at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and each Annual Meeting of Stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such director is elected and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
(b) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of a director or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such director, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the entire Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
(c) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by this paragraph 5 unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
(d) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Certificate of Incorporation and subject to the other provisions of this paragraph 5, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the Corporation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the Corporation, and shall determine the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board actions.
(f) The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of this paragraph 5 including this paragraph (f); , , that this paragraph (f) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal, or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
provided
however
6. 
(a)
.
Certain Definitions
For the purposes of this paragraph 6:
(i) "Business Combination" shall mean:
(A) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary with (1) an Interested Stockholder or (2) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder; or
(B) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; or
(C) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; or
(D) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder; or
(E) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any Subsidiary or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Stockholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the percentage of the outstanding shares of (1) any class of equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or (2) any class of securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary convertible into equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, represented by securities of such class which are directly or indirectly owned by an Interested Stockholder and all of its Affiliates and Associates; or
(F) any agreement, contract or other arrangement providing for any one or more of the actions specified in clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph 6(a)(i).
(ii) "" or "" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), as in effect on January 1, 1985.
Affiliate
Associate
Exchange Act
(iii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on January 1, 1985.
Beneficial Owner
(iv) "" shall mean (A) any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation who (1) is neither the Interested Stockholder involved in the Business Combination as to which a vote of Continuing Directors is provided hereunder, nor an Affiliate, Associate, employee, agent or nominee of such Interested Stockholder, or the relative of any of the foregoing, and (2) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation prior to the time that such Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, (B) any successor of a Continuing Director described in clause (A) who is recommended or elected to succeed a Continuing Director by the affirmative vote of a majority of Continuing Directors then on the Board of Directors of the Corporation, and (C) any person who is elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the 1985 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and any successor thereto who is recommended or elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Continuing Director
(v) "" shall mean: (A) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for the New York Stock ExchangeListed Stocks, or, if such stock is not reported on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., Automated Quotations System or any similar inter-dealer quotation system then in use, or if no such quotation is available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors in good faith; and (B) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors in good faith.
Fair Market Value
(vi) "" shall mean any Person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
Interested Stockholder
(A) is, or was at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation; or
(B) is an assignee of, or has otherwise succeeded to, any shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation of which an Interested Stockholder was the Beneficial Owner at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction, or series of transactions, not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
For the purpose of determining whether a Person is an Interested Stockholder, the outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation shall include unissued shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation of which the Interested Stockholder is the Beneficial Owner but shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, to any Person who is not the Interested Stockholder.
(vii) A "" shall mean any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section 14(d) (2) of the Exchange Act.
Person
(viii) "" shall mean any corporation of which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, (i) a majority of the outstanding shares of equity securities of such corporation, or (ii) shares having a majority of the voting power represented by all of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of such corporation. For the purpose of determining whether a corporation is a Subsidiary, the outstanding Voting Stock and shares of equity securities thereof shall include unissued shares of which the Corporation is the Beneficial Owner but, except for the purposes of paragraph 6(a)(vi), shall not include any other shares which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, to any Person who is not the Corporation.
Subsidiary
(ix) "" shall mean outstanding shares of capital stock of the relevant corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Voting Stock
.
(b) Higher Vote for Business Combinations
In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or by this Certificate of Incorporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in paragraph 6(c), any Business Combination shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation, voting together as a single class, it being understood that, for purposes of this paragraph 6, each share of the Voting Stock of the Corporation shall have the number of votes granted to it pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Certificate of Incorporation. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
.
(c) When Higher Vote is Not Required
The provisions paragraph 6(b) shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote, if any, of the stockholders as is required by law and any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, if the conditions specified in either of the following paragraphs (i) and (ii) are met:
(i) Approval by Continuing Directors. The Business Combination shall have been approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, even if the Continuing Directors do not constitute a quorum of the entire Board of Directors.
(ii) Form of Consideration, Price and Procedure Requirements. All of the following conditions shall have been met:
(A) With respect to each share of each class of Voting Stock of the Corporation (including Common Stock), the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive on or before the date of the consummation of the Business Combination (the ""), consideration, in the form specified in paragraph 6(c)(ii) hereof, with an aggregate Fair Market Value as of the Consummation Date at least equal to the highest of the following:
Consummation Date
(1) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder to which the Business Combination relates, or by any Affiliate or Associate of such Interested Stockholder, for any shares of such class of Voting Stock acquired by it (a) within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposal of the Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or (b) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher;
(2) the Fair Market Value per share of such class of Voting Stock of the Corporation on the Announcement Date; and
(3) the highest preferential amount per share, if any, to which the holders of shares of such class of Voting Stock of the Corporation are entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation.
(B) The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation (including Common Stock) as described in paragraph 6(c)(ii) hereof shall be in cash or if the consideration previously paid by or on behalf of the Interested Stockholder in connection with its acquisition of beneficial ownership of shares of such class of Voting Stock consisted in whole or in part of consideration other than cash, then in the same form as such consideration. If such payment for shares of any class of Voting Stock of the Corporation has been made with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration for such class of Voting Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the beneficial ownership of the largest number of shares of such class of Voting Stock previously acquired by the Interested Stockholder.
(C) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder and prior to the Consummation Date of such Business Combination: (1) except as approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) on the outstanding preferred stock of the Corporation, if any; (2) there shall have been (a) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock of the Corporation (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common Stock ) except as approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, and (b) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split), recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, unless the failure so to increase such annual rate is approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors; and (3) such Interested Stockholder shall not have become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation except as part of the transaction which results in such an Interested Stockholder becoming an Interested Stockholder.
(D) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder, such Interested Stockholder shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder of the Corporation), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation.
(E) A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the General Rules and Regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to the stockholders of the Corporation at least 45 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions thereof).
.
(d) Powers of Continuing Directors
A majority of the Continuing Directors shall have the power and duty to determine, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this paragraph 6, including, without limitation, (i) whether a person is an Interested Stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by any person, (iii) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (iv) whether the requirements of paragraph 6(c)(ii) have been met with respect to any Business Combination, and (v) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; and the good faith determination of a majority of the Continuing Directors on such matters shall be conclusive and binding for all the purposes of this paragraph 6.
.
(e) No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations
(i) Nothing contained in this paragraph 6 shall be construed to relieve the members of the Board of Directors or an Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
(ii) The fact that any Business Combination complies with the provisions of paragraph 6(c) shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, to approve such Business Combination or recommend its adoption or approval to the stockholders of the Corporation, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such Business Combination.
.
(f) Amendment or Repeal
The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of this paragraph 6; , , that this paragraph 6(f) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors and a majority of the Continuing Directors.
provided
however
7. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for damages for any breach of duty as a director, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Business Corporation Law as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any repeal or modification of this paragraph 7 by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not affect adversely any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
8. The office of the Corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York. The Secretary of State of the State of New York is designated as the agent of the Corporation upon whom process in any action or proceeding against it may be served, and the address within the State to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of process in any action or proceeding against the Corporation which may be served upon him is One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, New York, 14831, Attention of the Secretary.
FIFTH: The amendment of the second paragraph of paragraph 5(a) and paragraph 5(b) to provide for the declassification of the Board of Directors was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors at a meeting duly called and held on February 3, 2010, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout, and, thereafter, such amendment was authorized by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders held on April 29, 2010. To effect such amendments and the other amendments reflected herein, the amendment and restatement of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting thereof duly called and held on April 29, 2010 at which a quorum was present and acting throughout.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have signed this Certificate this 30 day of April, 2010.
th
WENDELL P. WEEKS Chairman
/S/ WENDELL P. WEEKS
DENISE A. HAUSELT Secretary
/S/ DENISE A. HAUSELT
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF STEUBEN
WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being severally duly sworn, say, and each for himself or herself says, that the said Wendell P. Weeks is the Chairman and the said Denise A. Hauselt is the Secretary of Corning Incorporated, which is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York and is the corporation described in the foregoing Certificate; that they have read the said Certificate and know the contents thereof and that the same is true to their own knowledge.
WENDELL P. WEEKS Chairman
/S/ WENDELL P. WEEKS
DENISE A. HAUSELT Secretary
/S/ DENISE A. HAUSELT
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 30 day of April, 2010.
th
Sherry L. Smith
/S/ SHERRY L. SMITH
Notary Public, State of New York Qualified in Steuben County, No. 5009667 My Commission Expires March 15, 2011

Exhibit 3(i)2
We, ROGER G. ACKERMAN and A. JOHN PECK, JR., being, respectively, the President and the Secretary of Corning Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated. It was incorporated under the name of Corning Glass Works.
SECOND: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (being the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation Forming the Corporation) was filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of New York on December 24, 1936.
THIRD: The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended heretofore, is hereby restated without further amendment to read as follows:
1. The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated.
2. The purposes for which the Corporation is to be formed are:
To make, manufacture, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with glass, glassware, refractory, ceramic, plastic, wood and metal products, chemicals and related products, electrical, electronic and other related products, machinery, tools, materials and other articles and products, including those materials which are or may be necessary or useful for the manufacture of any of the products hereinbefore mentioned or in addition thereto; to conduct scientific and technological research; and to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and to sell, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with any and all interest in real and personal property of any and all kinds, tangible or intangible, including patent rights, inventions, secret processes and other similar property.
3. In the absence of actual fraud or bad faith, no contract or transaction between the Corporation and any other association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any of the directors or officers of this Corporation are interested in or are directors or officers of such other association or corporation, and any director or officer of this Corporation individually may be a party to or may be interested in any such contract or transaction of this Corporation and no such contract or transaction of this Corporation with any person or persons, firm, association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any director or officer of this Corporation is a party to or interested in such contract or transaction or in any way connected with such person or persons, firm, association or corporation, and each and every person who may become a director or officer of this Corporation is hereby relieved from any liability that might otherwise exist from thus contracting with the Corporation for the benefit of himself or any person, firm, association or corporation in which he may be in anywise interested unless it be shown that he acted in the transaction in bad faith.
4. The total number of shares which the Corporation may henceforth have is 3,800,000,000, of which 10,000,000 shares are to have a par value of $100 each and 3,800,000,000 are to have a par value of $.50 each, which shares shall be classified as follows:
10,000,000 shares, of the par value of $100 each, are to be Series Preferred Stock; and
3,800,000,000 shares, of the par value of $.50 each, are to be Common Stock.
The relative voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each class are as follows:
I. The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have the number of shares and designation, and the shares of each such series to have such relative rights, preferences or limitations, as the Board of Directors, subject to the limitations prescribed by law or provided herein, may from time to time fix, before issuance, by delivering an appropriate certificate of amendment to the Department of State pursuant to the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, the fixing of the following:
a) The number of shares to constitute the series and the distinctive designation thereof;
(b) The dividend rate on the shares of the series; whether dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from what date or dates;
(c) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be redeemable and, if redeemable, the terms upon which the shares of the series may be redeemed and the premium, if any, over and above the par value thereof and any dividends accrued thereon which the shares of the series shall be entitled to receive upon the redemption thereof;
(d) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be subject to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such shares for retirement and, if such retirement or sinking fund be established, the annual amount thereof and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
(e) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be convertible into shares of any class or classes of stock of the Corporation, with or without par value, or of any other series of the same class and, if convertible, the conversion price or prices or the rate at which such conversion may be made and the method, if any, of adjusting the same;
(f) The rights of the shares of the series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation;
(g) The restrictions, if any, on the payment of dividends upon, and the making of the distributions to any class of stock ranking junior to the shares of the series, and the restrictions, if any, on the purchase or redemption of the shares of any such junior class;
(h) Whether the series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights; and
(i)  Any other relative rights, preferences and limitations of the series.
II. Holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, dividends at the rates fixed by the Board of Directors for the respective series, before any dividends shall be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, on any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock either as to dividends or assets, with respect to the same dividend period.
III. Whenever, at any time, dividends on the then outstanding Preferred Stock as may be required by the terms of the certificate creating the series representing the shares outstanding shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment on the then outstanding Preferred Stock and after complying with all the provisions with respect to any retirement or sinking fund or funds for any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors may, subject to the provisions of any certificate creating any series of Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends on any other class or classes of stock, declare and pay dividends on the Common Stock, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
IV. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, after payment, if any is required, shall have been made in full to the Preferred Stock as provided in any certificate creating any series thereof, but not prior thereto, the Common Stock shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions, if any, of any such certificate, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
V. No holder of Common Stock or any series of Preferred Stock shall, as such holder, have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to any stock of any class of the Corporation or to any obligations convertible into any such stock or to any right of subscription to, or to any warrant or option for, the purchase of any stock, other than such, if any, as the Board of Directors of the Corporation in its discretion may determine from time to time.
VI. The holders of the Common Stock shall have the right to vote on all questions to the exclusion of all other classes of stock, except as by law expressly provided or as otherwise expressly provided with respect to the holders of any other class or classes of stock.
4A. Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
  (1)   An aggregate of 2,400,000 shares of Series Preferred Stock, par value $100, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a series designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock").
Designation and Amount.
(2)   
Dividends and Distributions.
(a) Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of January, April, July and October in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $10 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution of the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
(c) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
(3)   The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights.
(a) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 100 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Amendment establishing a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the Corporation.
(c) Except as set forth herein, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights.
(4)   
Certain Restrictions.
(a) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
(i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
(ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding-up) to the Series A preferred Stock; or
(iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(b) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (a) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
(5)   Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation, in any other Certificate of Amendment establishing a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares.
(6)   Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (i) to the holder of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (ii) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or wind-up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the provision in clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Liquidation, Dissolution, or Winding-Up.
(7)   In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property, as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
(8)   The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
Redemption.
(9)   The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets to all series of any class of Preferred Stock or any similar stock that specifically provide that they shall rank prior to the Series A Preferred Stock. Nothing herein shall preclude the Board from creating any series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets.
Rank.
(10)   The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect such Series adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single series.
Amendment.
4B. Series B Convertible Preferred Stock
(1)  
  Designation and Amount; Special Purpose Restricted Transfer Issue.
(a) The shares of this series of Preferred Stock shall be designated as "Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock" ("Series B Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 316,822 with a par value of $100 per share.
(b) Shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee acting on behalf of an employee benefit plan of the Corporation. In the event of any transfer of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to any person other than any such plan trustee (including, without limitation, a transfer resulting from a distribution to participants of an employee benefit plan), the shares of Series B Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Corporation or the holder, shall be automatically converted into shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, par value $1 per share ("Common Stock"), on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of shares of Series B Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 5 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to the shares of Series B Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, shall have only the powers and rights pertaining to the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have been so converted. The transferee of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock after such automatic conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series B Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as at the date thereof; , that the pledge of Series B Preferred Stock by such an employee benefit plan of the Corporation shall not constitute a transfer for the purposes of this Section 1; however, that any sale of, collection from or other realization upon any pledged shares of Series B Preferred Stock by a pledgee shall constitute a transfer for the purposes of this Section 1. Certificates representing shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be legended to reflect the foregoing provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of Series B Preferred Stock (i) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by Section 5 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Corporation upon the terms and conditions provided by Sections 6, 7, and 8 hereof.
provided, however
provided, further,
(2)   
Dividends and Distributions.
(a)(i)  The holders of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation out of funds legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends ("Preferred Dividends") in an amount per share per annum equal to $8.00.
(ii) Such amounts shall be payable quarterly in arrears, one-quarter on each of the 31st day of March, the 30th day of June, the 30th day of September and the 31st day of December of each year (or on the next succeeding Business Day (as defined herein) if such date is not a Business Day) (each a "Dividend Payment Date") commencing on December 31, 1989, to holders of record at the start of business on such Dividend Payment Date. Preferred Dividends shall begin to accrue on outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock from the date of issuance of such shares of Series B Preferred Stock. Preferred Dividends shall accrue on a daily basis whether or not the Corporation shall have earnings or surplus at the time, but Preferred Dividends accrued after the date of issuance thereof on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock for any period less than a full three-month period between Dividend Payment Dates shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of 30-day months. Accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends shall cumulate as of the Dividend Payment Date on which they first become payable, but no interest shall accrue on accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends.
(b) So long as any Series B Preferred Stock shall be outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any other series of stock ranking on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividends, unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for payment on the Series B Preferred Stock like dividends for all dividend payment periods of the Series B Preferred Stock ending on or before the dividend payment date of such parity stock, ratably in proportion to the respective amounts of dividends accrued and unpaid through such dividend payment period on the Series B Preferred Stock and accrued and unpaid on such parity stock through the dividend payment period on such parity stock next preceding such dividend payment date. In the event that full cumulative dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid or set apart for payment when due, the Corporation shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends or make any other distributions on, or make any payment on account of, the purchase, redemption or other retirement of any other class of stock or series thereof of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends or as to distributions in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, junior to the Series B Preferred Stock until full cumulative dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment; , that the foregoing shall not apply to (i) any dividend payable solely in any shares of any stock ranking, as to dividends and as to distributions in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, junior to the Series B Preferred Stock, (ii) the acquisition of shares of any stock ranking, as to dividends or as to distributions in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, junior to the Series B Preferred Stock either (A) pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted or (B) in exchange solely for shares of any other stock ranking, as to dividends or as to distributions in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, junior to the Series B Preferred Stock, or (iii) any payment made in respect of any redemption or purchase of Rights, as defined in paragraph (f) of Section 5 hereof, or any rights similar thereto.
provided, however
(3)  The holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
  Voting Rights.
(a) The holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the number of votes equal to the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series B Preferred Stock could be converted on the record date of determining the stockholders entitled to vote, without rounding for fractional votes; it being understood that whenever the "Conversion Price" (as defined in Section 5 hereof) is adjusted as provided in Section 9 hereof, the voting rights of the Series B Preferred Stock shall also be similarly adjusted.
(b) Except as otherwise required by law or set forth herein, holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock and holders of any other class or series of stock that may similarly be entitled to vote with the shares of Common Stock) for the taking of any corporate action. So long as any shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, the consent of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, given in person or by proxy, either at a regular meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose, at which the holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall vote separately as a series, shall be necessary for effecting, validating or authorizing any one or more of the following:
(i) the amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation, or any amendment thereto or any other certificate filed pursuant to law (including any such alteration, amendment or repeal effected by any merger or consolidation to which the Corporation is a party) that would adversely affect any of the rights, powers or preferences of outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock; or
(ii) any merger or consolidation with or into, or any sale, transfer, exchange or lease of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation to, any other corporation, in either case that would adversely affect any of the rights, powers or preferences of outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock.
(4)  
  Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding-Up.
(a) Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, the holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive out of assets of the Corporation available for payment to stockholders and subject to the rights of the holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to or on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, before any amount shall be paid or distributed among the holders of Common Stock or any other shares ranking junior to the Series B Preferred Stock in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $100 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for distribution. If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, the amounts payable with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock and any other stock ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock are not paid in full, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and such other stock shall share ratably in any distribution of assets in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount to which they are entitled as provided by the foregoing provisions of this Section 4(a), the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
(b) Neither the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor the sale, transfer, exchange or lease of all or any portion of the assets of the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation for purposes of this Section 4, but the holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be entitled in the event of any such merger or consolidation to the rights provided by Section 8 hereof.
(c) Written notice of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where, the amounts distributable to holders of Series B Preferred Stock in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than twenty days prior to any payment date stated therein, to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock, at the address shown on the books of the Corporation or the transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock; , that a failure to give notice as provided above or any defect therein shall not affect the Corporation's ability to consummate a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation.
provided, however
(5)  
  Conversion into Common Stock.
(a) A holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled, at any time prior to the close of business on any date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Section 6, 7, or 8 hereof (whether or not such Series B Preferred Stock is subject to a notice of redemption), to cause any or all of such shares to be converted into fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock, initially at a conversion ratio equal to the number derived by dividing $100.00 by a denominator initially equal to $50.00, which denominator shall be adjusted as provided in Section 9 hereof (such denominator, as it may be so adjusted, the "Conversion Price"). Whenever the Conversion Price shall be adjusted as provided in Section 9 hereof, the conversion ratio described above shall be correspondingly adjusted. In no event shall the Conversion Price be less than the aggregate amount necessary to constitute the par value of the shares of Common Stock into which a share of Series B Preferred Stock is convertible.
(b) Any holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock desiring to convert such shares into shares of Common Stock shall surrender the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Series B Preferred Stock being converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto), at the principal executive office of the Corporation or the offices of the transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock by the Corporation or the transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock, accompanied by written notice of conversion, on any date that is a Business Day in New York, New York. Such notice of conversion shall specify (i) the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be converted and the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and for any shares of Series B Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued (subject to compliance with applicable legal requirements if any of such certificates are to be issued in a name other than the name of the holder), and (ii) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion.
(c) Upon surrender of a certificate representing a share or shares of Series B Preferred Stock for conversion, the Corporation shall issue and send by hand delivery (with receipt to be acknowledged) or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the holder thereof, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. In the event that there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of Series B Preferred Stock, only part of which are to be converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder's designee in the manner provided in the immediately preceding sentence a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock that shall not have been converted.
(d) The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of Series B Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made at the option of the holder thereof shall be effective upon the surrender by such holder or such holder's designee of the certificate or certificates for the shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto). On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock of record on any date prior to such effective date. The Corporation shall not be obligated to pay any dividends that shall have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock on a Dividend Payment Date if such Dividend Payment Date for such dividend is subsequent to the effective date of conversion of such shares.
(e) The Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of Series B Preferred Stock any fractional shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of Series B Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in an amount equal to such fraction multiplied by the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock (as defined in Section 9 hereof) at the close of business on the day of conversion, or in any other manner permitted by law.
(f)  Whenever the Corporation shall issue shares of Common Stock upon conversion of shares of Series B Preferred Stock as contemplated by this Section 5, the Corporation shall issue, together with each such share of Common Stock, one right to purchase Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation (or other securities in lieu thereof) pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 2, 1986 (the "Rights Agreement"), between the Corporation and Chase Lincoln First Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent, as such Rights Agreement may from time to time be amended, or any similar rights issued to holders of Common Stock of the Corporation in addition thereto or in replacement therefor (such rights, together with any such additional or replacement rights, being collectively referred to as the "Rights"), whether or not such Rights shall be exercisable at such time, but only if such rights are issued and outstanding and held by other holders of Common Stock of the Corporation (or are evidenced by outstanding share certificates representing Common Stock) at such time and have not expired or been redeemed.
(g) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series B Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion of shares of Series B Preferred Stock, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock reacquired and held in the treasury of the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such treasury shares are free and clear of all liens, charges, security interests or encumbrances. The Corporation shall prepare and shall use its best efforts to obtain and keep in force such governmental or regulatory permits or other authorizations as may be required by law, and shall comply with all applicable requirements as to registration or qualification of the Common Stock (and all requirements to list the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of Series B Preferred Stock that are at the time applicable), in order to enable the Corporation lawfully to issue and deliver to each holder of record of Series B Preferred Stock such number of shares of its Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all shares of Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding and convertible into shares of Common Stock.
(6)  
  Redemption at the Option of the Corporation.
(a) The Series B Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, out of funds legally available therefor, at the option of the Corporation at any time after September 30, 1992, or on or before September 30, 1992, if permitted by paragraph (c) or (d) of this Section 6, at the following redemption prices per share:
and thereafter at $100 per share, plus, in each case, an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Corporation in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (e) of this Section 6. From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of Series B Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue, such shares will no longer be deemed to be outstanding and all rights in respect of such shares of the Corporation shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price, provided that shares of Series B Preferred Stock may be converted pursuant to Section 5 hereof at any time prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 6, 7 or 8 hereof. If less than all of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the Corporation shall either redeem a portion of the shares of each holder determined pro rata based on the number of shares held by each holder or shall select the shares to be redeemed by lot, as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(b) Unless otherwise required by law, notice of redemption will be sent to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Corporation or any transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than twenty, nor more than sixty days prior to the redemption date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vi) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised, and the Conversion Price and number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of Series B Preferred Stock on the date such notice is sent. Upon surrender of the certificates for any shares so called for redemption and not previously converted (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 6.
(c) In the event (i) the Corporation terminates an employee benefit plan that holds Series B Preferred Stock as a result of the failure of the plan to obtain the approval of the Internal Revenue Service as a "qualified plan" under Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), under circumstances permitting a return of employer contributions under Section 403(c)(2)(B) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), or (ii) the Corporation, in good faith after consultation with counsel to the Corporation, determines that the voting provisions contained herein are not in compliance with Rule 19c-4 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), the Corporation may, in its sole discretion and notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, elect to redeem any or all of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock, out of funds legally available therefor, for the amount of $100 per share plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and otherwise on the terms and conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 6.
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph (a) of this Section 6, the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, elect to redeem any or all of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at any time on or prior to September 30, 1992 on the terms and conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 6, out of funds legally available therefor, if the last reported sales price, regular way, of a share of Common Stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which such stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ, for at least twenty trading days within a period of thirty consecutive trading days ending within five days of the notice of redemption, equals or exceeds one hundred fifty percent of the Conversion Price (after giving effect in making such calculation to any adjustments required by Section 9 hereof).
(e) The Corporation, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in any combination of such shares and cash, with any such shares to be valued for such purpose at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (g) of Section 9 hereof; , that in calculating their Fair Market Value, the Adjustment Period shall be deemed to be the five consecutive trading days preceding the date of redemption), except that any payment required to be made under paragraph (c) of Section 8 hereof shall be made in cash.
provided, however
(7)  
  Other Redemption Rights.
Shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be redeemed by the Corporation for cash or, if the Corporation so elects, in shares of Common Stock, or a combination of cash and such shares, with any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purpose as provided by paragraph (e) of Section 6 hereof, out of funds legally available therefor, at a redemption price of $100 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, at the option of the holder, at any time and from time to time upon notice to the Corporation given not less than five business days prior to the date fixed by the holder in such notice for such redemption, when and to the extent necessary (i) for such holder to provide for distributions required to be made to participants under, or to satisfy an investment election provided to participants in accordance with, the provisions of an employee benefit plan of the Corporation pursuant to which the Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed is held or (ii) for such holder to make payment of principal, interest or premium due and payable (whether as scheduled or upon acceleration) on indebtedness of the trust under such plan or any indebtedness incurred by the holder for the benefit of such plan (but only if necessary to remedy or prevent a default thereunder).
(8)  
  Consolidation, Merger, etc.
(a) In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any consolidation, merger, reclassification or similar transaction, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting company (including stock of the Corporation) that constitutes "qualifying employer securities" with respect to a holder of Series B Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 407(d)(5) of ERISA, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, the shares of Series B Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger, reclassification or similar transaction, be assumed by and shall become validly issued and authorized preferred stock of such successor or resulting company, having in respect of such company insofar as reasonably practicable the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 6, 7 and 8 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the Series B Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, except that after such transaction each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the same terms and conditions provided by Section 5 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series B Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election to receive any kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (other than such qualifying employer securities and a cash payment, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares) receivable upon such transaction (provided that, if the kind or amount of qualifying employer securities receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of qualifying employer securities receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares). The rights of the Series B Preferred Stock as preferred stock of such successor or resulting company shall successively be subject to adjustments pursuant to Section 9 hereof after any such transaction as nearly equivalent as reasonably practicable to the adjustments provided for by such section prior to such transaction. The Corporation shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation, reclassification or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall become validly issued and authorized by the successor or resulting company as aforesaid.
(b) In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any consolidation, merger, reclassification or similar transaction, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock, securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration that is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 8) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of Series B preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Corporation or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 8), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation, reclassification or similar transaction immediately prior to the consummation thereof into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series B Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of Series B Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction (provided that, if the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares).
(c) In the event that the Corporation shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation, merger, reclassification or similar transaction described in paragraph (b) of this Section 8, then the Corporation shall, as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least ten Business Days before consummation of such transaction), give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of Series B Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Corporation, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Corporation or the successor of the Corporation, out of funds legally available therefor, in redemption and retirement of such Series B Preferred Stock and in lieu of what would otherwise result under paragraph (b) of this Section 8, a cash payment equal to the amount of $100 per share plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Corporation prior to the close of business on the fifth Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Corporation or the successor of the Corporation shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Corporation prior to the close of business on the fifth Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.
(9)  
  Anti-dilution Adjustments.
(a) In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time, while any of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend or make a distribution in respect of the Common Stock, to the extent that such dividend or distribution consists of shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, in each case whether by reclassification of shares, recapitalization of the Corporation (excluding a recapitalization effected by a merger or consolidation to which Section 8 hereof applies) or otherwise, the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such event and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event. An adjustment made pursuant to this paragraph 9(a) shall be given effect, upon payment of such a dividend or distribution, as of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or distribution (on a retroactive basis) and in the case of a subdivision or combination shall become effective immediately as of the effective date thereof.
(b) In the event that the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue to holders of shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution, including by way of a reclassification of shares or a recapitalization of the Corporation, any right or warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock (but not including as such a right or warrant any Rights (as defined in paragraph (f) of Section 5 hereof) or any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock), such right or warrant by its terms enabling the holder thereof to acquire shares of Common Stock at a purchase price per share less than the Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) of a share of Common Stock on the date of issuance of such right or warrant, then, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Section 9, the Conversion Price shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of rights or warrants plus the number of shares of Common Stock that could be purchased at the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the time of such issuance for the maximum aggregate consideration payable upon exercise in full of all such rights or warrants and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of rights or warrants plus the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that could be acquired upon exercise in full of all such rights and warrants.
(c) In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue, sell or exchange shares of Common Stock (other than pursuant to the Rights Agreement or any other right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock (including as such a right or warrant any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) and other than pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement, including any employment, severance or consulting agreement, of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted) for a consideration having a Fair Market Value on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange less than the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange, then, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Section 9, the Conversion Price shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the sum of (i) the Fair Market Value of all the shares of Common Stock outstanding on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange plus (ii) the Fair Market Value of the consideration received by the Corporation in respect of such issuance, sale or exchange of shares of Common Stock, and the denominator of which shall be the product of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange multiplied by (b) the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such day plus the number of shares of Common Stock so issued, sold or exchanged by the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time, while any shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue, sell or exchange any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock (including as such a right or warrant any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock), other than any Rights, any such issuance to holders of shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution (including by way of a reclassification of shares or a recapitalization of the Corporation) and other than pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted, such right or warrant being issued for a consideration having a Fair Market Value, on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange, less than the Non-dilutive Amount (as hereinafter defined), then, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Section 9, the Conversion Price shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the sum of (i) the Fair Market Value of all the shares of Common Stock outstanding on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange plus (ii) the Fair Market Value of the consideration received by the Corporation in respect of such issuance, sale or exchange of such right or warrant plus (iii) the Fair Market Value at the time of such issuance of the consideration that the Corporation would receive upon exercise in full of all such rights or warrants, and the denominator of which shall be the product of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange multiplied by (b) the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such day plus the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that could be acquired pursuant to such rights or warrants at the time of issuance, sale or exchange of such rights or warrants (assuming shares of Common Stock could be acquired pursuant to such rights or warrants at such time).
(d) In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time, while any of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, make an Extraordinary Distribution (as hereinafter defined) in respect of the Common Stock, whether by dividend, distribution, reclassification of shares or recapitalization of the Corporation (excluding a recapitalization or reclassification effected by a merger or consolidation to which Section 8 hereof applies) or effect a Pro Rata Repurchase (as hereinafter defined) of Common Stock, the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase shall, subject to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Section 9, be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Price by a fraction the numerator of which is the difference between (i) the product of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately preceding such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase multiplied by (y) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the record date with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution, or on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender offer or exchange offer that is a Pro Rata Repurchase, or on the date of purchase with respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender offer or exchange offer, as the case may be, minus (ii) the Fair Market Value of the Extraordinary Distribution or the aggregate purchase price of the Pro Rata Repurchase, as the case may be, and the denominator of which shall be the product of (a) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately preceding such Extraordinary Dividend or Pro Rata Repurchase minus, in the case of a Pro Rata Repurchase, the number of shares of Common Stock repurchased by the Corporation multiplied by (b) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the record date with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution or on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender offer or exchange offer that is a Pro Rata Repurchase or on the date of purchase with respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender offer or exchange offer, as the case may be. The Corporation shall send each holder of Series B Preferred Stock (i) notice of its intent to make any dividend or distribution and (ii) notice of any offer by the Corporation to make a Pro Rata Repurchase, in each case at the same time as, or as soon as practicable after, such offer is first communicated (including by announcement of a record date in accordance with the rules of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading) to holders of Common Stock. Such notice shall indicate the intended record date and the amount and nature of such dividend or distribution, or the number of shares subject to such offer for a Pro Rata Repurchase and the purchase price payable by the Corporation pursuant to such offer, as well as the Conversion Price and the number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of Series B Preferred Stock may be converted at such time.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section 9, the Corporation shall not be required to make any adjustment to the Conversion Price unless and until such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least two percent in the Conversion Price. Any lesser adjustment shall be carried forward and shall be made no later than the time of, and together with, the next subsequent adjustment that, together with any adjustment or adjustments so carried forward, shall amount to an increase or decrease of at least one percent in the Conversion Price. All adjustments shall be made to the nearest one hundredth of a share and the nearest cent.
(f)  If the Corporation shall pay any dividend or make any distribution on the Common Stock or issue any Common Stock, other capital stock or other security of the Corporation or any rights or warrants to purchase or acquire any such security, which transaction does not result in an adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, the Board of Directors of the Corporation may consider, but shall be under no legal obligation to consider, whether such action is of such a nature that an adjustment to the Conversion Price should equitably be made in respect of such transaction. If in such case the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines that an adjustment to the Conversion Price should be made, the Board of Directors shall take such action as it deems appropriate. The determination of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as to whether an adjustment to the Conversion Price should be made pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (f) of Section 9, and, if so, as to what adjustment should be made and when, shall be final and binding on the Corporation and all stockholders of the Corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to make such additional adjustments in the Conversion Price, in addition to any made pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 9, as shall be necessary in order that any dividend or distribution in shares of capital stock of the Corporation, any subdivision, reclassification or combination of shares of stock of the Corporation or any recapitalization of the Corporation or other event shall not be taxable to holders of Common Stock.
(g) For purposes of this paragraph 4B, the following definitions shall apply:
"Business Day" shall mean each day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or required to be closed.
"Extraordinary Distribution" shall mean any dividend or other distribution to the holders of Common Stock (effected while any of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding) (i) of cash, where the aggregate amount of such cash dividend or distribution, together with the amount of all cash dividends and distributions made during the preceding period of 12 months, when combined with the aggregate amount of all Pro Rata Repurchases (for this purpose, including only that portion of the aggregate purchase price of such pro Rata Repurchase that is in excess of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock repurchased as determined on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender offer or exchange offer that is a Pro Rata Purchase, or the date of purchase with respect to any other Pro Rata Repurchase that is not a tender offer or exchange offer made during such period), exceeds 12 / 2 percent of the aggregate Fair Market Value of all shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to receive such Extraordinary Distribution and (ii) of any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (other than shares of Common Stock), other securities of the Corporation (other than securities of the type referred to in paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section 9), evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation or any other person or any other property (including shares of any subsidiary of the Corporation), or any combination thereof. The Fair Market Value of an Extraordinary Distribution for purposes of paragraph (d) of this Section 9 shall be equal to the sum of the Fair Market Value of such Extraordinary Distribution plus the amount of any cash dividends that are not Extraordinary Distributions made during such twelve month period and not previously included in the calculation of any adjustment pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 9.
1
"Fair Market Value" shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Corporation or any other issuer that are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices (as hereinafter defined) of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period (as hereinafter defined). "Current Market Price" of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Corporation or any other issuer for a given day shall mean the last reported sales price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or, if such security is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which such security is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the NASDAQ National Market System or, if such security is not quoted on such National Market System, the
average of the closing bid and asked price on such day in the over-the counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for such security on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in such security selected for such purpose by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof on each trading day during the Adjustment Period. "Adjustment Period" shall mean the period of five consecutive trading days, selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, during the 20 days preceding, and including, the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. The "Fair Market Value" of any security that is not publicly traded or any other property shall mean the fair value thereof as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, or, if no such investment banking or appraisal firm is, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors or such committee, available to make such determination, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or such committee.
"Non-dilutive Amount" in respect of an issuance, sale or exchange by the Corporation of any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock (including any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) shall mean the difference between (i) the product of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day preceding the first public announcement (whether by the Corporation or otherwise) of such issuance, sale or exchange multiplied by the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that could be acquired on such date upon the exercise in full of such rights and warrants (including upon the conversion or exchange of all such convertible or exchangeable securities), whether or not exercisable (or convertible or exchangeable) at such date, minus (ii) the aggregate amount payable to the Corporation pursuant to such right or warrant to purchase or acquire such maximum number of shares of Common Stock; that in no event shall the Non-dilutive Amount be less than zero. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, in the case of a security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock, the amount payable pursuant to a right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock shall be the Fair Market Value of such security on the date of the issuance, sale or exchange of such security by the Corporation.
provided, however,
"Pro Rata Repurchase" shall mean any purchase of shares of Common Stock by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof, whether for cash, shares of capital stock of the Corporation, other securities of the Corporation, evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation or any other person or any other property (including shares of a subsidiary of the Corporation), or any combination thereof, effected while any of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding pursuant to any tender offer or exchange offer subject to Section 13(e) of the Exchange Act or any successor provision of law, or pursuant to any other offer available to substantially all holders of Common Stock; that no purchase of shares by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof made in open market transactions shall be deemed a Pro Rata Repurchase. For purposes of this paragraph 9(g), shares shall be deemed to have been purchased by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof "in open market transactions" if they have been purchased substantially in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Exchange Act, on the date shares of the Series B Preferred Stock are initially issued by the Corporation or on such other terms and conditions as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof shall have determined are reasonably designed to prevent such purchases from having a material effect on the trading market for Common Stock.
provided, however,
(h) Whenever an adjustment to the Conversion Price and the related voting rights of the Series B Preferred Stock is required pursuant to this paragraph 4B, the Corporation shall forthwith place on file with the transfer agent for the Common Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock, if there be one, and with the Secretary of the Corporation, a statement signed by two officers of the Corporation, stating the adjusted Conversion Price determined as provided herein and the resulting conversion ratio, and the voting rights (as appropriately adjusted) of the Series B Preferred Stock. Such statement shall set forth in reasonable detail such facts as shall be necessary to show the reason and the manner of computing such adjustment, including any determination of Fair Market Value involved in such computation. Promptly after each adjustment to the Conversion Price and the related voting rights of the Series B Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall mail a notice thereof and of the then-prevailing Conversion Price (and the resulting conversion ratio) to each holder of shares of the Series B Preferred Stock.
(10)  
  Ranking; Attributable Capital and Adequacy of Surplus; Retirement of Shares.
(a) The Series B Preferred Stock shall rank senior to the Common Stock and to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, of the Corporation as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution and winding-up of the Corporation. The ranking of any subsequent series of Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, issued by the Corporation as compared to the Series B Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation shall be as specified in the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation and, if appropriate, shall also be subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3 hereof.
(b) The capital of the Corporation allocable to the Series B Preferred Stock for purposes of the New York Business Corporation Law (the "BCL") shall be $100 per share. In addition to any vote of stockholders required by law, the vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be required to increase the par value of the Common Stock or otherwise increase the capital of the Corporation allocable to the Common Stock for the purpose of the BCL if, as a result thereof, the surplus of the Corporation available for the declaration and payment of dividends for purposes of the BCL would be less than the amount of Preferred Dividends that would accrue on the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock during the following three years.
(c) Any shares of Series B Preferred Stock acquired by the Corporation by reason of the conversion or redemption of such shares as provided by this paragraph 4B, or otherwise acquired, shall be retired as shares of Series B Preferred Stock and restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, of the Corporation, undesignated as to series, and may thereafter be reissued as part of a new series of such Preferred Stock as permitted by law.
(11)  
  Miscellaneous.
(a) All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three business days after mailing thereof if sent by registered or certified mail (unless first-class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this paragraph 4B) with postage prepaid, addressed: (i) if to the Corporation, to its office at Corning, New York 14831 (Attention: the Secretary) or to the transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock, or other agent of the Corporation designated as permitted by this paragraph 4B or (ii) if to any holder of the Series B Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be, to such holder at the address of such holder as listed in the stock record books of the Corporation (which may include the records of any transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be) or (iii) to such other address as the Corporation or any such holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
(b) The term "Common Stock" as used in this paragraph 4B means the Corporation's Common Stock, par value $1 per share, as the same exists at the date of filing of a Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation relating to the Series B Preferred Stock or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such Common Stock consisting solely of changes in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value. In the event that, at any time as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section 9 hereof, the holder of any share of the Series B Preferred Stock, upon thereafter surrendering such share for conversion, shall become entitled to receive any shares of other securities of the Corporation other than shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Price in respect of such other shares or securities so receivable upon conversion of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall thereafter be adjusted, and shall be subject to further adjustment from time to time, in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to Common Stock contained in Section 9 hereof, and the provisions of Sections 1 through 8 and 10 and 11 hereof with respect to the Common Stock shall apply on like or similar terms to any such other shares or securities.
(c) The Corporation shall pay any and all stock transfer and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Series B Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Series B Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Series B Preferred Stock or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Series B Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any person with respect to any such shares or securities other than a payment to the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
(d) In the event that a holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such shares should be registered or to whom payment upon redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock should be made or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares, or such payment, should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the holder of such Series B Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares, or such payment, to the address of such holder shown on the records of the Corporation.
(e) Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation, all payments in the form of dividends, distributions on voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up or otherwise made upon the shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any other stock ranking on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to such dividend or distribution shall be made pro rata, so that amounts paid per share on the Series B Preferred Stock and such other stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that the required dividends, distributions or payments, as the case may be, then payable per share on the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and such other stock bear to each other.
(f)  The Corporation may appoint, and from time to time discharge and change, a transfer agent for the Series B Preferred Stock. Upon any such appointment or discharge of a transfer agent, the Corporation shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each holder of record of Series B Preferred Stock.
5. (a) The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by a Board of Directors consisting of not less than nine nor more than twenty-four persons. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. As used in this Certificate of Incorporation, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total authorized number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
At the 1985 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the 1986 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the term of office of the second class to expire at the 1987 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and the terms of office of the third class to expire at the 1988 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Commencing with the 1986 Annual Meeting of the Stockholders, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms have thereupon expired shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding Annual Meeting of Stockholders after their election. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain or attain, if possible, the equality of the number of directors in each class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. If such equality is not possible, the increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes in such a way that the difference in the number of directors in any two classes shall not exceed one.
(b) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, vacancies in any class of directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such class, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the entire Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until his successor is elected and qualified.
(c) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by this paragraph 5 unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
(d) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Certificate of Incorporation and subject to the other provisions of this paragraph 5, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the Corporation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the Corporation, and shall determine the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board actions.
(f)  The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of this paragraph 5 including this paragraph (f); provided, however, that this paragraph (f) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal, or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
6. (1)
Certain Definitions.
For the purposes of this paragraph 6:
(a) "Business Combination" shall mean:
(i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary with (A) an Interested Stockholder or (B) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder; or
(ii) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; or
(iii) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; or
(iv) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder; or
(v) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any Subsidiary or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Stockholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the percentage of the outstanding shares of (A) any class of equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or (B) any class of securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary convertible into equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, represented by securities of such class which are directly or indirectly owned by an Interested Stockholder and all of its Affiliates and Associates; or
(vi) any agreement, contract or other arrangement providing for any one or more of the actions specified in clauses (i) through (v) of this Section 1(a).
(b) "Affiliate" or "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as in effect on January 1, 1985.
(c) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on January 1, 1985.
(d) "Continuing Director" shall mean (i) any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation who (a) is neither the Interested Stockholder involved in the Business Combination as to which a vote of Continuing Directors is provided hereunder, nor an Affiliate, Associate, employee, agent or nominee of such Interested Stockholder, or the relative of any of the foregoing, and (b) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation prior to the time that such Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, (ii) any successor of a Continuing Director described in clause (i) who is recommended or elected to succeed a Continuing Director by the affirmative vote of a majority of Continuing Directors then on the Board of Directors of the Corporation, and (iii) any person who is elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the 1985 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and any successor thereto who is recommended or elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(e) "Fair Market Value" shall mean: (i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for the New York Stock ExchangeListed Stocks, or, if such stock is not reported on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., Automated Quotations System or any similar inter-dealer quotation system then in use, or if no such quotation is available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors in good faith; and (ii) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by a majority of the continuing Directors in good faith.
(f)  "Interested Stockholder" shall mean any Person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
(i) is, or was at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation; or
(ii) is an assignee of, or has otherwise succeeded to, any shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation of which an Interested Stockholder was the Beneficial Owner at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction, or series of transactions, not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
For the purpose of determining whether a Person is an Interested Stockholder, the outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation shall include unissued shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation of which the Interested Stockholder is the Beneficial Owner but shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, to any Person who is not the Interested Stockholder.
(g) A "Person" shall mean any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section 14(d) (2) of the Exchange Act.
(h) "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation of which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, (i) a majority of the outstanding shares of equity securities of such corporation, or (ii) shares having a majority of the voting power represented by all of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of such corporation. For the purpose of determining whether a corporation is a Subsidiary, the outstanding Voting Stock and shares of equity securities thereof shall include unissued shares of which the Corporation is the Beneficial Owner but, except for the purposes of Section 1(f), shall not include any other shares which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, to any Person who is not the Corporation.
(i)  "Voting Stock" shall mean outstanding shares of capital stock of the relevant corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
(2)  
  Higher Vote for Business Combinations.
In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or by this Certificate of Incorporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 3 of this paragraph 6, any Business Combination shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation, voting together as a single class, it being understood that, for purposes of this paragraph 6, each share of the Voting Stock of the Corporation shall have the number of votes granted to it pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Certificate of Incorporation. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
(3)  
  When Higher Vote is Not Required.
The provisions of Section 2 of this paragraph 6 shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote, if any, of the stockholders as is required by law and any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, if the conditions specified in either of the following paragraphs (a) and (b) are met:
(a) Approval by Continuing Directors. The Business Combination shall have been approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, even if the Continuing Directors do not constitute a quorum of the entire Board of Directors.
(b) Form of Consideration, Price and Procedure Requirements. All of the following conditions shall have been met:
(i) With respect to each share of each class of Voting Stock of the Corporation (including Common Stock), the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive on or before the date of the consummation of the Business Combination (the "Consummation Date"), consideration, in the form specified in Section 3 (b) (ii) hereof, with an aggregate Fair Market Value as of the Consummation Date at least equal to the highest of the following:
(a) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder to which the Business Combination relates, or by any Affiliate or Associate of such Interested Stockholder, for any shares of such class of Voting Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposal of the Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or (2) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher;
(b) the Fair Market Value per share of such class of Voting Stock of the Corporation on the Announcement Date; and
(c) the highest preferential amount per share, if any, to which the holders of shares of such class of Voting Stock of the Corporation are entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation.
(ii) The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation (including Common Stock) as described in Section 3(b)(i) hereof shall be in cash or if the consideration previously paid by or on behalf of the Interested Stockholder in connection with its acquisition of beneficial ownership of shares of such class of Voting Stock consisted in whole or in part of consideration other than cash, then in the same form as such consideration. If such payment for shares of any class of Voting Stock of the Corporation has been made with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration for such class of Voting Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the beneficial ownership of the largest number of shares of such class of Voting Stock previously acquired by the Interested Stockholder.
(iii) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder and prior to the Consummation Date of such Business Combination: (a) except as approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) on the outstanding preferred stock of the Corporation, if any; (b) there shall have been (1) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock of the Corporation (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common Stock) except as approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, and (2) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split), recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, unless the failure so to increase such annual rate is approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors; and (c) such Interested Stockholder shall not have become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation except as part of the transaction which results in such an Interested Stockholder becoming an Interested Stockholder.
(iv) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder, such Interested Stockholder shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder of the Corporation), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation.
(v) A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the General Rules and Regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to the stockholders of the Corporation at least 45 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions thereof).
(4)  
  Powers of Continuing Directors.
A majority of the Continuing Directors shall have the power and duty to determine, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this paragraph 6, including, without limitation, (A) whether a person is an Interested Stockholder, (B) the number of shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by any person, (C) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (D) whether the requirements of paragraph B of Section 3 have been met with respect to any Business Combination, and (E) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; and the good faith determination of a majority of the Continuing Directors on such matters shall be conclusive and binding for all the purposes of this paragraph 6.
(5)  
  No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations.
(a) Nothing contained in this paragraph 6 shall be construed to relieve the members of the Board of Directors or an Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
(b) The fact that any Business Combination complies with the provisions of Section 3 of this paragraph 6 shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, to approve such Business Combination or recommend its adoption or approval to the stockholders of the Corporation, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such Business Combination.
(6)  
  Amendment or Repeal.
The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of this paragraph 6; provided, however, that this Section 6 shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors and a majority of the Continuing Directors.
7. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for damages for any breach of duty as a director, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Business Corporation Law as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any repeal or modification of this paragraph 7 by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not affect adversely any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
8. The office of the Corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York. The Secretary of State of the State of New York is designated as the agent of the Corporation upon whom process in any action or proceeding against it may be served, and the address within the State to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of process in any action or proceeding against the Corporation which may be served upon him is One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, New York 14831, Attention of the Secretary.
FOURTH: This restatement of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting thereof duly called and held on December 6, 2000 at which a quorum was present and acting throughout.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have signed this Certificate this 17th day of January, 2001.
ROGER G. ACKERMAN Chairman
/s/ ROGER G. ACKERMAN
A. JOHN PECK, JR.  Secretary
/s/ A. JOHN PECK, JR. 
STATE OF NEW YORK ss: COUNTY OF STEUBEN
    ROGER G. ACKERMAN and A. JOHN PECK, JR., being severally duly sworn, say, and each for himself says, that the said Roger G. Ackerman is the Chairman and the said A. John Peck, Jr. is the Secretary of Corning Incorporated, which is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York and is the corporation described in the foregoing Certificate; that they have read the said Certificate and know the contents thereof and that the same is true to their own knowledge.
ROGER G. ACKERMAN Chairman
/s/ ROGER G. ACKERMAN
A. JOHN PECK, JR.  Secretary
/s/ A. JOHN PECK, JR. 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 17th day of January, 2001
MARIA A. FELDMAN (PALMER)
/s/ MARIA A. FELDMAN (PALMER)
Notary Public, State of New York Qualified in Chemung County No. 01FE4999311 My Commission Expires May 11, 2002

Exhibit 3(i)3
WE, WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being, respectively, the President and Chief Operating Officer and Secretary of Corning Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated. The Corporation was formed under the name Corning Glass Works.
SECOND: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (being the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation Forming the Corporation) was filed in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of New York on December 24, 1936.
THIRD: The said Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and restated, is hereby amended pursuant to Sections 502(c), 502(d) and 805 of the Business Corporation Law by the addition of the following provisions, stating the number, designation, relative rights, preferences and limitations of a series of Series Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, as fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation before the issuance of such shares, such provisions so added to be designated as paragraph 4C of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation and to read as follows:
4C. 7.00% Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock
(1) 
Designation and Amount.
The shares of this series of Preferred Stock shall be designated as "7.00% Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock" (the "Series C Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 5,750,000, with a par value of $100 per share.
(2) Ranking.
The Series C Preferred Stock shall rank, as to payment of dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, (a) senior to the Common Stock, (b) senior to the Series A Preferred Stock and (c) junior to the Series B Preferred Stock.
(3) Dividends.
(a) Dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock will be payable quarterly on each Dividend Payment Date, at the annual rate of $7.00 per share. The initial dividend on the Series C Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Period, commencing on the date of first issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock (assuming a date of first issuance of August 6, 2002), to but excluding November 16, 2002, will be $1.925 per share, and will be payable on November 16, 2002. Each subsequent quarterly dividend on the Series C Preferred Stock will be $1.750 per share. Dividends payable on a Dividend Payment Date will be payable to Record Holders for the applicable Dividend Payment Date.
(b) The amount of dividends payable on each share of Series C Preferred Stock for each full quarterly period will be computed by dividing the annual dividend by four. The amount of dividends payable for any other period that is shorter or longer than a full quarterly dividend period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Accumulated but unpaid dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock shall cumulate from the Dividend Payment Date on which they become payable, but no interest shall accrue on accumulated but unpaid dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock.
(c) All dividends payable on the Series C Preferred Stock through the Mandatory Conversion Date will become immediately due and payable, if any of the following events occurs:
(i) the rating on the Corporation's long-term debt is reduced to "Ca" or below by Moody's or "CC" or below by Standard & Poor's;
(ii) the Corporation fails to comply with any of the provisions of this Certificate of Amendment or the Promissory Note; or
(iii) the Corporation or any of the Corporation's principal subsidiaries pursuant to or under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
(A) commences a voluntary case or proceeding;
(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding or the commencement of any case against it;
(C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property;
(D) files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or
(E) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by Custodian; or
(F) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(1) is for relief against the Corporation or any of the Corporation's principal subsidiaries in an involuntary case or proceeding, or adjudicates the Corporation or any of the Corporation's principal subsidiaries insolvent or bankrupt;
(2) appoints a Custodian of the Corporation or any of the Corporation's principal subsidiaries or for any substantial part of its property; or
(3) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Corporation or any of the Corporation's principal subsidiaries;
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
(4) Payment Restrictions.
(a) Unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock for all prior Dividend Periods have been paid, the Corporation may not:
(i) take any of the following actions with respect to any of its capital stock that ranks junior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends or distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, including any and all             shares of Common Stock and the Series A Preferred Stock issued in the future, if any:
(A) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution of assets on any of the Corporation's capital stock that ranks junior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, other than dividends or distributions in the form of the Corporation's capital stock that ranks junior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation; or
(B) redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any of the Corporation's capital stock that ranks junior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, except upon conversion or exchange for the Corporation's capital stock that ranks junior to the Corporation's Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
(ii) redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any of the Corporation's capital stock that ranks pari passu with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, except for conversion or exchange for the Corporation's capital stock that ranks junior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
(5) Voting Rights.
(a) Except as otherwise required by law or set forth herein, Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock are not entitled to any voting rights and their consent shall not be required for the taking of any corporate action.
(b) So long as any of the Series C Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Corporation will not, without the approval of the Holders of at least 66?% of the Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding, given in person or by proxy either at a regular meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose, at which the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock shall vote separately as a series, amend any of the provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and restated, so as to affect adversely the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock; provided that the amendment of the provisions of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation so as to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of any shares ranking junior or pari passu as to payment of dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation to the Series C Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to affect aversely the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock.
(c) So long as any of the Series C Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Corporation will not, without the approval of the holders of at least 80% of the Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding and all shares of any other series of the Corporation's Series Preferred Stock ranking pari passu as to dividends or distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation with the Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy either at a regular meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose:
(i) issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase, any stock of any class ranking senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends or distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation; or
(ii) reclassify any of the Corporation's authorized stock into any stock of any class, or any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase such stock, ranking senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends or distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation,
the Corporation may take any of the actions described in this Section 5(c) to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing a right to purchase, any stock ranking junior to or pari passu with the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends or distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation without the vote of any Holder of the Series C Preferred Stock.
provided that
(6) Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.
(a) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding will be entitled to receive, out of the net assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders (subject to the rights of the holders of any stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series C Preferred Stock in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and before any amount shall be paid or distributed with respect to holders of any stock of the Corporation then outstanding ranking junior to the Series C Preferred Stock in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation), a liquidating distribution in the amount of $100.00 per share, plus an amount equal to the sum of all accrued and unpaid dividends, whether or not earned, for the then-current Dividend Period and all prior Dividend Periods. After the payment to the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock of the full amounts provided in this Section 6(a), the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation's remaining assets.
(b) For the purpose of this Section 6, none of the following shall be deemed a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation:
(i) the sale of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property or business;
(ii) the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation; or
(iii) the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Corporation.
(c) If, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the amounts payable with respect to the Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding are not paid in full as provided in Section 6(a) hereof, no distribution shall be made on account of any stock ranking pari passu with the Series C Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets upon that liquidation, dissolution or winding up unless a pro rata distribution is made on the Series C Preferred Stock. The Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding and the holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking pari passu with the Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding shall share ratably in any distribution of assets upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The amount allocable to each series of stock ranking pari passu as to dividends or distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation then outstanding will be based on the proportion of their full respective liquidation preference to the aggregate liquidation preference of the outstanding shares of each such series. After the payment to the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock and all other series of stock ranking pari passu as to payment of dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation of the full amounts provided in this Section 6(c), the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock and the holders of all other series of stock ranking pari passu as to payment of dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation will have no right or claim to any of the Corporation's remaining assets.
(d) Written notice of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where, the amounts distributable to holders of Series C Preferred Stock in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than twenty calendar days prior to any payment date stated therein, to the Holders of Series C Preferred Stock, at the address shown on the books of the Corporation or the Transfer Agent; provided, however, that a failure to give notice as provided above or any defect therein shall not affect the Corporation's ability to consummate a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
(7) Automatic Conversion on the Mandatory Conversion Date.
(a) Each share of Series C Preferred Stock will automatically convert (unless previously converted at the option of the Holder in accordance with Section 8 hereof or pursuant to an exercise of a Merger Early Settlement right pursuant to Section 9 hereof) on the Mandatory Conversion Date, into a number of newly issued shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate.
(b) The "Conversion Rate" shall be as follows:
(i) if the "Applicable Market Value" of the Common Stock is equal to or greater than $1.968 (the "Threshold Appreciation Price"), the Conversion Rate shall be equal to 50.813 shares of Common Stock per share of Series C Preferred Stock;
(ii) if the Applicable Market Value of the Common Stock is less than the Threshold Appreciation Price but greater than $1.60 (the "Initial Price"), the Conversion Rate shall be equal to $100.00 divided by the Applicable Market Value of the Common Stock; and
(iii) If the Applicable Market Value of the Common Stock is less than or equal to the Initial Price, the Conversion Rate shall be equal to 62.500 shares of Common Stock per share of Series C Preferred Stock, in each case, subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 13 hereof.
(8) Conversion at the Option of the Holder.
(a) Shares of the Series C Preferred Stock are convertible, in whole or in part, at any time prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date, into shares of Common Stock at the rate of 50.813 shares of Common Stock per share of Series C Preferred Stock, subject to adjustments as set forth under Section 13 hereof. In addition, the Corporation shall make a payment to Holders who so convert their shares of Series C Preferred Stock, in cash, in an amount equal to the Market Value at that time of the portfolio of U.S. Treasury Securities that, upon maturity thereof, would be sufficient to pay that portion of amounts then due and unpaid under the Promissory Note that corresponds to the Corporation's obligation to pay accrued and unpaid dividends on such Holder's Series C Preferred Stock being converted that otherwise would be payable, if such shares of Series C Preferred Stock were not converted early in accordance with this Section 8, from and after such conversion is effective in accordance with Section 10(e) hereof through the Mandatory Conversion Date.
(b) Record Holders shall be entitled to receive the dividend payable on their converted shares of Series C Preferred Stock on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion pursuant to this Section 8 of such shares after the close of business on a Record Date but before the opening of business on the corresponding Dividend Payment Date. In such event, any cash amount due and payable by the Corporation to the Holder pursuant to Section 8(a) will be decreased by an amount equal to the amount of dividend to be paid on such Dividend Payment Date.
(9) Early Conversion Upon Cash Merger.
(a) In the event of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation of the type described in Section 13(f) in which the Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation is exchanged for consideration consisting of at least 30% cash or cash equivalents (any such event, a "Cash Merger"), then the Corporation (or the successor to the Corporation, as the case may be) shall be required to offer to the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock the right to convert their shares of Series C Preferred Stock prior to the Mandatory Conversion Date (such right of the Holders to convert their shares pursuant to this Section 9(a) being the "Merger Early Settlement") as provided herein.
(b) On or before the fifth Business Day after the consummation of a Cash Merger, the Corporation or, at the request and expense of the Corporation, the Transfer Agent, shall give all Holders notice of the occurrence of the Cash Merger and of the Merger Early Settlement right arising as a result thereof. The Corporation shall also deliver a copy of such notice to the Transfer Agent. Each such notice shall contain:
(i) the date, which shall be not less than 20 nor more than 30 calendar days after the date of such notice, on which the Merger Early Settlement will be effected (such date being the "Merger Early Settlement Date");
(ii) the date, which shall be on or one Business Day prior to the Merger Early Settlement Date, by which the Merger Early Settlement right must be exercised;
(iii) the Conversion Rate in effect on the Trading Day immediately preceding such Cash Merger (calculated as if the Trading Day immediately preceding such Cash Merger were the Mandatory Conversion Date) and the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable per share of Series C Preferred Stock by the Holder upon conversion of shares of Series C Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 9(d); and
(iv) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise the Merger Early Settlement right.
(c) To exercise a Merger Early Settlement right, a Holder shall deliver to the Transfer Agent at its Corporate Trust Office by 5:00 p.m., New York City time on or one Business Day prior to the date by which the Merger Settlement Right must be exercised as specified in the notice, the certificate(s) (if such shares are held in certificated form) evidencing the shares of Series C Preferred Stock with respect to which the Merger Early Settlement right is being exercised, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation, or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto, or in blank, with a written notice to the Corporation stating the Holder's intention to convert early in connection with the Cash Merger and providing the Corporation with payment instructions.
(d) If the Holder exercises its Merger Early Settlement right pursuant to the terms hereof, on the Merger Early Settlement Date, the Corporation shall deliver or cause to be delivered the net cash, securities and other property entitled to be received by such exercising Holder, determined by assuming the Holder had converted its shares of Series C Preferred Stock immediately before the Cash Merger at the Conversion Rate calculated in accordance with Section 9(b)(iii) hereof. In the event a Merger Early Settlement right is exercised by a Holder in accordance with the terms hereof, all references herein to Mandatory Conversion Date shall be deemed to refer to such Merger Early Settlement Date.
(e) If the Holder does not elect to exercise its Merger Early Settlement right pursuant to this Section 9, in lieu of shares of Common Stock, the Corporation shall deliver on the Mandatory Conversion Date, at the Conversion Rate in effect on that date, the net cash, securities and other property for which the Common Stock was exchangeable in connection with the Cash Merger.
(f) Upon a Merger Early Settlement, the Transfer Agent shall, in accordance with the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation as set forth above, deliver to the Holder such net cash, securities or other property issuable upon such Merger Early Settlement together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a share, as provided herein.
(g) In the event that a Merger Early Settlement is effected with respect to shares of Series C Preferred Stock representing less than all the shares of Series C Preferred Stock held by a Holder, upon such Merger Early Settlement the Corporation (or the successor to the Corporation, as the case may be) shall execute and the Transfer Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, authenticate, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares as to which Merger Early Settlement was not effected.
(10) Conversion Procedures.
(a) Any Holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock desiring to convert such shares into shares of Common Stock shall, if the Series C Preferred Stock is held in certificated form, surrender the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Series C Preferred Stock being converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto), at the principal executive office of the Corporation or at the Corporate Trust Office of the Transfer Agent, or at such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock by the Corporation or the Transfer Agent, accompanied by written notice of conversion, by 5:00 pm, New York City time, on any day that is a Business Day in The City of New York.
(b) Such written notice of conversion shall be duly executed by the Holder, accompanied by a Medallion Signature Guarantee (if required by the Transfer Agent), and specify:
(i) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be converted;
(ii) the name(s) in which such Holder desires the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion to be registered and whether such shares of Common Stock are to be issued in book-entry or certificated form (subject to compliance with applicable legal requirements if any of such certificates are to be issued in a name other than the name of the Holder);
(iii) if certificates are to be issued, the address to which such Holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion; and
(iv) any other transfer forms, tax forms or other relevant documentation required and specified by the Transfer Agent, if necessary, to effect the conversion.
(c) If specified by the Holder in the notice of conversion that shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock shall be issued to a person other than the Holder surrendering the shares of Series C Preferred Stock being converted, the Holder shall pay or cause to be paid any transfer or similar taxes payable in connection with the shares of Common Stock so issued.
(d) Upon receipt by the Transfer Agent of a completed and duly executed notice of conversion as set forth in Section 10(b) and upon surrender of a certificate representing share(s) of Series C Preferred Stock to be converted (if held in certificated form), the Corporation shall, within three Business Days or as soon as possible thereafter, issue and shall instruct the Transfer Agent to register the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled upon conversion in the name(s) specified by such Holder in the notice of conversion. If a Holder elects to hold its shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock in certificated form, the Corporation promptly send or cause to be sent, by hand delivery (with receipt to be acknowledged) or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holder thereof, at the address designated by such Holder in the written notice of conversion, a certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled upon conversion. In the event that there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of Series C Preferred Stock, only part of which are to be converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such Holder or such Holder's designee in the manner provided in the immediately preceding sentence a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock that shall not have been converted.
(e) The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of Series C Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms hereof shall be effective immediately prior to the close of business on the day of receipt by the Transfer Agent of the notice of conversion and other documents, if any, set forth in Section 10(b) hereof, compliance with Section 10(c), if applicable, and the surrender by such Holder or such Holder's designee of the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be converted (if held in certificated form), duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto). The person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock as of the close of business on the effective date of the conversion. No allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock of record as of any date prior to such effective date. Prior to such effective date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of any shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock) by virtue of holding shares of Series C Preferred Stock.
(f) Shares of Series C Preferred Stock duly converted in accordance with this Certificate of Amendment, or otherwise reacquired by the Corporation, will resume the status of authorized and unissued Series Preferred Stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance.
(g) In the event that a holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such shares should be registered or to whom payment upon redemption of shares of Series C Preferred Stock should be made or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares, or such payment, should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder of such Series C Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares, or such payment, to the address of such holder shown on the records of the Corporation.
(11) Reservation of Common Stock.
(a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series C Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion of shares of Series C Preferred Stock, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock reacquired and held in the treasury of the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common stock), so long as any such treasury shares are free and clear of all liens, charges, security interests or encumbrances.
(c) All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances.
(d) The Corporation shall prepare and shall use its best efforts to obtain and keep in force such governmental or regulatory permits or other authorizations as may be required by law, and shall comply with all applicable requirements as to registration or qualification of the Common Stock (and all requirements to list the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of Series C Preferred Stock that are at the time applicable), in order to enable the Corporation lawfully to issue and deliver to each holder of record of Series C Preferred Stock such number of shares of its Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding and convertible into shares of Common Stock.
(12) Fractional Shares.
(a) No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series C Preferred Stock.
(b) In lieu of any fractional share otherwise issuable in respect of any automatic conversion pursuant to Section 7 hereof or a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 8 hereof, the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of:
(i) in the case of an automatic conversion pursuant to Section 7 hereof, the Current Market Price; or
(ii) in the case of a conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 8 hereof, the Closing Price of the Common Stock determined as of the Trading Day immediately preceding the effective date of conversion.
(13) Anti-Dilution Adjustments to the Conversion Rate.
(a) The formula for determining the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 7(b) hereof, and the number of shares of Common Stock to be delivered upon any conversion of shares of Series C Preferred Stock pursuant to Sections 7, 8 or 9 hereof, shall be subject to the following adjustments. Each adjustment to the Conversion Rate will result in a corresponding adjustment to the number of shares of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock.
(i) In case the Corporation shall pay or make a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate, as in effect at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution, shall be increased by dividing such Conversion Rate by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination and the denominator shall be the sum of such number of Shares of Common Stock outstanding and the total number of shares of Common Stock constituting such dividend or other distribution, such increase to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination. For the purposes of this sub-section (i), the number of shares of Common Stock at the time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include any shares issuable in respect of any scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Corporation will not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Corporation.
Stock Dividends and Distributions.
(ii) . In case outstanding             shares of Common Stock shall be subdivided or split into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision or split becomes effective shall be proportionately increased, and, conversely, in case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall each be combined into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such combination becomes effective shall be proportionately reduced, such increase or reduction, as the case may be, to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision, split or combination becomes effective.
Subdivisions, Splits and Combinations of the Common Stock
(iii) . In case the Corporation shall issue rights or warrants to all holders of its Common Stock not being available on an equivalent basis to Holders of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock upon conversion (other than rights or warrants issued pursuant to a dividend reinvestment plan or share purchase plan or other similar plans), entitling such holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate in effect at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination shall be increased by multiplying such Conversion Rate by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase and the denominator of which shall be the number of             shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination plus the number of shares of Common Stock which the aggregate of the offering price of the total number of shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at such Current Market Price, such increase to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination. For the purposes of this sub-section (iii), the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Corporation but shall include any shares issuable in respect of any scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Corporation shall not issue any such rights or warrants in respect of shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Corporation.
Issuance of Stock Purchase Rights
(iv)
Debt or Asset Distribution.
(A) In case the Corporation shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock evidences of its indebtedness, shares of capital stock, securities, cash or other assets (excluding any dividend or distribution referred to in Section 13(a)(i) or Section 13(a)(ii) hereof, any rights or warrants referred to in Section 13(a)(iii) hereof, any dividend or distribution paid exclusively in cash and any dividend, shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit in the case of a Spin-Off referred to in Section 13(a)(iv)(B) below), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that it shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the date fixed for such determination and the denominator of which shall be such Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock less the then fair market value (as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, or, if no such investment banking or appraisal firm is, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, available to make such determination within a reasonable time period so as to permit the Corporation to comply with its obligation to issue and deliver shares of Common Stock upon conversion of any Series C Preferred Stock hereunder, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors) of the portion of the assets or evidences of indebtedness so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock, such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution. In any case in which this sub-section (iv)(A) is applicable, sub-section (iv)(B) of this Section 13(a) shall not be applicable.
(B) In the case of a Spin-Off, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the close of business on the record date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive that distribution will be increased by multiplying the Conversion Rate by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock plus the Fair Market Value of the portion of those             shares of Capital Stock or similar equity interests so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock and the denominator of which is the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock. Any adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this sub-section (iv)(B) of this Section 13(a) will occur on the earlier of (A) the 10th Trading Day from, but excluding, the effective date of the Spin-Off and (B) the date of the securities being offered in the Initial Public Offering of the Spin-Off, if that Initial Public Offering is effected simultaneously with the Spin-Off.
(v) . In case the Corporation shall:
Cash Distributions
(A) by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock cash (excluding any cash that is distributed in a Reorganization Event to which Section 13(f) hereof applies or as part of a distribution referred to in sub-section (iv) of this Section 13(a)) in an aggregate amount that, combined together with:
(B) the aggregate amount of any other distributions to all holders of its Common Stock made exclusively in cash within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of such distribution and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this Section 13(a)(v) or Section 13(a)(vi) has been made; and
(C) the aggregate of any cash plus the fair market value, as of the date of the expiration of the tender or exchange offer referred to below (as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property elected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, or, if no such investment banking or appraisal firm is, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, available to make such determination within a reasonable time period so as to permit the Corporation to comply with its obligation to issue and deliver shares of Common Stock upon conversion of any Series C Preferred Stock hereunder, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors), of the consideration payable in respect of any tender or exchange offer by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries for all or any portion of the Common Stock concluded within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of the distribution described in Section 13(a)(v)(A) and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this Section 13(a)(v) or Section 13(a)(vi) below has been made,
exceeds 10% of the product of the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the date for the determination of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled to receive such distribution multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such date on a fully diluted basis, then, and in each such case, immediately after the close of business on such date for determination, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for determination of the stockholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction, (1) the numerator of which shall be equal to the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the date fixed for such date for determination and (2) the denominator of which shall be equal to the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the date fixed for such determination less an amount equal to the quotient of (x) the combined amount distributed or payable in the transactions described in the above clauses (A), (B) and (C) of this Section 13(a)(v) divided by (y) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such date for determination.
(vi) Tender Offers. In case (1) a tender or exchange offer made by the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation for all or any portion of the Common Stock shall expire and such tender or exchange offer (as amended upon the expiration thereof) shall require the payment to stockholders (based on the acceptance (up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer) of Purchased Shares (as defined below in this Section)) of an aggregate consideration having a fair market value (as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, or, if no such investment banking or appraisal firm is, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, available to make such determination within a reasonable time period so as to permit the Corporation to comply with its obligation to issue and deliver shares of Common Stock upon conversion of any Series C Preferred Stock hereunder, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors) that combined together with (2) the aggregate of the cash plus the fair market value (as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, or, if no such investment banking or appraisal firm is, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, available to make such determination within a reasonable time period so as to permit the Corporation to comply with its obligation to issue and deliver shares of Common Stock upon conversion of any Series C Preferred Stock hereunder, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a resolution of the Board of Directors), as of the expiration of such tender or exchange offer, of consideration payable in respect of any other tender or exchange offer by the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation for all or any portion of the Common Stock expiring within the 12 months preceding the expiration of such tender or exchange offer and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to Section 13(a)(v) hereof or this Section 13(a)(vi) has been made and (3) the aggregate amount of any distributions to all holders of the Corporation's Common Stock made exclusively in cash within the 12 months preceding the expiration of such tender or exchange offer and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to Section 13(a)(v) hereof or this Section 13(a)(vi) has been made, exceeds 10% of the product of the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock as of the last time (the "Expiration Time") tenders could have been made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended) multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered shares) on the Expiration Time, then, and in each such case, immediately prior to the opening of business on the day after the date of the Expiration Time, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the rate determined by dividing the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the close of business on the date of the Expiration Time by a fraction (A) the numerator of which shall be equal to (x) the product of (I) the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the date of the Expiration Time and (II) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered shares) on the Expiration Time less (y) the amount of cash plus the fair market value (determined as aforesaid) of the aggregate consideration payable to stockholders based on the transactions described in clauses (1), (2) and (3) of this Section 13(a)(vi) (assuming in the case of clause (1) the acceptance, up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender or exchange offer, of Purchased Shares), and (B) the denominator of which shall be equal to the product of (x) the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock as of the Expiration Time and (y) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered shares) as of the Expiration Time less the number of all shares validly tendered and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Time (the shares deemed so accepted, up to any such maximum, being referred to as the "Purchased Shares").
Tender Offers and Exchange Offers.
(b) . The reclassification of Common Stock into securities including securities other than Common Stock (other than any reclassification upon a Reorganization Event to which Section 13(f) applies) shall be deemed to involve (1) a distribution of such securities other than Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution" and the "date fixed for such determination" within the meaning of Section 13(a)(iv)), and (2) a subdivision, split or combination, as the case may be, of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such reclassification into the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately thereafter (and the effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the day upon which such subdivision or split becomes effective" or "the day upon which such combination becomes effective," as the case may be, and "the day upon which such subdivision, split or combination becomes effective" within the meaning of Section 13(a)(ii)).
Reclassification
(c) . The Corporation may make such increases the Conversion Rate, in addition to any other increases required by this Section 13, if the Board of Directors deems it advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of the Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of shares (or rights to acquire shares) or from any event treated as a dividend or distribution for income tax purposes or for any other reasons.
Adjustment for Tax Reasons
(d) All adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be calculated to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share (or, if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share) of Common Stock. No adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent of the Conversion Rate; provided, that any adjustments that by reason of this sub-section are not required to bemade shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. If an adjustment is made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 13(a)(i), 13(a)(ii), 13(a)(iii), 13(a)(iv), 13(a)(v) or 13(a)(vi), an adjustment shall also be made to the Threshold Appreciation Price and the Initial Price, solely to determine which of clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Conversion Rate will apply on the Conversion Date. Such adjustment shall be made by multiplying each of the Threshold Appreciation Price and the Initial Price by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Conversion Rate immediately after such adjustment pursuant to Section 13(a)(i), 13(a)(ii), 13(a)(iii), 13(a)(iv), 13(a)(v) or 13(a)(vi) and the denominator of which shall be the Conversion Rate immediately before such adjustment; provided that if such adjustment to the Conversion Rate is required to be made pursuant to the occurrence of any of the events contemplated by Section 13(a)(i), 13(a)(ii), 13(a)(iii), 13(a)(iv), 13(a)(v) or 13(a)(vi) during the period taken into consideration for determining the Applicable Market Value, appropriate and customary adjustments shall be made to the Conversion Rate.
(e) Whenever the Conversion Rate is to be adjusted in accordance with Section 13(a), the Corporation shall: (i) compute the Conversion Rate in accordance with Section 13(a) and prepare and transmit to the Transfer Agent an Officer's Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; (ii) as soon as practicable following the occurrence of an event that requires or permits an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 13(a) hereof (or if the Corporation is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as practicable after becoming so aware), provide a written notice to the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock of the occurrence of such event; and (iii) as soon as practicable following the determination of the revised Conversion Rate in accordance with Section 13(a) hereof, a statement setting forth in reasonable detail the method by which the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the revised Conversion Rate.
(f) In the event of:
(i) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Corporation is the continuing corporation and in which the Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger or consolidation is not exchanged for cash, securities or other property of the Corporation or another corporation); or
(ii) any sale, transfer, lease or conveyance to another person of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation; or
(iii) any statutory exchange of securities of the Corporation with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition) (any such event specified in this Section 13(f), a "Reorganization Event"),
each share of Series C Preferred Stock immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, after such Reorganization Event, be converted into a right to receive the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event (without any interest thereon and without any right to dividends or distribution thereon which have a record date that is prior to the conversion date) per share of Series C Preferred Stock by a holder of Common Stock that (1) is not a person with which the Corporation consolidated or into which the Corporation merged or which merged into the Corporation or to which such sale or transfer was made, as the case may be (any such person, a "Constituent Person"), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person to the extent such Reorganization Event provides for different treatment of Common Stock held by Affiliates of the Corporation and non-Affiliates, and (2) failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event (provided that if the kind or amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event is not the same for each share of Common Stock held immediately prior to such Reorganization Event by other than a Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof and in respect of which such rights of election shall not have been exercised ("Non-electing Share"), then, for the purpose of this Section 13(f) the kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable upon such Reorganization Event by each Non-electing Share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the Non-electing Shares). On the conversion date, the Conversion Rate then in effect (assuming that such conversion date were the Mandatory Conversion Date) will be applied to the value on the conversion date of such securities, cash or other property that a Holder would have received if it had held shares of Common Stock during a Reorganization Event.
In the event of such a Reorganization Event, the person formed by such consolidation, merger or exchange or the person which acquires the assets of the Corporation shall execute and deliver to the Transfer Agent an agreement providing that the Holder of each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall have the rights provided by this Section 13(f). Such agreement shall provide for adjustments that, for events subsequent to the effective date of such agreement, shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Section 13(f). The above provisions of this Section 13(f) shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events.
(14) Replacement Stock Certificates.
(a) If physical certificates are issued, and any of the Series C Preferred Stock certificates shall be mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, the Corporation shall, at the expense of the Holder, issue, in exchange and in substitution for and upon cancellation of the mutilated Series C Preferred Stock certificate, or in lieu of and substitution for the Series C Preferred Stock certificate lost, stolen or destroyed, a new Series C Preferred Stock certificate of like tenor and representing an equivalent amount of shares of Series C Preferred Stock, but only upon receipt of evidence of such loss, theft or destruction of such Series C Preferred Stock certificate and indemnity, if requested, satisfactory to the Corporation and the Transfer Agent.
(b) The Corporation is not required to issue any certificates representing the Series C Preferred Stock on or after the Mandatory Conversion Date. In lieu of the delivery of a replacement certificate following the Mandatory Conversion Date, the Transfer Agent, upon delivery of the evidence and indemnity described above, will deliver the shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the Series C Preferred Stock evidenced by the certificate.
(15) Miscellaneous.
(a) All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and, unless otherwise specified herein, all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three business days after the mailing thereof if sent by registered or certified mail (unless first-class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms of this Certificate of Amendment) with postage prepaid, addressed: (i) if to the Corporation, to its office at One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, New York 14831 (Attention: the Secretary) or to the Transfer Agent at its Corporate Trust Office, or other agent of the Corporation designated as permitted by this Certificate of Amendment, or (ii) if to any Holder of the Series C Preferred Stock or holder of shares of Common Stock, as the case may be, to such Holder at the address of such Holder as listed in the stock record books of the Corporation (which may include the records of any transfer agent for the Series C Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be), or (iii) to such other address as the Corporation or any such Holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given.
(b) The Corporation shall pay any and all stock transfer and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of Series C Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of Series C Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of Series C Preferred Stock or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of Series C Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any person or securities other than a payment to the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable.
(c) The Corporation may appoint, and from time to time discharge and appoint, a Transfer Agent for the Series C Preferred Stock. Upon any such discharge or appointment, the Corporation shall send notice thereof by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock.
(16) Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Certificate of Amendment shall have the following meanings:
"Affiliate" shall have the meaning given to that term in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor rule thereunder.
"Applicable Market Value" means the average of the Closing Prices per share of the Common Stock on each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Mandatory Conversion Date.
"Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
"Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or any other day on which banks in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
"Cash Merger" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(a) hereof.
"Closing Price" means, as of any date of determination, the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date. If the Common Stock is not then traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on any date of determination means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the Nasdaq stock market, or, if no closing price for the Common Stock is so reported, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization or, if that bid price is not available, the market value of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by us for this purpose.
"Common Stock" as used in this Certificate of Amendment means the Corporation's Common Stock, par value $0.50 per share, as the same exists at the date of filing of a Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation relating to the Series C Preferred Stock, or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such Common Stock consisting solely of changes in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value. However, subject to the provisions of Section 13(a)(vii), shares of Common Stock issuable on conversion of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall include only shares of the class designated as Common Stock of the Corporation at the date of the filing of this instrument with the State of New York or shares of any class or classes resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and which are not subject to redemption by the Corporation; provided that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so issuable shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all classes resulting from all such reclassifications.
"Conversion Rate" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer Agent at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be administered.
"Current Market Price" per share of Common Stock on any date means the average of the daily Closing Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days preceding the earlier of the day preceding the date in question and the day before the "ex date" with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "ex date," when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which the Common Stock trades without the right to receive the issuance or distribution. For the purposes of determining the adjustment to the Conversion Rate for the purposes of Section 13(a)(iv)(B) hereof in the case of an Initial Public Offering that is effected simultaneously with a Spin-Off, the "Current Market Price" per share of Common Stock means the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day on which the Initial Public Offering price of the securities being distributed in the Spin-Off is determined. For the purposes of determining the adjustment to the Conversion Rate for the purposes of Section 13(a)(iv)(B) hereof in the case of an Initial Public Offering that is not effected simultaneously with a Spin-Off, the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock means the average of the Closing Prices over the first ten Trading Days following the effective date of the Spin-Off.
"Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
"Dividend Payment Date" means the 16th calendar day of February, May, August and November of each year, or the following Business Day if the 16th is not a business day.
"Dividend Period" means the period ending on the day before a Dividend Payment Date and beginning on the preceding Dividend Payment Date or, if there is no preceding Dividend Payment Date, on the first date of issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock.
"Fair Market Value" means (a) in the case of any Spin-Off that is effected simultaneously with an Initial Public Offering of the securities being distributed in the Spin-Off, the Initial Public Offering price of those securities, and (b) in the case of any other Spin-Off, the average of the closing sale prices of those securities over the first 10 Trading Days following the effective date of such Spin-Off.
"Holder" means the person in whose name the shares of the Series C Preferred Stock is registered, which may be treated by the Corporation and the Transfer Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.
"Initial Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
"Initial Public Offering" means the first time securities of the same class or type as the securities being distributed in a Spin-Off are offered to the public for cash.
"Liquidation Preference" means, as to the Series C Preferred Stock, $100 per share.
"Mandatory Conversion Date" means August 16, 2005.
"Market Value" with respect to the portfolio of U.S. Treasury Securities that secures the Corporation's payment obligations under the Promissory Note will be as determined by Citibank, N.A., acting as collateral agent, pursuant to the Pledge, Assignment and Collateral Agency Agreement.
"Medallion Signature Guarantee" means a signature guarantee by an eligible institution such as a brokerage firm, commercial bank, trust company, national bank, credit union, etc., that is participating in an approved Medallion Program such as the Securities Transfer Association Inc. (STA) approved Medallion Program.
"Merger Early Settlement" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(a) hereof.
"Merger Early Settlement Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(b) hereof.
"Officer's Certificate" means a certificate of the Corporation, signed by any duly authorized Officer of the Corporation.
"Pledge, Assignment and Collateral Agency Agreement" means the agreement, to be dated as of the date of first issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, by and between the Corporation and Citibank, N.A., acting as collateral agent thereunder for the benefit of the Holders and beneficial owners from time to time of the Series C Preferred Stock.
"Promissory Note" means the note, to be dated as of the date of first issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock, in favor of Citibank, N.A., as collateral agent under the Pledge, Assignment and Collateral Agency Agreement, for the benefit of the Holders of the Series C Preferred Stock.
"Record Date" means the 1st calendar day of the month in which the applicable Dividend Payment Date falls.
"Record Holder" means the Holder of record of the Series C Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock books of the Corporation at the close of business on a Record Date.
"Series A Preferred Stock" means the series of Preferred Stock, par value $100, of the Corporation designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock."
"Series B Preferred Stock" means the series of Preferred Stock, par value $100, of the Corporation designated as "Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock."
"Spin-Off" means a dividend or other distribution of shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation.
"Threshold Appreciation Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b) hereof.
"Trading Day" means a day on which the Common Stock:
(a) is not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the close of business; and
(b) has traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock.
"Transfer Agent" means Computershare Investor Services, LLC, acting as transfer agent and registrar for the Series C Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns.
"U.S. Treasury Securities" means the U.S. treasury securities purchased by the Corporation and pledged to secure payments on the Promissory Note.
FOURTH: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by resolutions duly adopted by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of shareholders. This Certificate of Amendment was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, pursuant to authority granted to the Board of Directors under the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, and in accordance with Sections 502(c), 502(d) and 805 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, at a meeting duly called and held on July 19, 2002, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have signed this Certificate this 5 day of August, 2002.
th
WENDELL P. WEEKS President and Chief Operating Officer
/S/ WENDELL P. WEEKS
     
DENISE A. HAUSELT Secretary
/S/ DENISE A. HAUSELT
     
STATE OF NEW YORK) )
COUNTY OF STEUBEN)
WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being severally duly sworn, say, and each for himself says, that the said Wendell P. Weeks is the President and Chief Operating Officer and the said Denise A. Hauselt is the Secretary of Corning Incorporated, which is a corporation organized under the laws of State of New York and is the corporation described in the foregoing Certificate; that they have read the said Certificate and know the contents thereof and that the same is true to their own knowledge.
WENDELL P. WEEKS President and Chief Operating Officer
/S/ WENDELL P. WEEKS
     
DENISE A. HAUSELT Secretary
/S/ DENISE A. HAUSELT
     
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 5 day of August, 2002.
th
Sherry L. Smith
/S/ SHERRY L. SMITH
     
Notary Public, State of New York Steuben County, No. 5009667 Commission Expires March 15, 2003

Exhibit 3(ii)1
Section 1.1 . The principal office and place of business of the corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York.
Principal Office
Section 1.2 . The Board of Directors may establish and discontinue, from time to time, other offices and places of business as it deems advisable and proper for the conduct of the company's business.
Other Offices
Section 2.1 . All meetings of shareholders of the corporation may be held at such place, within or without the State of New York, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.2 . The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and consideration of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on the last Thursday in April of each year, or on such other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of shareholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such annual meeting of shareholders.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.3 . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon order of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or a majority of the directors.
Special Meetings
Section 2.4 . Notice of each annual or special meeting of the shareholders shall be served either personally or by mail or electronically upon each shareholder entitled to vote thereat. If served by mail, the notice shall be sent postpaid addressed to the shareholder at such shareholder's address as it appears on the stock record of the corporation. If served electronically, the notice shall be sent to the e-mail or electronic address as supplied by the shareholder to the Secretary. Service of such notice shall be made not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days before the meeting date.
Notice of Meetings
Section 2.5 . Notice of meeting need not be given to any shareholder who submits a waiver of notice, in person or by proxy, either before or after the meeting. Waiver of notice may be written or electronic. The attendance of any shareholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by such shareholder.
Waiver of Notice
Section 2.6 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in the Chairman's absence and in the order named, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President present at the meeting shall call to order and preside at all meetings of shareholders, and the Secretary of the corporation, or in the Secretary's absence, the senior of the Assistant Secretaries (determined by the order of their election) present at the meeting shall act as secretary.
Chairman and Secretary of Meeting
Section 2.7 . Unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, every shareholder of record shall be entitled at every meeting of the corporation to one vote for every share of stock standing in such shareholder's name on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors may prescribe a period, not exceeding sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of the shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of a shareholder may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting, during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made; or in lieu of prohibiting the transfer of stock may fix a time not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of shareholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting as the time as of which shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such a meeting or whose consent or dissent is required or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be determined, and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time and no others shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or to express their consent or dissent as the case may be.
Shareholders Entitled to Vote
Section 2.8 . Holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall constitute a quorum at all meetings, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or by these By-Laws. If, however, such majority, represented either in person or by proxy, is not present at any meeting, the shareholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without other notice than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite amount of voting stock shall be present; , , that any shareholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the Chairman of the meeting. When the requisite amount of voting stock is present at an adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Quorum and Adjournment
provided
however
Section 2.9 . At each meeting of shareholders, every shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting shall have the right to vote in person or by proxy duly appointed by an appropriate instrument, such as a writing, a telegram, a cablegram or other means of electronic transmission, in each case subscribed by or on behalf of such shareholder, and dated not more than eleven months prior to the meeting, unless such instrument provides for a longer period. The vote for directors shall be by ballot. In a vote by ballot each ballot shall state the number of shares voted and the name of the shareholder or proxy voting. Except as otherwise provided by law, or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election and any other corporate action to be taken by a vote of the shareholders shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such matter at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.
Vote of Shareholders
Section 3.1 .
Election and Term
(a) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding: (i) each director elected at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders; (ii) each director elected at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders; (iii) each director elected at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders; and (iv) at the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders and each annual meeting of shareholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such director is elected and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
(b) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or a special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by Sections 3.1(a), 3.5 and 3.6 of this Article III unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
Section 3.2 .
Nominations and Shareholder Business
(a) .
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (i) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by any shareholder of the corporation who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 3.2, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 3.2, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (A) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (B) the class and number of             shares of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner and any other direct or indirect pecuniary or economic interest in any             shares of the corporation of such shareholder and such beneficial owner, including, without limitation, any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or profit sharing arrangement.
provided
however
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 3.2 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 3.2 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new position created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
(b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 3.2, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. Nominations by shareholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of shareholders if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 3.2 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.
Special Meetings of Shareholders
(c) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. The Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 3.2, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of this Section 3.2, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by Dow Jones Newswires, The Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.2, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 3.2. Nothing in this Section 3.2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any Series Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specific circumstances.
Section 3.3 . Directors need not be shareholders. Acceptance of the office may be expressed orally or in writing, except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws.
Qualification
Section 3.4 . The number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the corporation shall be not less than nine nor more than twenty-four, the exact number within such minimum and maximum limitations to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. As used in these By-Laws, the terms "entire Board of Directors" and "entire Board" mean the total authorized number of directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Number
Section 3.5 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of a director or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such director, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the entire Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
Vacancies
Section 3.6 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the shareholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause.
Removal of Directors
Section 3.7 . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, and these By-Laws and subject to the other provisions of Sections 3.1(a) and (b), 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 of this Article III, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the corporation and fix their salaries and other compensation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the corporation, may grant general or limited authority to its Chairman, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President and the Group Presidents and other officers and agents of the corporation to make, execute and deliver contracts and other instruments and documents in the name and on behalf of the corporation and under its seal without specific authority in each case, and shall determine to the extent not inconsistent with these By-Laws the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board action. In addition, the Board may exercise all of the powers of the corporation and do all lawful acts and things which are not reserved to the shareholders by statute, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or the By-Laws.
General Powers
Section 3.8 . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the entire Board, appoint an Executive Committee, to consist of the chief executive officer of the corporation and at least two other Directors, which shall be empowered to perform such functions as may be delegated to it by the Board. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall act as chairman of the Executive Committee unless another member shall have been appointed chairman by the Board of Directors.
Executive Committee
Section 3.9 . The Board of Directors, not later than April 30 in each year, shall by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the entire Board appoint an Audit Committee to consist of three or more Directors (none of whom shall be an officer of the corporation or of any of its subsidiary companies) and may appoint one of the members of such Committee to be its Chairman. The Committee shall appoint, annually, a firm of certified public accountants to audit the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary companies and to report to the Committee. The Committee shall confer with such accountants and shall determine the scope of the audits of the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary companies and shall bring to the attention of the Board of Directors those items relating to the audits or the corporation's accounting practices which the Committee and the auditors believe to merit Board review. As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year the Committee shall transmit to the Board of Directors the consolidated balance sheet of the corporation and its subsidiary companies as at the end of each such fiscal year and related statements of consolidated income and surplus for such year, with the certificate of the accountants with respect thereto; and such financial statements and certificate shall be incorporated in the Annual Report to the shareholders of the corporation. The Audit Committee shall establish the rules for the conduct of its meetings; shall keep minutes of its acts and proceedings, which in each instance shall be reported at the next meeting of the Board of Directors.
Audit Committee
Section 3.10 . The Board of Directors may meet and organize immediately after and at the place where the annual meeting of shareholders is held, without notice of such meeting, a majority of the entire Board shall be present. Regular meetings of the Board may be held without notice at such time and place as from time to time may be determined by the Board. Special meetings of the Board or of any Committee thereof may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary, on the written request of any two directors. Notice of any special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be mailed to such director, or such Committee member, including alternates as the case may be, addressed to such director, or such Committee member, at such director's, or such Committee member's, residence or usual place of business, not later than the second day before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such director, or such Committee member, at such place by rapifax, by telegraph, or by other means such as electronic advice or be delivered personally, or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Notice of any meeting of the Board or of any Committee need not be given, however, to any director, if waived by such director in writing, either before or after such meeting be held, or if such director shall be present at the meeting; and any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members shall be present thereat. A majority of the directors in office at the time of any regular or special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be present in person at such meeting in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any one or more directors or Committee members may participate in any meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment permitting all persons participating in such meeting to hear each other at the same time, participation by such means to constitute presence in person at such meeting. Except as otherwise required by statute or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or by the By-Laws, the act of a majority of the directors or Committee members present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors or Committee members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. Action by the Board or any Committee thereof may be taken without a meeting that all members of the Board or Committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing such action, such resolution and written consent thereto by the directors or Committee members to be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or Committee.
Meetings of the Board; Quorum and Manner of Acting
provided
provided
Section 3.11 . In consideration of a director serving in such capacity, each director of the corporation, other than directors who are officers of the corporation or any of its subsidiary companies, shall be entitled to receive an annual fee in such amount and payable in such installments, as the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the entire Board, may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors shall also have authority to determine, from time to time, the amount of compensation which shall be paid to its members for attendance at meetings of any committee of the Board as well as to any director rendering special services to the corporation.
Directors' Fees
Section 4.1 . The elected officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors (who shall be a director), a Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Vice Chairmen, a President or one or more Group Presidents, a Controller, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may elect or appoint an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Honorary Vice Presidents, and corresponding Officers Emeriti: and either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may elect or appoint one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, one or more Assistant Controllers, and such other assistant officers and agents as, from time to time, may appear to be necessary or advisable in the conduct of the affairs of the corporation. The Board of Directors may designate an officer as the principal or chief executive officer of the corporation who, under the direction of the Board of Directors, shall have the general management, direction and superintendence of the business and affairs of the corporation. The Board of Directors may also designate an officer (or two or more officers acting together) as the principal operating officer of the corporation with responsibility for the business, property and affairs of the corporation. Either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may designate one or more officers or assistant officers as the principal financial officer of the corporation or the principal accounting officer of the corporation. The same person may be elected or appointed to two or more offices except that no person shall simultaneously hold the offices of President or Group President and Secretary. So far as practicable, all elected officers shall be elected at the organization meeting of the Board, in each year, and shall hold office until the organization meeting of the Board in the next subsequent year and until their respective successors are chosen; but any officer, elected or appointed, may be removed at any time, either for or without cause, by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any meeting. All officers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Board. If any vacancy occurs in any office, the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, as provided above, may elect or appoint a successor to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the term.
Officers
Section 4.2 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Executive Committee in the absence of a chairman of such Committee appointed by the Board. The Chairman shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Section 4.3 . The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall act in a general consultative and advisory capacity to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman of the Executive Committee by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Executive Committee
Section 4.4 . The Vice Chairmen shall perform, in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Executive Committee or when so directed by either, the duties of such officer. They shall have such further powers and duties as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Vice Chairmen
Section 4.5 . The President, under the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, shall have superintendence of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation. The President shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors. In the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Vice Chairmen, the President shall perform the duties of those officers.
President
Section 4.6 . A Group President shall, under the direction of the chief operating officer of the corporation, or if no one has been so designated, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, have superintendence of such segments of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation and such further powers and duties as may be given or assigned to a Group President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Group President
Section 4.7 . The Executive Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President or a Group President.
Executive Vice Presidents
Section 4.8 . The Senior Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen or the President or a Group President. From time to time one of the Senior Vice Presidents may be designated as the Senior Vice President for Finance. The Senior Vice President for Finance may hold any other office in the corporation.
Senior Vice Presidents
Section 4.9 . The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President or a Group President, or an Executive Vice President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10 . The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the corporate funds and securities. The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the corporation in the manner ordered by the Board. The Treasurer shall upon request render an account of all the Treasurer's transactions as Treasurer to the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Treasurer's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or such other officers, directors or agents as may be designated by the Board of Directors shall endorse checks, notes or drafts payable to the order of the corporation and sign and countersign checks, drafts and orders for the payment or withdrawal of moneys or securities on deposit in the corporate accounts in such manner as the Board may direct. The Treasurer shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Treasurer by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, or the President.
Treasurer
Section 4.11 . The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee and of the shareholders. The Secretary shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the corporation. The Secretary shall affix the seal of the corporation to all certificates of stock, except in cases where the transfer agent of the corporation is authorized to affix the seal. The Secretary shall have charge of the stock certificate books, other than those in the hands of the transfer agent, and such other books and papers as the Board may direct. The Secretary shall attend to such correspondence as may be assigned to the Secretary, and perform all other duties incidental to the Secretary's office. The Secretary shall keep a stock record containing the names, alphabetically arranged, of all persons who are shareholders of the corporation, showing their places of residence, the number of shares of stock held by them respectively, and the time when they became owners. The Secretary shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Secretary by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12 . The General Counsel shall be the legal adviser of the corporation. The General Counsel may hold any other office in the corporation.
General Counsel
Section 4.13 . The Controller shall be responsible for and have active control of all matters pertaining to the accounts of the corporation. The Controller shall audit all payrolls and vouchers and shall direct the manner of certifying the same; shall supervise the manner of keeping all vouchers for payments and all other documents relating to such payments; shall receive, audit and consolidate all operating and financial statements of the corporation and its subsidiaries; and shall have the care, custody and supervision of the books of account of the corporation. The Controller shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Controller's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Controller shall, upon request, render an account of the financial condition of the corporation to the Board of Directors. The Controller shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Controller by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
Controller
Section 4.14 . Assistant Secretaries shall perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence of the Secretary, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
Section 4.15 . Assistant Treasurers shall perform the duties of the Treasurer in the absence of the Treasurer, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers
Section 4.16 . Assistant Controllers shall perform the duties of the Controller in the absence of the Controller, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or the Controller.
Assistant Controllers
Section 4.17 . No individual elected or appointed to an Honorary Office or an Emeritus Office pursuant to this Article IV shall have as a result of such election or appointment any rights, duties or responsibilities with respect to the business or affairs of this corporation as determined by law or the By-Laws of this corporation.
Emeriti and Honorary Officers
Section 5.1 . All payments for stock of the corporation shall be received by the Treasurer. Failure to pay an installment upon a stock subscription when required to be paid by the Board of Directors shall work a forfeiture of the shares of stock in arrears, pursuant to Section 503 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York.
Payments
Section 5.2 . The shares of stock of the corporation may be represented by certificates or uncertificated, as provided by New York law. To the extent shares are represented by a certificate, the certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and may be sealed with the seal of the corporation or a facsimile thereof. Where any such certificate is manually countersigned by either a transfer agent or a registrar (other than the corporation itself or its employee) any other signature on such certificate may be a facsimile, engraved, stamped or printed. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate was issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if that individual were such officer at the date of issue.
Certificates for Stock; Uncertificated Shares
Shares of the corporation's stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holder's name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, to the extent required by applicable law, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of that class of stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates and the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
Section 5.3 . The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, appoint responsible banks or trust companies or other qualified institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York and in such other cities or states as the Board may deem advisable, to act as transfer agents or registrars of the stock of the corporation; and, upon such appointments being made, no stock certificates shall be valid until countersigned by one of such transfer agents and registered by one of such registrars and no issuance or transfer of any uncertificated shares shall be valid until book-entry thereof shall have been made on the records of such transfer agents or registrars.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
Section 5.4 . Transfers of stock represented by certificates shall be made on the books of the corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by an attorney-in-fact lawfully constituted in writing and upon surrender and cancellation of a certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of the same class of stock, with duly executed assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, and with such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Transfers of uncertificated shares shall by made on the books of the corporation only by the record holder thereof, or by an attorney-in-fact, upon presentation of proper evidence of authority to transfer in accordance with customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form. Written notice of the transfer shall be given by the corporation to the extent required by applicable law.
Transfers
Section 5.5 . The Board of Directors may fix a time, not exceeding sixty days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend, or the making of any distribution or for the delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of interest arising out of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, as a record time for the determination of the shareholders entitled to receive any such dividend, distribution, rights or interest. The Board of Directors at its option, in lieu of so fixing a record time, may prescribe a period not exceeding sixty days prior to the date for such payment, distribution or delivery during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made.
Determination of Shareholders of Record for Certain Purposes
Section 5.6 . The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any stock certificate and any holder of record of uncertificated shares as the holder in fact and owner of the shares represented thereby and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable claim to or interest in such stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof save as expressly provided by the laws of New York.
Shareholders of Record Recognized
Section 5.7 . In case any certificate of stock shall be lost or destroyed, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may authorize the issue of a substitute certificate or, at the request of the holder, substitute stock in uncertificated form, in place of the certificate so lost or destroyed, and may cause any substitute certificate to be countersigned by the appropriate transfer agent and such certificate or uncertificated stock shall be registered by the appropriate registrar; , that, in each such case, the lost or destroyed certificate shall be canceled on the books of the corporation and the applicant for a substitute certificate shall furnish to the corporation and to such of its transfer agents and registrars as may require the same, evidence to their satisfaction, in their discretion, of the loss or destruction of such certificate and of the ownership thereof and also such security and indemnity as may by them be required.
Lost Certificate
provided
Section 5.8 . The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, and not inconsistent with these By-Laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the corporation.
Regulations
Section 6.1 . At every meeting of shareholders the vote shall be conducted by one or more inspectors of election elected at the last annual meeting of shareholders or, if not so elected, appointed for that purpose by the Board of Directors or, if not so elected or appointed, elected by a per capita vote of the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy; and all questions respecting the qualification of voters, the validity of the proxies and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided by such inspectors who, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be duly sworn faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting with strict impartiality, and according to the best of their ability. If any inspector elected or appointed to act at any meeting shall be absent or refuse to act, or if such inspector's office shall become vacant, the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy shall, by a per capita vote, appoint another inspector to act in such inspector's place.
Inspectors of Election
Section 7.1 . The seal of the corporation shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the corporation followed by the words "Corning, NY", the year of its incorporation, and in the center of the circle the words "Founded 1851".
Seal
Section 7.2 . The seal of the corporation shall be in the custody of the Secretary, who shall have power to affix it to the proper corporate instruments and documents, and who shall attest it. In the Secretary's absence it may be affixed and attested by an Assistant Secretary or affixed and attested by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. The transfer agent of the stock of the corporation may have a facsimile thereof and affix the same to stock certificates issued by it.
Affixing and Attesting
Section 8.1 . All checks, drafts, notes and other negotiable instruments of the corporation shall be signed, countersigned and endorsed by such directors, officers and agents as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time.
Signatures to Negotiable Paper
Section 8.2 . In the absence of any officer, or for any other reason, the Board of Directors may delegate the powers or duties of an officer to another officer or director.
Delegation of Duties
Section 8.3 . Dividends upon the shares of the capital stock of the corporation may be declared and paid out of the net assets of the corporation in excess of its capital, as often and at such times as the Board of Directors may determine, subject to the limitations set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended.
Dividends
Section 8.4 . (a) To the full extent authorized or permitted by law, the corporation shall indemnify any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, including an action by or in the right of this corporation or any corporation of any type or kind, domestic or foreign, or any joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, partnership or other enterprise, which any director or officer of the corporation served in any capacity at the request of the corporation, by reason of the fact that such person, such person's testator or intestate, is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the corporation, or is serving or served or agreed to serve in any capacity such other corporation, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, partnership or other enterprise, and such person is serving or served or agreed to serve at the request of the corporation. Without limitation of the foregoing, such indemnification shall include indemnification against all judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement, taxes, penalties and reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees and costs of investigation or defense reasonably incurred by any such person in connection with any such action or proceeding or any appeal therein, and which expenses have not been recouped by such person in any other manner.
Indemnification of Directors and Officers
(b) . Upon the request of any person entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII, the corporation shall pay promptly to such person all expenses reasonably incurred by such person in connection with an action or proceeding with respect to which such person is, in the absence of a final adjudication adverse to such person, entitled to indemnification hereunder; that such payment shall be subject to the receipt by the corporation of that person's undertaking to repay the portion of such expenses to which it is finally determined that such person is not entitled; and that no such payment shall be made if a majority of disinterested directors of the corporation, such majority constitutes a quorum of the Board, or if there is not a quorum of disinterested directors, independent legal counsel not a party to such action or proceeding and not regular counsel to the corporation, determines in good faith that it is likely that such person will be found not to be entitled to such indemnification and will not in that event fulfill such person's undertaking to repay such advances. A person entitled to indemnification shall cooperate in good faith with any request by the corporation that common counsel be utilized by parties to an action or proceeding who are similarly situated unless to do so would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between or among such parties.
Advancement of Expenses
provided
provided
further
provided
(c) . Section 8.4 of this Article VIII shall be deemed to constitute a contract between the corporation and a person entitled to indemnification and may not, without the consent of such person, be amended to effect adversely such person with respect to any event, act or omission occurring or allegedly occurring prior to the end of the term of office such person is serving when such amendment is adopted. The corporation is authorized to enter into agreements with any of its directors or officers extending rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses to such person to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, but the failure to enter into any such agreement shall not affect or limit the rights of such person pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII, it being expressly recognized that all directors and officers of the corporation, by serving as such after the adoption hereof, are acting in reliance hereon and the corporation is estopped to contend otherwise.
Contractual Article
(d) . The corporation may, but need not, maintain insurance at its expense insuring persons entitled to indemnification under Section 8.4 of this Article VIII against liabilities whether or not such liabilities are indemnifiable pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII.
Insurance
(e) . The indemnification provided by Section 8.4 of this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a director or officer of the corporation may be entitled.
Non-exclusivity
(f) . If and to the extent that any provision of Section 8.4 of this Article VIII is inconsistent with Article 7 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, such provision shall be deemed to have been amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such Article 7.
Amendment to Conform to Business Corporation Law
Section 8.5 . Except as otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President, any Group President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any other Vice President shall sign and execute all contracts, instruments and documents in the name of the corporation.
Signatures to Contracts
Section 9.1 .
Amendments
(a) The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of Sections 3.1(a) and (b), 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 of Article III of these By-Laws and this Section 9.1(a); , , that this Section 9.1(a) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal, or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
provided
however
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 9.1(a) of this Article IX, these By-Laws may be altered or repealed, in any respect, and new By-Laws, not inconsistent with any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or any provision of law, may be adopted, either by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority in number of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, given at an annual meeting, or at any special meeting the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof, or by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, given at any meeting thereof, the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof.
Section 9.2 . All prior By-Laws of the Company are hereby repealed.
Repeal of Old By-Laws

Exhibit 3(ii)2
1. Principal Office. The principal office and place of business of the corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York.
2. Other Offices. The Board of Directors may establish and discontinue, from time to time, other offices and places of business as it deems advisable and proper for the conduct of the company's business.
1. Place of Meeting. All meetings of shareholders of the corporation may be held at such place, within or without the State of New York, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
2. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and consideration of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on the last Thursday in April of each year, or on such other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of shareholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such annual meeting of shareholders.
3. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon order of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or a majority of the directors.
4. Notice of Meetings. Notice of each annual or special meeting of the shareholders shall be served either personally or by mail or electronically upon each shareholder entitled to vote thereat. If served by mail, the notice shall be sent postpaid addressed to the shareholder at such shareholder's address as it appears on the stock record of the corporation. If served electronically, the notice shall be sent to the e-mail or electronic address as supplied by the shareholder to the Secretary. Service of such notice shall be made not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days before the meeting date.
5. Waiver of Notice. Notice of meeting need not be given to any shareholder who submits a waiver of notice, in person or by proxy, either before or after the meeting. Waiver of notice may be written or electronic. The attendance of any shareholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by such shareholder.
6. Chairman and Secretary of Meeting. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in the Chairman's absence and in the order named, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President present at the meeting shall call to order and preside at all meetings of shareholders, and the Secretary of the corporation, or in the Secretary's absence, the senior of the Assistant Secretaries (determined by the order of their election) present at the meeting shall act as secretary.
7. Shareholders Entitled to Vote. Unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, every shareholder of record shall be entitled at every meeting of the corporation to one vote for every share of stock standing in such shareholder's name on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors may prescribe a period, not exceeding sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of the shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of a shareholder may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting, during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made; or in lieu of prohibiting the transfer of stock may fix a time not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of shareholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting as the time as of which shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such a meeting or whose consent or dissent is required or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be determined, and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time and no others shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or to express their consent or dissent as the case may be.
8. Quorum and Adjournment. Holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall constitute a quorum at all meetings, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or by these By-Laws. If, however, such majority, represented either in person or by proxy, is not present at any meeting, the shareholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without other notice than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite amount of voting stock shall be present; provided, however, that any shareholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the Chairman of the meeting. When the requisite amount of voting stock is present at an adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
9. Vote of Shareholders. At each meeting of shareholders, every shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting shall have the right to vote in person or by proxy duly appointed by an appropriate instrument, such as a writing, a telegram, a cablegram or other means of electronic transmission, in each case subscribed by or on behalf of such shareholder, and dated not more than eleven months prior to the meeting, unless such instrument provides for a longer period. The vote for directors shall be by ballot. In a vote by ballot each ballot shall state the number of shares voted and the name of the shareholder or proxy voting. Except as otherwise provided by law, or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election and any other corporate action to be taken by a vote of the shareholders shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such matter at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.
1. Election and Term.
(a) At the 1985 annual meeting of shareholders, the directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the 1986 annual meeting of shareholders, the term of office of the second class to expire at the 1987 annual meeting of shareholders and the term of office of the third class to expire at the 1988 annual meeting of shareholders. Commencing with the 1986 annual meeting of shareholders, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms have thereupon expired shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of shareholders after their election. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain or attain, if possible, the equality of the number of directors in each class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. If such equality is not possible, the increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes in such a way that the difference in the number of directors in any two classes shall not exceed one.
(b) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or a special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by Sections 1(a), 5 and 6 of this Article III unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
2. Nominations and Shareholder Business.
(a) Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (i) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by any shareholder of the corporation who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 2, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (A) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (B) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner [and any other direct or indirect pecuniary or economic interest in any shares of the corporation of such shareholder and such beneficial owner, including, without limitation, any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or profit sharing arrangement].
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 2 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 2 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new position created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
(b) Special Meetings of Shareholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2. Nominations by shareholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of shareholders if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 2 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.
(c) General.
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2 shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2. The Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 2, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of this Section 2, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by Dow Jones Newswires, The Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2. Nothing in this Section 2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any Series Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specific circumstances.
3. Qualification. Directors need not be shareholders. Acceptance of the office may be expressed orally or in writing, except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws.
4. Number. The number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the corporation shall be not less than nine nor more than twenty-four, the exact number within such minimum and maximum limitations to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be [twenty-one] unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the whole Board of Directors. As used in these By-Laws, the terms "whole Board of Directors" and "whole Board" mean the total authorized number of directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
5. Vacancies. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, newly created directorships and vacancies in any class of directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such class, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the whole Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
6. Removal of Directors. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the whole Board of Directors, may be removed by the shareholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause.
7. General Powers. The business, properties and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, and these By-Laws and subject to the other provisions of Sections 1(a) and (b), 4, 5 and 6 of this Article III, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the corporation and fix their salaries and other compensation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the corporation, may grant general or limited authority to its Chairman, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President and the Group Presidents and other officers and agents of the corporation to make, execute and deliver contracts and other instruments and documents in the name and on behalf of the corporation and under its seal without specific authority in each case, and shall determine to the extent not inconsistent with these By-Laws the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board action. In addition, the Board may exercise all of the powers of the corporation and do all lawful acts and things which are not reserved to the shareholders by statute, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or the By-Laws.
8. Executive Committee. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the whole Board, appoint an Executive Committee, to consist of the chief executive officer of the corporation and at least two other Directors, which shall be empowered to perform such functions as may be delegated to it by the Board. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall act as chairman of the Executive Committee unless another member shall have been appointed chairman by the Board of Directors.
9. Audit Committee. The Board of Directors, not later than April 30 in each year, shall by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the whole Board appoint an Audit Committee to consist of three or more Directors (none of whom shall be an officer of the corporation or of any of its subsidiary companies) and may appoint one of the members of such Committee to be its Chairman. The Committee shall appoint, annually, a firm of certified public accountants to audit the books and accounts of the Corporation and its subsidiary companies and to report to the Committee. The Committee shall confer with such accountants and shall determine the scope of the audits of the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary companies and shall bring to the attention of the Board of Directors those items relating to the audits or the corporation's accounting practices which the Committee and the auditors believe to merit Board review. As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year the Committee shall transmit to the Board of Directors the consolidated balance sheet of the corporation and its subsidiary companies as at the end of each such fiscal year and related statements of consolidated income and surplus for such year, with the certificate of the accountants with respect thereto; and such financial statements and certificate shall be incorporated in the Annual Report to the shareholders of the corporation. The Audit Committee shall establish the rules for the conduct of its meetings; shall keep minutes of its acts and proceedings, which in each instance shall be reported at the next meeting of the Board of Directors; and shall appoint one of its members to act as its Secretary.
10. Meetings of the Board; Quorum and Manner of Acting. The Board of Directors may meet and organize immediately after and at the place where the annual meeting of shareholders is held, without notice of such meeting, provided a majority of the whole Board shall be present. Regular meetings of the Board may be held without notice at such time and place as from time to time may be determined by the Board. Special meetings of the Board or of any Committee thereof may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary, on the written request of any two directors. Notice of any special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be mailed to such director, or such Committee member, including alternates as the case may be, addressed to such director, or such Committee member, at such director's, or such Committee member's, residence or usual place of business, not later than the second day before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such director, or such Committee member, at such place by rapifax, by telegraph, or by other means such as electronic advice or be delivered personally, or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Notice of any meeting of the Board or of any Committee need not be given, however, to any director, if waived by such director in writing, either before or after such meeting be held, or if such director shall be present at the meeting; and any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members shall be present thereat. A majority of the directors in office at the time of any regular or special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be present in person at such meeting in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any one or more directors or Committee members may participate in any meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment permitting all persons participating in such meeting to hear each other at the same time, participation by such means to constitute presence in person at such meeting. Except as otherwise required by statute or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or by the By-Laws, the act of a majority of the directors or Committee members present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors or Committee members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. Action by the Board or any Committee thereof may be taken without a meeting provided that all members of the Board or Committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing such action, such resolution and written consent thereto by the directors or Committee members to be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or Committee.
11. Directors' Fees. In consideration of a director serving in such capacity, each director of the corporation, other than directors who are officers of the corporation or any of its subsidiary companies, shall be entitled to receive an annual fee in such amount and payable in such installments, as the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the whole Board, may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors shall also have authority to determine, from time to time, the amount of compensation which shall be paid to its members for attendance at meetings of any committee of the Board as well as to any director rendering special services to the corporation.
1. Officers. The elected officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors (who shall be a director), a Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Vice Chairmen, a President or one or more Group Presidents, a Controller, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may elect or appoint an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Honorary Vice Presidents, and corresponding Officers Emeriti: and either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may elect or appoint one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, one or more Assistant Controllers, and such other assistant officers and agents as, from time to time, may appear to be necessary or advisable in the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate an officer as the principal or chief executive officer of the corporation who, under the direction of the Board of Directors, shall have the general management, direction and superintendence of the business and affairs of the corporation. The Board of Directors may also designate an officer (or two or more officers acting together) as the principal operating officer of the corporation with responsibility for the business, property and affairs of the corporation. Either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may designate one or more officers or assistant officers as the principal financial officer of the corporation or the principal accounting officer of the corporation. The same person may be elected or appointed to two or more offices except that no person shall simultaneously hold the offices of President or Group President and Secretary. So far as practicable, all elected officers shall be elected at the organization meeting of the Board, in each year, and shall hold office until the organization meeting of the Board in the next subsequent year and until their respective successors are chosen; but any officer, elected or appointed, may be removed at any time, either for or without cause, by vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors, at any meeting. All officers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Board. If any vacancy occurs in any office, the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, as provided above, may elect or appoint a successor to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the term.
2. Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Executive Committee in the absence of a chairman of such Committee appointed by the Board. The Chairman shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee.
3. Chairman of the Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall act in a general consultative and advisory capacity to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman of the Executive Committee by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
4. Vice Chairmen. The Vice Chairmen shall perform, in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Executive Committee or when so directed by either, the duties of such officer. They shall have such further powers and duties as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
5. President. The President, under the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, shall have superintendence of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation. The President shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors. In the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Vice Chairmen, the President shall perform the duties of those officers.
6. Group President. A Group President shall, under the direction of the chief operating officer of the corporation, or if no one has been so designated, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, have superintendence of such segments of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation and such further powers and duties as may be given or assigned to a Group President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
7. Executive Vice Presidents. The Executive Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President or a Group President.
8. Senior Vice Presidents. The Senior Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen or the President or a Group President. From time to time one of the Senior Vice Presidents may be designated as the Senior Vice President for Finance. The Senior Vice President for Finance may hold any other office in the corporation.
9. Vice Presidents. The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President or a Group President, or an Executive Vice President.
10. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the corporate funds and securities. The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the corporation in the manner ordered by the Board. The Treasurer shall upon request render an account of all the Treasurer's transactions as Treasurer to the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Treasurer's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or such other officers, directors or agents as may be designated by the Board of Directors shall endorse checks, notes or drafts payable to the order of the corporation and sign and countersign checks, drafts and orders for the payment or withdrawal of moneys or securities on deposit in the corporate accounts in such manner as the Board may direct. The Treasurer shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Treasurer by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, or the President.
11. Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee and of the shareholders. The Secretary shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the corporation. The Secretary shall affix the seal of the corporation to all certificates of stock, except in cases where the transfer agent of the corporation is authorized to affix the seal. The Secretary shall have charge of the stock certificate books, other than those in the hands of the transfer agent, and such other books and papers as the Board may direct. The Secretary shall attend to such correspondence as may be assigned to the Secretary, and perform all other duties incidental to the Secretary's office. The Secretary shall keep a stock record containing the names, alphabetically arranged, of all persons who are shareholders of the corporation, showing their places of residence, the number of shares of stock held by them respectively, and the time when they became owners. The Secretary shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Secretary by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
12. General Counsel. The General Counsel shall be the legal adviser of the corporation. The General Counsel may hold any other office in the corporation.
13. Controller. The Controller shall be responsible for and have active control of all matters pertaining to the accounts of the corporation. The Controller shall audit all payrolls and vouchers and shall direct the manner of certifying the same; shall supervise the manner of keeping all vouchers for payments and all other documents relating to such payments; shall receive, audit and consolidate all operating and financial statements of the corporation and its subsidiaries; and shall have the care, custody and supervision of the books of account of the corporation. The Controller shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Controller's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Controller shall, upon request, render an account of the financial condition of the corporation to the Board of Directors. The Controller shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Controller by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
14. Assistant Secretaries. Assistant Secretaries shall perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence of the Secretary, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary.
15. Assistant Treasurers. Assistant Treasurers shall perform the duties of the Treasurer in the absence of the Treasurer, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Treasurer.
16. Assistant Controllers. Assistant Controllers shall perform the duties of the Controller in the absence of the Controller, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or the Controller.
17. Emeriti and Honorary Officers. No individual elected or appointed to an Honorary Office or an Emeritus Office pursuant to this Article IV shall have as a result of such election or appointment any rights, duties or responsibilities with respect to the business or affairs of this corporation as determined by law or the By-Laws of this corporation.
1. Payments. All payments for stock of the corporation shall be received by the Treasurer. Failure to pay an installment upon a stock subscription when required to be paid by the Board of Directors shall work a forfeiture of the shares of stock in arrears, pursuant to Section 503 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York.
2. Certificates for Stock; Uncertificated Shares. The shares of stock of the corporation may be represented by certificates or uncertificated, as provided by New York law. To the extent shares are represented by a certificate, the certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and may be sealed with the seal of the corporation or a facsimile thereof. Where any such certificate is manually countersigned by either a transfer agent or a registrar (other than the corporation itself or its employee) any other signature on such certificate may be a facsimile, engraved, stamped or printed. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate was issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if that individual were such officer at the date of issue.
Shares of the corporation's stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holder's name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, to the extent required by applicable law, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of that class of stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates and the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
3. Transfer Agents and Registrars. The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, appoint responsible banks or trust companies or other qualified institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York and in such other cities or states as the Board may deem advisable, to act as transfer agents or registrars of the stock of the corporation; and, upon such appointments being made, no stock certificates shall be valid until countersigned by one of such transfer agents and registered by one of such registrars and no issuance or transfer of any uncertificated shares shall be valid until book-entry thereof shall have been made on the records of such transfer agents or registrars.
4. Transfers. Transfers of stock represented by certificates shall be made on the books of the corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by an attorney-in-fact lawfully constituted in writing and upon surrender and cancellation of a certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of the same class of stock, with duly executed assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, and with such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Transfers of uncertificated shares shall by made on the books of the corporation only by the record holder thereof, or by an attorney-in-fact, upon presentation of proper evidence of authority to transfer in accordance with customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form. Written notice of the transfer shall be given by the corporation to the extent required by applicable law.
5. Determination of Shareholders of Record for Certain Purposes. The Board of Directors may fix a time, not exceeding sixty days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend, or the making of any distribution or for the delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of interest arising out of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, as a record time for the determination of the shareholders entitled to receive any such dividend, distribution, rights or interest. The Board of Directors at its option, in lieu of so fixing a record time, may prescribe a period not exceeding sixty days prior to the date for such payment, distribution or delivery during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made.
6. Shareholders of Record Recognized. The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any stock certificate and any holder of record of uncertificated shares as the holder in fact and owner of the shares represented thereby and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable claim to or interest in such stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof save as expressly provided by the laws of New York.
7. Lost Certificate. In case any certificate of stock shall be lost or destroyed, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may authorize the issue of a substitute certificate or, at the request of the holder, substitute stock in uncertificated form, in place of the certificate so lost or destroyed, and may cause any substitute certificate to be countersigned by the appropriate transfer agent and such certificate or uncertificated stock shall be registered by the appropriate registrar; provided, that, in each such case, the lost or destroyed certificate shall be canceled on the books of the corporation and the applicant for a substitute certificate shall furnish to the corporation and to such of its transfer agents and registrars as may require the same, evidence to their satisfaction, in their discretion, of the loss or destruction of such certificate and of the ownership thereof and also such security and indemnity as may by them be required.
8. Regulations. The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, and not inconsistent with these By-Laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the corporation.
1. Inspectors of Election. At every meeting of shareholders the vote shall be conducted by one or more inspectors of election elected at the last annual meeting of shareholders or, if not so elected, appointed for that purpose by the Board of Directors or, if not so elected or appointed, elected by a per capita vote of the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy; and all questions respecting the qualification of voters, the validity of the proxies and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided by such inspectors who, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be duly sworn faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting with strict impartiality, and according to the best of their ability. If any inspector elected or appointed to act at any meeting shall be absent or refuse to act, or if such inspector's office shall become vacant, the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy shall, by a per capita vote, appoint another inspector to act in such inspector's place.
1. Seal. The seal of the corporation shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the corporation followed by the words "Corning, NY", the year of its incorporation, and in the center of the circle the words "Founded 1851".
2. Affixing and Attesting. The seal of the corporation shall be in the custody of the Secretary, who shall have power to affix it to the proper corporate instruments and documents, and who shall attest it. In the Secretary's absence it may be affixed and attested by an Assistant Secretary or affixed and attested by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. The transfer agent of the stock of the corporation may have a facsimile thereof and affix the same to stock certificates issued by it.
1. Signatures to Negotiable Paper. All checks, drafts, notes and other negotiable instruments of the corporation shall be signed, countersigned and endorsed by such directors, officers and agents as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time.
2. Delegation of Duties. In the absence of any officer, or for any other reason, the Board of Directors may delegate the powers or duties of an officer to another officer or director.
3. Dividends. Dividends upon the shares of the capital stock of the corporation may be declared and paid out of the net assets of the corporation in excess of its capital, as often and at such times as the Board of Directors may determine, subject to the limitations set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended.
4(a). Indemnification of Directors and Officers. To the full extent authorized or permitted by law, the corporation shall indemnify any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, including an action by or in the right of this corporation or any other corporation, by reason of the fact that such person, such person's testator or intestate, is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the corporation, or is serving or served or agreed to serve in any capacity such other corporation (foreign or domestic), joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, partnership or other enterprise, and such person is serving or served or agreed to serve at the express request of and on behalf of this corporation. Without limitation of the foregoing, such indemnification shall include indemnification against all judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement, taxes, penalties and reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees and costs of investigation or defense, reasonably incurred by any such person in connection with any such action or proceeding or any appeal therein, and which expenses have not been recouped by such person in any other manner.
4(b). Advancement of Expenses. Upon the request of any person entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 4 of this Article VIII, the corporation shall pay promptly to such person all expenses reasonably incurred by such person in connection with an action or proceeding with respect to which such person is, in the absence of a final adjudication adverse to such person, entitled to indemnification hereunder; provided that such payment shall be subject to the receipt by the corporation of that person's undertaking to repay the portion of such expenses to which it is finally determined that such person is not entitled; and provided further that no such payment shall be made if a majority of disinterested directors of the corporation, provided such majority constitutes a quorum of the Board, or if there is not a quorum of disinterested directors, independent legal counsel not a party to such action or proceeding and not regular counsel to the corporation, determines in good faith that it is likely that such person will be found not to be entitled to such indemnification and will not in that event fulfill such person's undertaking to repay such advances. A person entitled to indemnification shall cooperate in good faith with any request by the corporation that common counsel be utilized by parties to an action or proceeding who are similarly situated unless to do so would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between or among such parties.
4(c). Contractual Article. Section 4 of this Article VIII shall be deemed to constitute a contract between the corporation and a person entitled to indemnification and may not, without the consent of such person, be amended to effect adversely such person with respect to any event, act or omission occurring or allegedly occurring prior to the end of the term of office such person is serving when such amendment is adopted. The corporation is authorized to enter into agreements with any of its directors or officers extending rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses to such person to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, but the failure to enter into any such agreement shall not affect or limit the rights of such person pursuant to Section 4 of this Article VIII, it being expressly recognized that all directors and officers of the corporation, by serving as such after the adoption hereof, are acting in reliance hereon and the corporation is estopped to contend otherwise.
4(d). Insurance. The corporation may, but need not, maintain insurance at its expense insuring persons entitled to indemnification under Section 4 of this Article VIII against liabilities whether or not such liabilities are indemnifiable pursuant to Section 4 of this Article VIII.
4(e). Non-exclusivity. The indemnification provided by Section 4 of this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a director or officer of the corporation may be entitled.
4(f). Amendment to Conform to Business Corporation Law. If and to the extent that any provision of Section 4 of this Article VIII is inconsistent with Article 7 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, such provision shall be deemed to have been amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such Article 7.
5. Signatures to Contracts. Except as otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President, any Group President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any other Vice President shall sign and execute all contracts, instruments and documents in the name of the corporation.
1. Amendments.
(a) The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of Sections 1(a) and (b), 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Article III of these By-Laws and this Section 1(a); provided, however, that this Section 1(a) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal, or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the whole Board of Directors.
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 1(a) of this Article IX, these By-Laws may be altered or repealed, in any particular, and new By-Laws, not inconsistent with any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended,or any provision of law, may be adopted, either by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority in number of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, given at an annual meeting, or at any special meeting the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof, or by vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors, given at any meeting thereof, the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof.
2. Repeal of Old By-Laws. All prior By-Laws of the Company are hereby repealed.

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.2


