FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20100728071355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(607) 974-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Corning Incorporated press release dated July 28, 2010 regarding its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2010 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibit
99           Press Release dated July 28, 2010, issued by Corning Incorporated.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  JULY 28, 2010
 
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) today announced its results for the second quarter 2010.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Second-Quarter Highlights
Quarter Two Financial Comparisons
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations Web site.
We had an exceptional quarter with strong performance across our business segments, Wendell P. Weeks, chairman and chief executive officer, said. We saw global LCD glass volume increases, robust sales performance across our entire telecommunications product portfolio, and Gorilla glass now being used or designed into more than 200 mobile devices.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Two
Second-Quarter Segment Results
Sales in the Display Technologies segment were $834 million, increasing 7% sequentially and 24% year over year. Glass pricing for the quarter was down slightly on a sequential basis. Global LCD TV retail sales remained robust.
Telecommunications segment sales were $441 million, a 21% sequential increase, and much higher than anticipated. Year-over-year sales increased 4%*, excluding the impact of divestitures. The business saw sequential sales increases in all products and geographic regions during the quarter. In particular, private networks and new fiber-to-the-home projects in Canada were significant contributors to the increase.
Environmental Technologies segment sales were $184 million, a quarterly decline of 4% from an outstanding first quarter, but an increase of 39% on a year-over-year basis. The quarterly sales decline was due in part to movements in the Euro-versus-U.S.-dollar exchange rate.
Specialty Materials segment sales reached $126 million, a 31% sequential increase and 77% year-over-year improvement. The increase was driven by growing Gorilla glass sales, along with increased sales from advanced optics products.
Life Sciences segment sales were $125 million, a 6% increase over the previous quarter and 54% year over year. Second-quarter 2009 sales do not reflect results from Axygen Bioscience, Inc., which Corning acquired in September of last year.
Looking Forward
The third quarter has the potential to be another excellent quarter for Corning. LCD glass demand was much stronger than we expected in the second quarter. We believe the glass demand level will remain robust in the third quarter, James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer, said.
In the Display Technologies segment, Corning expects the combined glass volume at its wholly owned business and SCP to be consistent sequentially in comparison to a very strong second quarter. This projection reflects Cornings expectation that supply chain production will moderate slightly in the quarter. Corning believes that retail demand for LCD products will remain healthy in the second half of this year. The companys third-quarter glass price declines should be similar to the previous quarter.
The company expects its third-quarter Telecommunications segment sales to be flat to down slightly following a very strong second quarter. Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segment sales in the third quarter are expected to be consistent with the second quarter. Specialty Materials segment sales are expected to grow about 25%, driven by higher Gorilla glass sales.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Three
We see substantial growth opportunities for LCD glass in the future as LCD televisions begin to penetrate emerging economies. In addition, we expect that China will shortly become the worlds largest consumer market for LCD TVs, Flaws said, noting that last week the company announced plans to construct a new glass substrate facility in China and has restarted its Taichung, Taiwan expansion project.
Corning recently increased its forecast of 2010 capital expenditures to approximately $1.2 billion. The company expects 2011 capital expenditure levels to be $2 billion or more.
We are planning both sales and earnings growth over the next several years, Flaws remarked. To do so, we are maintaining significant levels of investment for several promising new technologies with the potential to achieve sizable revenues over the next decade. He noted that Cornings Gorilla glass, a protective cover glass that provides superior durability and scratch resistance, has emerged as one of the significant new business opportunities. There is vigorous customer pull for Gorilla glass and sales could reach $1 billion by 2011, especially as the product broadens its reach into the television market, Flaws said.
Upcoming Meetings
Corning will host a luncheon with Boston area investors on Tuesday, Aug. 3. For information on how to attend the luncheon, contact Corning's Investor Relations Department.
Second-Quarter Conference Call Information
The company will host a second-quarter conference call on Wednesday, July 28 at 8:30 a.m. ET. To participate, please call toll free (800) 230-1085 or for international access call (612) 288-0329 approximately 10-15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The password is QUARTER TWO. The host is SOFIO. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call, go to Cornings Web site at and click Investor Events on the left. A replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5:00 p.m. ET, Wednesday, Aug. 11, 2010. To listen, dial (800) 475-6701 or for international access call (320) 365-3844. The access code is 165308. The webcast will be archived for one year following the call.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Four
Presentation of Information in this News Release
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. Cornings non-GAAP net income and EPS measures exclude restructuring, impairment and other charges and adjustments to prior estimates for such charges. Additionally, the companys non-GAAP measures exclude adjustments to asbestos settlement reserves, gains and losses arising from debt retirements, charges or credits arising from adjustments to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, equity method charges resulting from impairments of equity method investments or restructuring, impairment or other charges taken by equity method companies and gains from discontinued operations. The company believes presenting non-GAAP net income and EPS measures is helpful to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the companys underlying performance. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found on the companys Web site by going to and clicking Financial Reports on the left. Reconciliation also accompanies this news release.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), which are based on current expectations and assumptions about Cornings financial results and business operations, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include: the effect of global political, economic and business conditions; conditions in the financial and credit markets; currency fluctuations; tax rates; product demand and industry capacity; competition; reliance on a concentrated customer base; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability of critical components and materials; new product commercialization;  pricing fluctuations and change s in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products;  new plant start-up or restructuring costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political or financial instability, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or major health concerns; adequacy of insurance; equity company activities; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; retention of key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are detailed in Cornings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Five
 
About Corning Incorporated
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
www.corning.com
 
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable operating segments include Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income follows (in millions):
 
 
 
On March 28, 2003, Corning announced that it had reached agreement with the representatives of asbestos claimants for the settlement of all current and future asbestos claims against Corning and Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC) which might arise from PCC products or operations (the 2003 Plan).  On December 21, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order denying confirmation of the 2003 Plan.  On January 10, 2008, some of the parties in the proceeding advised the Bankruptcy Court that they had made substantial progress on an amended plan of reorganization (the Amended PCC Plan) that resolved issues raised by the Court in denying the confirmation of the 2003 Plan.
As a result of progress in the parties continuing negotiations, Corning believes the Amended PCC Plan, modified as indicated below, now represents the most probable outcome of this matter and the probability that the 2003 plan will become effective has diminished.  The proposed settlement under the Amended PCC Plan requires Corning to contribute its equity interest in PCC and Pittsburgh Corning Europe, N.V. (PCE) and to contribute a fixed series of cash payments recorded at present value.  Corning will have the option to contribute shares rather than cash, but the liability is fixed by dollar value and not number of shares.  The Amended PCC Plan does not include non-PCC asbestos claims that may be or have been raised against Corning.  Corning has recorded an additional amount for such claims in its estimated asbestos litigation liability.  In the first quarter of 2010, several of the parties in the bankruptcy proceedings filed a modification of the Amended PCC Plan with the Bankruptcy Court which reduced the amount of cash expected to be contributed to the settlement.
In the second quarter of 2010, we recorded a charge of $5 million ($3 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components of the modified PCC Plan.
Weighted average shares outstanding are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


