FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20100602160336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Corning Incorporated press release dated June 2, 2010 regarding the election of John A. Canning, Jr. to the Board of Directors is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference. The Corning Board Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee had recommended and nominated Mr. Canning as a director candidate. The Corning Board at its June 2, 2010 meeting concluded that he had no related party transactions with the company under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, he qualified as independent, and named him to the Audit Committee and to the Finance Committee.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99
News Release
FOR RELEASE  JUNE 2, 2010
Corning Incorporated (NYSE: GLW) announced today the appointment of John A. Canning, Jr., co-founder and chairman of Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC, to the company's board of directors, effective immediately. The board determined that Canning qualifies as an independent director. In addition to his general responsibilities as a director, he will also serve on the board's finance and audit committees.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Canning will hold office until Corning's annual meeting of shareholders on April 28, 2011, at which time he will stand for re-election. His appointment brings the number of Corning directors to 15. The size of the board has ranged from 13 to 18 directors since 1990.
Canning, 65, brings extensive knowledge of finance and private equity investment to Corning's board. He spent 24 years with First Chicago Corporation, most recently as an executive vice president of The First National Bank of Chicago and president of First Chicago Venture Capital, prior to co-founding Madison Dearborn Partners in 1992. He served as MDP's chief executive officer from 1992 until assuming his current position as chairman in 2007.
He is active in numerous Chicago-based organizations. He is trustee and chairman of the Chicago Community Trust; trustee and chairman of The Field Museum; and chairman of the Chicago News Cooperative. He also serves on the board of trustees of the Museum of Science and Industry; Northwestern University; Northwestern Memorial Hospital; and the Big Shoulders Fund, which provides support to Catholic schools in inner-city Chicago.
Canning also serves on the boards of Exelon Corporation, an energy service provider; Rasmussen, Inc., a for-profit education company; and the Milwaukee Brewers Baseball Club. He is a commissioner of the Irish Pension Reserve Fund and a former director and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
Canning received a J.D. from Duke University in 1969 and an A.B. from Denison University in Granville, Ohio in 1966.
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
About Corning Incorporated
www.corning.com
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube


