FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20101101070300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(607) 974-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Corning Incorporated press release dated November 1, 2010 regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibit
99           Press Release dated November 1, 2010, issued by Corning Incorporated.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
 
 
FOR RELEASE  NOVEMBER 1, 2010
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) today announced its results for the third quarter of 2010.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Third-Quarter Highlights
Quarter Three Financial Comparisons
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations Web site.
 
 
 
Corning Announced Third-Quarter Financial Results
Page Two
Remarking on the third-quarter performance, Wendell P. Weeks, chairman and chief executive officer, said, Nearly all of our businesses had strong performances this past quarter.  We are very pleased with the expanding market pull for Corning Gorilla Glass, the renewed strength in automotive and diesel emissions control products sales, and the continued demand for fiber-to-the-home and data center solutions from our telecommunications business customers.
And while our LCD glass business adjusted with the supply chain correction that occurred in the third quarter, global retail demand for LCD products continued to show year-over-year growth in all markets other than televisions in the U.S.
Third-Quarter Segment Results
Sales in the Display Technologies segment were $645 million, declining 23% sequentially and 5% year over year. Volume at the companys wholly owned business declined about 25% sequentially and 5% year over year. Display Technologies performance benefited from a favorable Japanese yen-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate in the quarter. Glass price declines in the third quarter were comparable to the second quarter.
Samsung Corning Precision Materials volume was up 5% on a quarterly basis and 14% year over year.
Telecommunications segment sales were $464 million, an increase of 5% sequentially and 3% year over year. The improved performance was driven by continued demand for fiber-to-the-home products in North America and enterprise data center solutions globally.
Environmental Technologies segment sales were $208 million, a 13% quarterly and 25% year-over-year improvement. The company saw continued growth in both automotive and diesel emissions control products. The business improved its manufacturing performance in the quarter and continues to work toward increasing capacity to meet higher product demand.
Specialty Materials segment sales were $159 million, a 26% increase from the second quarter and 77% improvement year over year. Cornings Gorilla Glass drove much of the quarter increase, but the segment also saw improved sales in its advanced optics business.
Life Sciences segment sales were $125 million, even with the previous quarter, and a 36% improvement year over year. This improvement was driven mostly by the acquisition of Axygen Biosciences, Inc. which occurred in September of last year.
Cornings equity earnings totaled $504 million, compared with $474 million in the previous quarter and $418 million a year ago.
 
 
 
Corning Announced Third-Quarter Financial Results
Page Three
Looking Forward
We have seen a modest increase in utilization rates at the Taiwanese panel makers in October, said James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer. We believe this is in response to lower panel inventory levels and expectations for good worldwide retail demand during the upcoming holiday season. Our glass demand forecast is based on the assumption panel maker utilization rates will remain modestly higher the remainder of the fourth quarter in comparison to a much weaker September.
However, panel maker utilization rates this quarter may not rebound to the level they were prior to the inventory correction. As a result, we anticipate worldwide glass market demand could be flat to down slightly quarter to quarter, Flaws said.
The company expects the movement in combined glass volume at both its wholly owned business and SCP to be in line with the market in the fourth quarter.
Flaws added,We expect glass pricing at both our wholly owned business and SCP to decline in the mid-single digit range in the fourth quarter. This decline would be more than previous quarters and reflects pricing pressure caused by the current imbalance of glass supply and demand.
 
Following a strong third quarter, Corning expects fourth-quarter Telecommunications segment sales to experience a seasonal decline of about 10%, consistent with historical fourth-quarter performance. Environmental Technologies segment fourth-quarter sales are expected to be similar to the third quarter as growth in diesel offsets normal seasonal declines in the auto business. Specialty Materials segment sales are expected to grow 10% to 20% in the fourth quarter, driven primarily by continued strength in Corning Gorilla Glass sales for smartphones, slates, and other computing devices. Life Sciences segment sales, excluding the impact of its recent acquisition, are expected to be down slightly, due to seasonal adjustments.
We typically experience seasonal declines in many of our businesses in the fourth quarter which will reduce profits somewhat, Flaws said. Overall, the global display business continues to do quite well at the retail level and if this continues, coupled with the current utilization rates at panel makers, we expect the supply chain to exit the year with normal inventories. Of course, we must remain cautious about the potential negative impacts that global economic conditions could have on future retail trends.
Corning ended the third quarter with $5 billion in cash and short-term investments, up from $4.3 billion last quarter. Looking ahead, the company expects to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion in cash from non-U.S. locations in the fourth quarter. The company also revised its 2010 capital expenditure guidance, from $1.2 billion to $1 billion this year. The company made no changes to its expectations for 2011 capital spending, which is forecasted to be more than $2 billion. We expect to end the year with our balance sheet in great shape. This will provide us with significant financial flexibility for 2011," Flaws said.
 
 
 
Corning Announced Third-Quarter Financial Results
Page Four
In other matters, Corning has decided to discontinue its development and commercialization of synthetic green lasers. Given the rapid development of native green technology, the company concluded that the market for synthetic green lasers is limited.
We have made excellent progress in a number of our businesses this year. Corning Gorilla Glass sales for IT and handheld devices are exceeding our expectations and we anticipate starting shipments of TV cover glass this quarter. We are encouraged by the strength of the telecommunications market, especially with regard to our Pretium EDGE data center solutions and fiber-to-the-home products. Additionally, we have made significant progress in our thin-film photovoltaic development program. And we are improving our manufacturing performance and capacity to meet the strengthened demand we are seeing for our automotive and diesel engine emissions control solutions, Flaws concluded.
Upcoming Meetings
Corning will host an open luncheon for investors in Toronto, Canada on Wednesday, Nov. 3.  For information on how to attend the luncheon, contact Cornings Investor Relations Department. The company will present at the Barclays Technology Conference in San Francisco Dec. 8, and Corning will host its annual investor meeting Friday, Feb. 4 beginning at 8 a.m. in New York.
Third-Quarter Conference Call Information
The company will host a third-quarter conference call on Monday, Nov. 1 at 8:30 a.m. ET. To participate, please call toll free (800) 553-0288 or for international access call (612) 332-0630 approximately 10-15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The password is QUARTER THREE. The host is SOFIO. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call, go to Cornings Web site at and click Investor Events on the left. A replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5:00 p.m. ET, Monday, Nov. 15, 2010. To listen, dial (800) 475-6701 or for international access call (320) 365-3844. The access code is 174406. The webcast will be archived for one year following the call.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Presentation of Information in this News Release
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. Cornings non-GAAP net income and EPS measures exclude restructuring, impairment and other charges and adjustments to prior estimates for such charges. Additionally, the companys non-GAAP measures exclude adjustments to asbestos settlement reserves, gains and losses arising from debt retirements, charges or credits arising from adjustments to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, equity method charges resulting from impairments of equity method investments or restructuring, impairment or other charges taken by equity method companies and gains from discontinued operations. The company believes presenting non-GAAP net income and EPS measures is helpful to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the companys underlying performance. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found on the companys Web site by going to and clicking Financial Reports on the left. Reconciliation also accompanies this news release.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
Corning Announced Third-Quarter Financial Results
Page Five
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), which are based on current expectations and assumptions about Cornings financial results and business operations, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include: the effect of global political, economic and business conditions; conditions in the financial and credit markets; currency fluctuations; tax rates; product demand and industry capacity; competition; reliance on a concentrated customer base; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability of critical components and materials; new product commercialization;  pricing fluctuations and changes in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products;  new plant start-up or restructuring costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political or financial instability, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or major health concerns; adequacy of insurance; equity company activities; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; retention of key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are detailed in Cornings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
About Corning Incorporated
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
www.corning.com
 
 
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable operating segments include Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income follows (in millions):
 
 
 
On March 28, 2003, Corning announced that it had reached agreement with the representatives of asbestos claimants for the settlement of all current and future asbestos claims against Corning and Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC) which might arise from PCC products or operations (the 2003 Plan).  On December 21, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order denying confirmation of the 2003 Plan.  On January 10, 2008, some of the parties in the proceeding advised the Bankruptcy Court that they had made substantial progress on an amended plan of reorganization (the Amended PCC Plan) that resolved issues raised by the Court in denying the confirmation of the 2003 Plan.
As a result of progress in the parties continuing negotiations, Corning believes the Amended PCC Plan, modified as indicated below, now represents the most probable outcome of this matter and the probability that the 2003 plan will become effective has diminished.  The proposed settlement under the Amended PCC Plan requires Corning to contribute its equity interest in PCC and Pittsburgh Corning Europe, N.V. (PCE) and to contribute a fixed series of cash payments recorded at present value.  Corning will have the option to contribute shares rather than cash, but the liability is fixed by dollar value and not number of shares.  The Amended PCC Plan does not include certain non-PCC asbestos claims that may be or have been raised against Corning.  Corning has recorded an additional amount for such claims in its estimated asbestos litigation liability.  In the first quarter of 2010, several of the parties in the bankruptcy proceedings filed a modification of the Amended PCC Plan with the Bankruptcy Court which reduced the amount of cash expected to be contributed by Corning to the settlement.
In the third quarter of 2010, we recorded a charge of $6 million ($4 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components of the modified PCC Plan.
In the third quarter of 2010, we recognized a loss of $30 million ($19 million after-tax) upon the repurchase of $126 million principal amount of our 6.2% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2016 and $100 million principal amount of our 5.9% senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2014.
Weighted average shares outstanding are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


