FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20101201160113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Corning Incorporated ("Company") press release dated November 30, 2010 regarding the election of Glenn F. Tilton to the Board of Directors is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference. The Corning Board Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee had recommended and nominated Mr. Tilton as a director candidate. The Corning Board at its November 30, 2010 meeting concluded that he had no related party transactions with the Company under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, he qualified as independent, and named him to the Audit Committee and to the Corporate Relations Committee. On December 1, 2010, Mr. Peter F. Volanakis retired from the Company's Board of Directors, after ten years as a director. On July 30, 2010, the Company filed a Form 8-K on the announcement that Mr. Volanakis would retire from the Board of Directors and Finance and Executive Committees on December 1, 2010. Mr. Volanakis will retire as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company on or before December 31, 2010, following 28 years of distinguished service.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99
News Release
FOR RELEASE  NOVEMBER 30, 2010
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) today appointed Glenn F. Tilton, chairman of the board of directors of United Continental Holdings, Inc., (NYSE:UAL), and immediate past chairman, president, and chief executive officer of UAL Corporation, to Corning's , effective immediately. UAL Corporation is the parent company of United Airlines, where Tilton served as chairman and chief executive officer.
CORNING, N.Y. 
board of directors
Tilton, who qualifies as an independent director, will also serve on the Corning board's audit and corporate relations committees.
Tilton will hold office until Corning's annual meeting of shareholders on April 28, 2011, at which time he will stand for re-election to a one-year term. His appointment brings the number of Corning directors to 15. The size of the board has ranged from 13 to 18 directors since 1990.
Tilton, 62, brings four decades of experience with global markets and multinational industries to Corning's board. At UAL he led the company through a $23 billion restructuring, returned the airline to profitability, and successfully completed a merger between United and Continental Airlines.
Before joining UAL, Tilton spent more than 30 years with Texaco, Inc., progressing through leadership roles in marketing, corporate planning, and operations. He was named chairman and CEO of Texaco in 2001. After its merger with Chevron, he became vice chairman of ChevronTexaco.
He is also chairman of the Air Transport Association, the industry trade organization representing the leading U.S. airlines. Tilton serves on the boards of both United Continental Holdings and Abbott Laboratories.
Earlier this year, he was named by President Obama to the Presidential Export Council and by U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to the Future of Aviation Advisory Committee.
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
About Corning Incorporated
www.corning.com
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter


