FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20100730163040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2010, Corning Incorporated announced that Peter F. Volanakis will retire as President and Chief Operating Officer on or before December 31, 2010, following 28 years of distinguished service. Mr. Volanakis will retire from the Board of Directors and the Board's Finance and Executive Committees on December 1, 2010.
As approved by the Board's Compensation Committee on July 30, 2010, Corning will pay Mr. Volanakis $1,000,000 in December 2010 in recognition of his long service to the Company and for the retention of his services through year end.
Beginning January 1, 2011, Mr. Volanakis will perform consulting duties, under the terms of a transition agreement, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to Corning's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2010. For his continued advice and assistance through December 31, 2012, Mr. Volanakis will receive compensation of $903,000, to be paid in eight quarterly installments of $112,875 each, beginning March 31, 2011, and be reimbursed for reasonable travel and business expenses incurred at Corning's request. Mr. Volanakis will be entitled to benefits as a retired employee of the Company. The transition agreement requires Mr. Volanakis to adhere to certain confidentiality, non-compete and non-solicitation requirements.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
News Release
FOR RELEASE  JULY 29, 2010
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) announced today that Peter F. Volanakis, president and chief operating officer, will retire on or before Dec. 31, 2010 following 28 years of distinguished service with the company.
CORNING, N.Y. 
"On behalf of Corning's Board of Directors and Management Committee, I thank Pete for his outstanding leadership and service to the company over his nearly 30-year career," said Wendell P. Weeks, chairman and chief executive officer. "Over the past eight years, Pete has been my strategic partner and operations leader. He led the growth of the LCD glass business, the globalization of all of Corning's businesses, and drove a culture of operational and cost excellence throughout the company. He also played a key role in revitalizing Corning's innovation and growth initiatives. Corning would not be in the strong financial and strategic position it is today without him."
"I announce my retirement plans with both regret and anticipation," said Volanakis, 55. "While it is difficult to leave Corning, I am fortunate to be able to retire at an age which affords me a unique and exciting window for an entirely new set of professional and personal pursuits. The company's financial position is stronger than ever, and Corning is well-positioned for growth with outstanding opportunities in Display Technologies, and in Specialty Materials with Gorilla glass. My retirement also provides an opportunity for Corning's talented pool of division managers to develop into the next generation of company leaders."
With this announcement, the company will begin a leadership transition. Effective Sept. 1, Corning's division managers will report directly to Weeks. Volanakis will move into a transition role serving as a strategic advisor to the CEO. He will continue as a member of Corning's Management Committee and engage on high-priority corporate issues and decisions. Volanakis will step down as a director of Dow Corning Corporation in the fourth quarter and as a director of Corning Incorporated in December. "Pete's announcement and retirement timing will allow us to plan and execute an orderly leadership transition," said Weeks.
"Corning is truly a unique company with outstanding people, in a special community. I may be retiring from the company, but I will always be a member of the Corning family," said Volanakis.
Peter Volanakis to retire as Corning President and Chief Operating Officer
Page Two
About Corning Incorporated
Corning Incorporated (www.corning.com) is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
 


