FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20110503170944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
James J. O'Connor, 74, Chairman of Armstrong World Industries, Inc., retired from the Corning Board of Directors after the April 28, 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders after reaching the Board's mandatory retirement age and after more than 26 years as a Corning Director. Corning's Board appointed William D. Smithburg, 72, as Lead Director following Mr. O'Connor's retirement. Mr. Smithburg is Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Quaker Oats Company and has served on Corning's Board since 1987.
(a)  (b) Our annual meeting of shareholders was held on April 28, 2011. At that meeting, shareholders elected each of the six nominees to the Board of Directors for a one-year term: John Seely Brown, John A. Canning, Jr., Gordon Gund, Kurt M. Landgraf, H. Onno Ruding and Glenn F. Tilton. Shareholders also voted: in favor of the advisory vote on executive compensation of our Named Executive Officers; in favor of having an advisory vote every one (1) year by shareholders on Named Executive Officer executive compensation; and ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2011. Shareholders did not approve the shareholder proposal requesting that holders of 10% of stock can call special shareowner meetings. Those elected and the final voting results are as follows:
1. Election of Directors:
 
James B. Flaws, Deborah D. Rieman and Mark S. Wrighton continued as directors for terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2012. Robert F. Cummings, Jr., William D. Smithburg, Hansel E. Tookes II, and Wendell P. Weeks continued as directors for terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2013.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


