FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20110125071710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(607) 974-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Corning Incorporated press release dated January 25, 2011 regarding its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibit
99           Press Release dated January 25, 2011, issued by Corning Incorporated.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  JANUARY 25, 2011
Corning Incorporated (NYSE: GLW) today announced its results for the fourth quarter of 2010.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Fourth-Quarter Highlights
Full-Year Highlights
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations Web site.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Financial Results
Page Two
Quarter Four Financial Comparisons
Full-Year Financial Comparisons
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations Web site.
Wendell P. Weeks, chairman, chief executive officer and president, said, This past year was one of the most successful in the companys 160-year history. Back in February, we said that our goal was to emerge from the recession as a stronger, more profitable company. I believe we have accomplished this.
We achieved excellent financial results with strong sales growth and net profit improvement in each of our businesses. We substantially grew our cash position and saw the emergence of a significant new opportunity with Corning Gorilla Glass. Overall, it was a very good year for Corning.
Fourth-Quarter Segment Results
Sales in the Display Technologies segment were $750 million, increasing 16% sequentially and 5% year over year. Volume at the companys wholly owned business increased almost 20% sequentially and about 10% year over year. Samsung Corning Precision Materials volume declined nearly 15% on a quarterly basis and about 5% year over year. Glass price declines were down in the mid-single digits sequentially, and in line with expectations.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Financial Results
Page Three
Telecommunications segment sales were $443 million, down 5% sequentially, but up 9% year over year. The typical quarterly seasonal downturn was milder than originally expected.
Environmental Technologies segment sales were $232 million, a 12% sequential increase and 28% year-over-year improvement. The company saw strong growth for its light-duty and heavy-duty diesel engine filters as well as sustained demand for its automotive substrates.
Specialty Materials segment sales were $197 million, a 24% sequential increase and 79% year-over-year business improvement. Most of the sales increase was driven by the rapidly growing market demand for Corning Gorilla Glass.
Life Sciences segment sales were $140 million, a 12% sequential increase, and 20% year-over-year growth. The growth was driven primarily by acquisitions.
Cornings equity earnings were $511 million, including several one-time gains recorded as special items. Without these special items, equity earnings would have been $408 million* for the quarter.
In the quarter, Corning recouped $324 million ($206 million after tax) from a settlement for business interruption and property insurance claims in the Display Technologies segment resulting from earthquake activity near the companys Shizuoka, Japan facility and a power disruption at the Taichung, Taiwan facility in 2009.
Corning ended the year with over $6.3 billion in cash and short-term investments. This is up from $3.6 billion at the beginning of the year.
Looking Forward
James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer, said, We are entering the year with excellent momentum. Cornings Gorilla Glass is poised for dramatic sales growth. We believe the display supply chain exited 2010 with healthy levels of inventory. Corning is well positioned in each of our business segments to take advantage of the global economic recovery that is underway.
In the display segment, Corning expects sequential glass volume for both its wholly owned business and Samsung Corning Precision to increase by the mid-single digits in the quarter. Glass price declines are expected to be more moderate than those in the fourth quarter.
In the companys Telecommunications segment, first-quarter sales are expected to be consistent with a very strong fourth quarter, and 20% higher than from a year ago.
Environmental Technologies segment sales are expected to be in line with the very robust fourth quarter and up about 20% over last year.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Financial Results
Page Four
Specialty Materials segment sequential sales growth in the quarter should be in the range of 20% to 25%, which would be more than double year over year, driven primarily by Corning Gorilla Glass.
The Life Sciences segment first-quarter sales are expected to increase slightly sequentially and be up about 20% year over year.
Corning anticipates that equity earnings from Dow Corning Corporation will improve sequentially. Overall equity earnings are expected to be down 5%, excluding the impact of the one-time gains in last years fourth quarter.
As previously disclosed, Cornings tax rate for 2011 will move up substantially due primarily to the non-repeat of the benefit of foreign tax credits. Corning anticipates its 2011 full-year tax rate will be approximately 15%. This new higher rate will take effect in the first quarter.
Upcoming Events
Corning will host investors and provide more information on its 2011 outlook at its annual investor meeting in New York on Friday, Feb. 4 at 9 a.m. ET at Cipriani on 42 Street. Corning will showcase products and technologies prior to the meeting. The companys exhibits, including hands-on Gorilla Glass product demonstrations, will be available for viewing starting at 7:30 a.m. The exhibits will close at 9 a.m. Senior management will also be available during the exhibit period to answer individual investor questions. Attendees can register online at the companys investor relations Web site. A live audio and video cast will be available through the companys investor relations Web site.
nd
Corning will also be presenting at the Goldman Sachs Technology Conference Feb. 15, and at the Morgan Stanley Media and Telecom Conference March 1, both in San Francisco.
Fourth-Quarter Conference Call Information
The company will host a fourth-quarter conference call on Tuesday, Jan. 25 at 8:30 a.m. ET. To participate, please call toll free (800) 288-8974 or for international access call (651) 291-0278 approximately 10-15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The password is QUARTER FOUR. The host is SOFIO. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call, go to Cornings Web site at and click Investor Events on the left. A replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5:00 p.m. ET, Tuesday, Feb. 8, 2011. To listen, dial (800) 475-6701 or for international access call (320) 365-3844. The access code is 188589. The webcast will be archived for one year following the call.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Financial Results
Page Five
Presentation of Information in this News Release
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. Cornings non-GAAP net income and EPS measures exclude restructuring, impairment and other charges and adjustments to prior estimates for such charges. Additionally, the companys non-GAAP measures exclude adjustments to asbestos settlement reserves, gains and losses arising from debt retirements, charges or credits arising from adjustments to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, equity method charges resulting from impairments of equity method investments or restructuring, impairment or other charges taken by equity method companies and gains from discontinued operations. The company believes presenting non-GAAP net income and EPS measures is helpful to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the companys underlying performance. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found on the companys Web site by going to and clicking Financial Reports on the left. Reconciliation also accompanies this news release.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), which are based on current expectations and assumptions about Cornings financial results and business operations, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include: the effect of global political, economic and business conditions; conditions in the financial and credit markets; currency fluctuations; tax rates; product demand and industry capacity; competition; reliance on a concentrated customer base; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability of critical components and materials; new product commercialization;  pricing fluctuations and change s in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products;  new plant start-up or restructuring costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political or financial instability, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or major health concerns; adequacy of insurance; equity company activities; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; retention of key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are detailed in Cornings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Financial Results
Page Six
About Corning Incorporated
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 150 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
www.corning.com
 
 
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable operating segments include Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income follows (in millions):
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded $324 million ($206 million after-tax) on the settlement of business interruption and property damage insurance claims in the Display Technologies segment resulting from earthquake activity near the Shizuoka, Japan facility and a power disruption at the Taichung, Taiwan facility in 2009.
On March 28, 2003, Corning announced that it had reached agreement with the representatives of asbestos claimants for the settlement of all current and future asbestos claims against Corning and Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC) which might arise from PCC products or operations (the 2003 Plan).  On December 21, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order denying confirmation of the 2003 Plan.  On January 29, 2009, a proposed plan of reorganization (the Amended PCC Plan) resolving issues raised by the Court in denying the confirmation of the 2003 Plan was filed with the Bankruptcy Court.
As a result, Corning believes the Amended PCC Plan, modified as indicated below, now represents the most probable outcome of this matter and expects that the Amended PCC Plan will be confirmed by the Court.  Corning believes the 2003 Plan no longer serves as the basis for the Companys best estimate of liability.  The proposed arrangement under the Amended PCC Plan requires Corning to contribute its equity interest in PCC and Pittsburgh Corning Europe, N.V. (PCE) and to contribute a fixed series of cash payments recorded at present value.  Corning will have the option to contribute shares rather than cash, but the liability is fixed by dollar value and not number of shares.  The Amended PCC Plan does not include certain non-PCC asbestos claims that may be or have been raised against Corning.&# 160; Corning has recorded an additional amount for such claims in its estimated asbestos litigation liability.  In the first quarter of 2010, documents were filed with the Bankruptcy Court modifying the Amended PCC Plan by reducing the amount of cash expected to be contributed by Corning under the Amended PCC Plan in return for Corning relinquishing its claim for reimbursement of its payments and contributions under the Amended Plan from certain insurance carriers involved in the proceedings.
In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a net credit of $8 million ($5 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components of the modified PCC Plan.
In the fourth quarter of 2010, equity in earnings of affiliated companies included credits related to Dow Corning Corporation of $26 million ($24 million after-tax) for our share of a release of valuation allowance on foreign deferred tax assets, and $16 million ($15 million after-tax) for our share of excess foreign tax credits from foreign dividends.  Equity in earnings also includes a $61 million ($61 million after-tax) credit for our share of a revised Samsung Corning Precision tax holiday calculation agreed to by the Korean National Tax Service.
 
 
 
Weighted average shares outstanding are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


