FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20110427070312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(607) 974-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Corning Incorporated press release dated April 27, 2011 regarding its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibit
99           Press Release dated April 27, 2011, issued by Corning Incorporated.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  APRIL 27, 2011
Corning Incorporated (NYSE: GLW) today announced its results for the first quarter of 2011.
CORNING, N.Y. 
First-Quarter Highlights
 
First-Quarter Financial Comparisons
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations Web site.
 
 
 
Corning Announces First-Quarter Results
Page Two
Remarking on the strong first-quarter results, Wendell P. Weeks, chairman, chief executive officer and president, said, We built on the momentum coming out of 2010 to deliver exceptional year-over-year performance from all of our business segments. Our volume across the display business remained strong. We continued to experience very healthy sales and exceptional market acceptance for Gorilla Glass. Our telecommunications performance was robust and at levels we havent experienced in a number of years, and the recovery in the heavy-duty diesel market has driven our diesel sales to record highs.
First-Quarter Segment Results
Sales in the Display Technologies segment were $790 million, increasing 5% sequentially and comparable to a year ago. Glass price declines in the quarter were more moderate than the previous quarter, as expected.
Telecommunications segment sales were $474 million, a 7% sequential increase and 30% year-over-year improvement. Sequential sales for the quarter increased across most of the segments major product areas with significant demand for the companys fiber-to-the-home solutions. Corning noted that its optical fiber volume in March was higher than any other month in its history.
Environmental Technologies segment sales were $259 million, an increase of 12% sequentially and 35% year over year. The company saw record quarterly sales in diesel engine filters and increased automotive substrate sales.
Specialty Materials segment sales were $254 million, a 29% sequential increase and 165% year-over-year improvement. The growth was fueled by a 50% increase in Gorilla Glass sequential sales as more handheld and IT consumer device manufacturers make it the cover glass of choice. These Gorilla Glass sales include TV cover glass.
Cornings equity earnings totaled $398 million compared to $511 million in the previous quarter and $469 million a year ago. Equity earnings included nonrecurring gains of $103 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $21 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Gross margin for the quarter remained strong at 45%, an increase versus fourth-quarter gross margin of 43%. Net profit before tax*, excluding special items, was $867 million, an increase of 15% sequentially, and the result of strong sales growth, higher gross margin, and lower operating expenses. Excluding special items, net profit after tax was up only slightly sequentially, the result of the anticipated increase in the companys effective tax rate.
Looking Forward
James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer, said, First-quarter performance was tremendous and it bolsters our confidence that each of our business segments will experience substantial growth this year and for several years to come.
 
 
 
Corning Announces First-Quarter Results
Page Three
In the display segment, Corning expects combined glass volume in the second quarter to be consistent with the first quarter. Glass volume for the companys wholly owned business is anticipated to decline in the low- to mid-teen range sequentially, primarily the result of lower utilization rates at several customers. At Samsung Corning Precision, volume is expected to increase in the low- to mid-teen range for the quarter. Glass price declines are expected to continue to moderate.
Regarding the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and Sharp Electronics Corporations recent utilization reductions, Flaws said, We have reviewed the display component supply chain in Japan. It is our opinion that a potential component shortage that could cause a significant disruption is unlikely. With regard to Sharps decision to reduce production, we see this as a temporary situation that will not last beyond the second quarter.
As a result, the company expects a significant increase in LCD glass demand in the third quarter with Sharp resuming production and the global supply chain preparing for the seasonally strong fourth quarter.
 
Telecommunications segment second-quarter sales are expected to increase around 20% sequentially and be up nearly 30% year over year.
Environmental Technologies segment second-quarter sales are expected to decline slightly sequentially compared to a record first quarter. Year-over-year quarterly sales increases should be about 35%.
Specialty Materials sequential sales in the second quarter are expected to grow about 20%, the result of continued strong Gorilla Glass performance.
Corning anticipates that equity earnings will be up about 10% sequentially.
There are several key market trends that seem to be playing to Cornings strengths as we look to the future. These trends provide us with great opportunities across all our major businesses and position Corning to grow sales to more than $10 billion by 2014, Flaws concluded.
Upcoming Meetings
Corning executives will present at the JP Morgan Technology Conference in Boston, May 16, the Barclays Americas Select Conference in London, May 23, and at the Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference in New York, June 2.
 
 
 
Corning Announces First-Quarter Results
Page Four
First-Quarter Conference Call Information
The company will host a first-quarter conference call on Wednesday, April 27 at 8:30 a.m. ET. To participate, please call toll free (800) 230-1059 or for international access call (612) 234-9959 approximately 10-15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The password is QUARTER ONE. The host is SOFIO. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call, go to Cornings Web site at and click Investor Events on the left. A replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5:00 p.m. ET, Wednesday, May 11, 2011. To listen, dial (800) 475-6701 or for international access call (320) 365-3844. The access code is 199110. The webcast will be archived for one year following the call.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Presentation of Information in this News Release
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. Cornings non-GAAP net income and EPS measures exclude restructuring, impairment and other charges and adjustments to prior estimates for such charges. Additionally, the companys non-GAAP measures exclude adjustments to asbestos settlement reserves, gains and losses arising from debt retirements, charges or credits arising from adjustments to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, equity method charges resulting from impairments of equity method investments or restructuring, impairment or other charges taken by equity method companies and gains from discontinued operations. The company believes presenting non-GAAP net income and EPS measures is helpful to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the companys underlying performance. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found on the companys Web site by going to and clicking Financial Reports on the left. Reconciliation also accompanies this news release.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
Corning Announces First-Quarter Results
Page Five
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), which are based on current expectations and assumptions about Cornings financial results and business operations, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include: the effect of global political, economic and business conditions; conditions in the financial and credit markets; currency fluctuations; tax rates; product demand and industry capacity; competition; reliance on a concentrated customer base; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability of critical components and materials; new product commercialization;  pricing fluctuations and changes in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products;  new plant start-up or restructuring costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political or financial instability, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or major health concerns; adequacy of insurance; equity company activities; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; retention of key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are detailed in Cornings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
 
About Corning Incorporated
 
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
www.corning.com
 
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable operating segments include Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income follows (in millions):
 
 
 
On March 28, 2003, Corning announced that it had reached agreement with the representatives of asbestos claimants for the resolution of all current and future asbestos claims against Corning and Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC) which might arise from PCC products or operations (the 2003 Plan).  On December 21, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order denying confirmation of the 2003 Plan.  On January 29, 2009, a proposed plan of reorganization (the Amended PCC Plan) resolving issues raised by the Court in denying the confirmation of the 2003 Plan was filed with the Bankruptcy Court.
As a result, Corning believes the Amended PCC Plan, modified as indicated below, now represents the most probable outcome of this matter and expects that the Amended PCC Plan will be confirmed by the Court.  Corning believes the 2003 Plan no longer serves as the basis for the Companys best estimate of liability.  The proposed arrangement under the Amended PCC Plan requires Corning to contribute its equity interest in PCC and Pittsburgh Corning Europe, N.V. (PCE) and to contribute a fixed series of cash payments recorded at present value.  Corning will have the option to contribute shares rather than cash, but the liability is fixed by dollar value and not number of shares.  The Amended PCC Plan does not include certain non-PCC asbestos claims that may be or have been raised against Corning.  Corning has recorded an additional amount for such claims in its estimated asbestos litigation liability.  In the first quarter of 2010, documents were filed with the Bankruptcy Court modifying the Amended PCC Plan by reducing the amount of cash expected to be contributed by Corning under the Amended PCC Plan in return for Corning relinquishing its claim for reimbursement of its payments and contributions under the Amended Plan from certain insurance carriers involved in the proceedings.
In the first quarter of 2011, we recorded a charge of $5 million ($3 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components of the Modified PCC Plan.
Weighted average shares outstanding are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


