FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20110727071258.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(607) 974-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Corning Incorporated press release dated July 27, 2011 regarding its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibit
99           Press Release dated July 27, 2011, issued by Corning Incorporated.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  JULY 27, 2011
Corning Incorporated (NYSE: GLW) today announced its results for the second quarter of 2011.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Second-Quarter Highlights
Second-Quarter Financial Comparisons
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations Web site.
Second-quarter results were in line with our expectations, Wendell P. Weeks, chairman, chief executive officer and president, said. He added that the results demonstrate the company is moving toward its goal of becoming a more balanced global company by pursuing growth opportunities. Corning Gorilla Glass is the cover glass of choice for next-generation mobile devices; sales continued growing across our major telecommunications product lines; and global demand for our Environmental Technologies emissions products remained strong, he remarked.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Two
Second-Quarter Segment Results
Sales in the Display Technologies segment were $760 million, a decline of 4% sequentially and 9% year over year. The sequential sales result was due in part to the anticipated temporary curtailment of LCD TV production by Sharp Electronics Corporation. Sharp resumed production in the latter part of the quarter. Glass price declines were moderate.
Telecommunications segment sales were $548 million, an increase of 16% sequentially and 24% year over year. Sequential sales were strong across all major product lines.
Environmental Technologies segment sales were $258 million, essentially even sequentially, but a 40% year-over-year increase. Corning continued to experience very robust worldwide demand for both its diesel and automotive emissions control products.
Specialty Materials segment sales were $283 million, an 11% sequential and 125% year-over-year improvement driven by continued strong demand for Corning Gorilla Glass for handheld devices, tablets, and laptop computers.
Life Sciences segment sales were $155 million, an 8% sequential and 24% year-over-year increase. About half of the year-over-year growth rate was due to acquisitions.
Cornings equity earnings totaled $428 million compared to $398 million in the previous quarter and $474 million a year ago.
Gross margin for the quarter was 44%, a slight decline from the first quarter, but better than the company anticipated.
Looking Forward
The display industry has been behaving more cautiously in recent weeks, driven primarily by weaker retail expectations for the second half. We have seen many LCD TV brands reduce their sales forecasts for the year. As LCD panel manufacturers have taken a more measured approach to their supply chain demands, they may be waiting a little longer to raise panel fab utilization for seasonal fourth-quarter retail demand, Flaws said.
Based on the lower TV sales expectations and more conservative supply chain behavior, we now expect the worldwide glass market to be between 3.3 billion and 3.4 billion square feet this year, versus previous expectations of 3.5 billion to 3.7 billion square feet, Flaws remarked. In 2010, worldwide glass volume was 3.15 billion square feet.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Three
In the display segment, Corning expects combined glass volume in the third quarter to be consistent with the second quarter. Glass volume for the companys wholly owned business is expected to grow in the mid- to upper-single digits sequentially. At Samsung Corning Precision, volume is anticipated to decrease in the mid-single digits for the quarter. Glass price declines are expected to be moderate.
Telecommunications segment third-quarter sales are expected to increase slightly compared to the strong second-quarter performance, and to be up about 20% year over year.
Environmental Technologies segment third-quarter sales should be comparable with the strong second-quarter results.
The third-quarter growth rate in the Specialty Materials segment is expected to be in the upper-single digits. Corning Gorilla Glass is expected to grow 20% sequentially; however, other product lines in the segment are expected to be lower.
Looking forward, we no longer believe that Corning Gorilla Glass sales this year have the potential to reach $1 billion. Rather, we expect sales will be in the area of $800 million. This adjustment is driven by our realization that television cover glass sales will not be as strong as we originally hoped, Flaws added.
Overall, he said, we are delighted with our sales growth and the markets acceptance of Corning Gorilla Glass as the preferred cover glass product. Full-year sales are forecasted to be more than triple last years performance, he concluded.
Corning anticipates equity earnings will be down in the upper-single digits sequentially. The company also expects its gross margin for the quarter to improve by a couple of percentage points.
Corning has updated its capital expenditure guidance and now believes that spending this year will be at the lower end of the companys range of $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion. The company also has an initial estimate for 2012 capital expenditures in the range of $1.9 billion to $2.0 billion. Most of that planned capital spending will be for Corning products that are poised to grow rapidly over the next several years, such as Gorilla Glass, substrates for catalytic converters, diesel filters, optical fiber, as well as completing its new display glass facility in Beijing, China.
"We remain confident that Corning is on a growth track to reach $10 billion in sales by 2014. Our product innovations will be an important part of this growth story. We are seeing good progress in a number of areas and we are very encouraged by our advancements in photovoltaic glass panels and OLEDs, Flaws added.
The company noted it has seen increasing success in customer testing with its photovoltaic glass program for thin-film solar panels.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Four
Flaws said that Corning believes OLEDs will be an important component of the display industry in the future, requiring new, advanced glass compositions to maximize OLEDs potential. We have already developed a new glass for OLEDs which is in customer qualification tests now, and we are working on an additional new glass composition for large size OLEDs, he said.
These innovations, combined with the strong growth of existing new products such as Corning Gorilla Glass, Corning ClearCurve optical fiber, Pretium EDGE solutions for data centers, and Corning DuraTrap AT filters for diesel emissions control, will provide a solid foundation for our growth in sales, he concluded.
Upcoming Meetings
Corning executives will update their outlook on end markets and business performance at the Citi Technology Conference in New York on Sept. 8 and at the Deutsche Bank Technology Conference in Las Vegas on Sept. 13.
Second-Quarter Conference Call Information
The company will host a second-quarter conference call on Wednesday, July 27 at 8:30 a.m. ET. To participate, please call toll free (800) 230-1951 or for international access call (612) 332-0226 approximately 10-15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The password is QUARTER TWO. The host is SOFIO. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call, go to Cornings Web site at and click Investor Events on the left. A replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5:00 p.m. ET, Wednesday, August 10, 2011. To listen, dial (800) 475-6701 or for international access call (320) 365-3844. The access code is 209752. The webcast will be archived for one year following the call.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Presentation of Information in this News Release
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. Cornings non-GAAP net income and EPS measures exclude restructuring, impairment and other charges and adjustments to prior estimates for such charges. Additionally, the companys non-GAAP measures exclude adjustments to asbestos settlement reserves, gains and losses arising from debt retirements, charges or credits arising from adjustments to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, equity method charges resulting from impairments of equity method investments or restructuring, impairment or other charges taken by equity method companies and gains from discontinued operations. The company believes presenting non-GAAP net income and EPS measures is helpful to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the companys underlying performance. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found on the companys Web site by going to and clicking Financial Reports on the left. Reconciliation also accompanies this news release.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
Corning Announces Second-Quarter Results
Page Five
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), which are based on current expectations and assumptions about Cornings financial results and business operations, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include: the effect of global political, economic and business conditions; conditions in the financial and credit markets; currency fluctuations; tax rates; product demand and industry capacity; competition; reliance on a concentrated customer base; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability of critical components and materials; new product commercialization;  pricing fluctuations and changes in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products;  new plant start-up or restructuring costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political or financial instability, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or major health concerns; adequacy of insurance; equity company activities; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; retention of key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are detailed in Cornings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
 
About Corning Incorporated
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy and metrology.
www.corning.com
 
:
View Related Video
A Day Made of Glass
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our reportable operating segments include Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income follows (in millions):
 
 
 
Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC) was named in numerous lawsuits alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos and, on April 16, 2000, PCC filed for Chapter 11 reorganization.  Corning, with other relevant parties, proposed a Plan of Reorganization of PCC in 2003, which has not yet been confirmed.  Under this PCC Plan, Corning would contribute certain payments and assets.  In the second quarter of 2011, we recorded a charge of $5 million ($3 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components to be contributed by Corning under this PCC Plan.
In the second quarter of 2011, we recorded a charge of $5 million ($3 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components of the Modified PCC Plan.
Weighted average shares outstanding are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


