FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20120125070222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(607) 974-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Corning Incorporated press release dated January 25, 2012 regarding its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibit
99           Press Release dated January 25, 2012, issued by Corning Incorporated.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  JANUARY 25, 2012
Corning Incorporated (NYSE: GLW) today announced its results for the fourth quarter and year-end of 2011.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Fourth-Quarter Highlights
Full-Year Highlights
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations website.
Quarter Four Financial Comparisons
 
-1-
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Results
Page Two
Full-Year Financial Comparisons
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations website.
This past year was a very successful one for Corning, Wendell P. Weeks, chairman, chief executive officer, and president, said. We had the strongest annual sales performance in our 161-year history. We set new records for gross margin and operating income* (before special items). The company generated positive free cash flow* for the eighth consecutive year. We have a healthy balance sheet, and we raised our shareholder dividend and initiated a share repurchase program.
Four of our business segments - Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Life Sciences, and Specialty Materials - had excellent performance in 2011. The aggregate sales and net income* (before special items) of these segments grew 31% and 136 % respectively.  Sales of CorningGorillaGlass almost tripled. Our innovation investments paid off with the introduction of Corning Lotus Glass for OLED displays and a new, improved cover glass, CorningGorillaGlass 2. Our outstanding performance came despite the less-than-robust growth in economies around the world.
Weeks pointed out that 2011 was not without its challenges. In the fourth quarter, we experienced significant LCD glass price declines due to a confluence of factors in the display market. And our equity venture, Dow Corning Corporation, experienced major upheaval in the solar panel industry with lower demand and pricing of polysilicon materials. These price declines will reset the profitability of both Display Technologies and Dow Corning to lower levels.
He added, It is important to remember the strengths of these businesses. Dow Corning has the lowest cost and leading market position in the polysilicon industry. Cornings LCD business, which remains very profitable, has the lowest cost and the leading market position in the industry. It should continue to generate significant cash in the future.
Fourth-Quarter Segments Results
Sales in the Display Technologies segment were $780 million, a decline of 4% sequentially, but a 4% increase compared to a year ago. Glass price declines at both the wholly owned business and SCP were significant.
Telecommunications segment sales were $490 million, a decline of 13% sequentially and in line with the companys expectations. On a year-over-year basis, sales increased 11%.
Environmental Technologies segment sales were $234 million, a 5% quarter-over-quarter decline and basically even with last years fourth-quarter results.
Specialty Materials segment sales were $238 million, a 20% sequential decline and in line with Cornings expectations. Compared to last year, sales increased 21%.
 
-2-
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Results
Page Three
Life Sciences segment sales were $143 million, a 7% sequential decline and a 2% year-over-year gain.
Cornings equity earnings were $321 million and included a one-time gain of $89 million.
Corning ended the year with more than $5.8 billion in cash and short-term investments. Capital spending for the year was $2.4 billion, in line with the companys expectations.
Looking Forward
The display industry is in a period of transition and we are in the process of resetting expectations for its future growth and profitability, James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer, remarked. We are working closely with our customers to reduce glass prices to help them with their immediate financial strains. To that end, price declines will be significant in the first quarter of 2012, as they were in last years fourth quarter. We expect significant double-digit price declines over the cumulative two-quarter period. We are hopeful that our pricing actions, combined with our capacity decisions, will help us get back to more stable price declines in the coming quarters.
We believe the actions we have taken to reduce capacity have brought LCD glass supply closer to end market demand. If we correctly estimated retail demand and supply chain dynamics, then we believe worldwide glass supply will become balanced with glass demand at some point during the year. We will be cautious on pace and timing of bringing capacity back on line, Flaws said.
Corning is not anticipating much sequential change in the overall glass market in the first quarter. Volume at its wholly owned business should be in line with the glass market. At SCP, volume is expected to be flat to down in the double digits, depending upon the outcome of negotiations with a key customer.
The company expects the retail market for LCD products to grow from about 3.2 billion square feet to 3.6 billion square feet in 2012. This represents the amount of glass contained in LCD-based products sold to consumers, not the amount of glass shipped from glass makers to panel makers. The amount of glass shipped will be dependent upon panel maker utilization rates and supply chain dynamics, he explained.
In the companys Telecommunications segment, Corning is forecasting that demand for its fiber-to-the-home, enterprise networks, and wireless products will remain strong worldwide. For the full year, we expect our telecom sales to be up significantly, Flaws said. In the first quarter, sales are expected to increase between 5% and 10% sequentially and year over year.
Environmental Technologies segment sales are expected to grow in 2012, driven primarily by the global demand for the companys diesel emissions products. In the first quarter of this year, sales are expected to increase slightly.
Specialty Materials segment sales will be led by Corning Gorilla Glass. The company anticipates significant growth at retail for devices with cover glass, driven primarily by tablet computers and handheld IT devices. Flaws said, We do expect further yield improvements at our customers, as well as some price declines, this year. These will impact our sales growth.  In the first quarter, segment sales are anticipated to be up slightly.
 
-3-
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Results
Page Four
In the Life Sciences segment, Corning expects another strong year of sales, through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. For the first quarter, sales are expected to increase 10% sequentially, driven primarily by the acquisition of Mediatech, Inc., which occurred late in fourth quarter of 2011.
Equity earnings in the first quarter are expected to decline in the range of 5% to 20%, excluding special items, due to lower earnings at both Dow Corning and Samsung Corning Precision Materials.
Cornings tax rate is likely to increase to 20% in the first quarter and the full year, as expected.
Flaws remarked, We believe Corning is approaching a new floor in terms of profitability due to transitions in our LCD business and Dow Cornings polysilicon business. Moving forward, our plan is to grow profits from this new level.
To that extent, Flaws said, we anticipate strong sales and profit growth over the next several years in our Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials, and Life Sciences segments. Sales in the companys Display Technologies segment are not expected to grow, but the segment is expected to produce significant profits and cash going forward.
Overall, we anticipate generating strong free cash flow* over the next several years. We plan to use the cash for acquisitions to supplement growth, dividend payments, and our share repurchase program.
At Corning, we are not threatened by business transitions. We have faced many in the past and weathered them successfully. We believe our business portfolio is strong, we have a leading competitive position in each market, and our innovation investments will generate future growth, Flaws said.
The company will provide additional details on its first-quarter and full-year outlook at its annual investor meeting in New York on Feb. 3.
Upcoming Events
Corning will host investors and provide more information on its 2012 outlook at its annual investor meeting in New York on Friday, Feb. 3 beginning at 8 a.m. ET at Cipriani on 42 Street. Corning will showcase products and technologies prior to and following the formal meeting at 9 a.m. ET. The companys exhibits, including hands-on Gorilla Glass product demonstrations, will be available for viewing and senior management will also be available during the exhibit periods to answer individual investor questions. Attendees can register online at the companys investor relations website.
nd
Corning will also be presenting at the Goldman Sachs Technology and Internet Conference Feb. 14 and the Morgan Stanley Media and Telecom Conference Feb. 28, both in San Francisco.
 
-4-
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Results
Page Five
Fourth-Quarter Conference Call Information
The company will host a fourth-quarter conference call on Wednesday, Jan. 25 at 8:30 a.m. ET. To participate, please call toll free (800) 288-8961 or for international access call (612) 288-0340 approximately 10-15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The password is QUARTER FOUR. The host is SOFIO. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call, go to Cornings website at and click Investor Events on the left. A replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5:00 p.m. ET, Wednesday, Feb. 8, 2012. To listen, dial (800) 475-6701 or for international access dial (320) 365-3844. The access code is 233477. The webcast will be archived for one year following the call.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Presentation of Information in this News Release
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. Cornings non-GAAP net income and EPS measures exclude restructuring, impairment and other charges and adjustments to prior estimates for such charges. Additionally, the companys non-GAAP measures exclude adjustments to asbestos settlement reserves, gains and losses arising from debt retirements, charges or credits arising from adjustments to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, equity method charges resulting from impairments of equity method investments or restructuring, impairment or other charges taken by equity method companies and gains from discontinued operations. The company believes presenting non-GAAP net income and EPS measures is helpful to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the companys underlying performance. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found on the companys website by going to and clicking Financial Reports on the left. Reconciliation also accompanies this news release.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), which are based on current expectations and assumptions about Cornings financial results and business operations, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include: the effect of global political, economic and business conditions; conditions in the financial and credit markets; currency fluctuations; tax rates; product demand and industry capacity; competition; reliance on a concentrated customer base; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability of critical components and materials; new product commercialization; pricing fluctuations and changes in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products; new plant start-up or restructuring costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political or financial instability, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or major health concerns; adequacy of insurance; equity company activities; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; retention of key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are detailed in Cornings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
 
-5-
 
Corning Announces Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Results
Page Six
About Corning Incorporated
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy, and metrology.
www.corning.com
:
View Related Video
A Day Made of Glass
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
 
-6-
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
-7-
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
-8-
 
 
-9-
 
Our reportable operating segments include Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.
 
-10-
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income follows (in millions):
 
-11-
 
In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recognized a credit of $5 million resulting from a reduction in a contingent liability associated with an acquisition recorded in the first quarter of 2011.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, Corning recorded a $130 million asset impairment charge for certain long-lived assets in our Specialty Materials segment.
Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC) was named in numerous lawsuits alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos and, on April 16, 2000, PCC filed for Chapter 11 reorganization.  Corning, with other relevant parties, proposed a Plan of Reorganization of PCC in 2003, which has not yet been confirmed.  Under this PCC Plan, Corning would contribute certain payments and assets.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a charge of $9 million ($5 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components to be contributed by Corning under this PCC Plan.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, equity in earnings of affiliated companies included an $89 million ($83 million after-tax) credit for Cornings share of Dow Corning Corporations settlement of a dispute related to long term supply agreements.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a $13 million net tax provision related to the adjustment of deferred taxes as a result of enacted tax rate reductions primarily in Japan.
Weighted average shares outstanding are as follows (in millions):
 
-12-
 
 
-13-
 
 
 
-14-
 
 
 
-15-
 
 
-16-
 
 
-17-
 
 
-18-
 
* The percentage change calculation is not meaningful.
 
-19-
 
 
-20-
 
 
-21-
 
 
-22-
 


