FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20120501143754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02  DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
William D. Smithburg, 73, Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Quaker Oats Company, retired from the Corning Incorporated Board of Directors after the April 26, 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders pursuant to the Board's mandatory retirement policy, and after 25 years as a Corning Director. Corning's Board appointed Gordon Gund, 72, as Lead Director following Mr. Smithburg's retirement. Mr. Gund is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Gund Investment Corporation, and has served on Corning's Board since 1990. Glenn F. Tilton, 64, Chairman of the Midwest for JP Morgan Chase & Co., left Corning's Board when his term expired, and did not stand for re-election to Corning's Board at the end of his term.
As previously announced and effective April 30, 2012, Dr. Joseph A. Miller, Jr., 70, retired as Corning's Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer after 11 years of service. At its April 26, 2012 meeting, the Corning Board of Directors elected David L. Morse, 59, as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer to succeed Dr. Miller effective on May 1, 2012.
2012 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on April 26, 2012, the shareholders of the Company approved the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2012 Plan"). The following description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2012 Plan as referenced in Exhibit 99.1.
Purpose: The 2012 Plan is designed to provide a flexible mechanism to permit employees to obtain equity ownership in Corning, to increase their proprietary interest in the Company's growth and success.
Administration: The 2012 Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee"). The Committee will have broad discretionary authority (within the parameters specified in the 2012 Plan) including, but not limited to: determining eligibility; transferability of awards; interpreting the 2012 Plan's provisions; and administering the 2012 Plan in a manner that is consistent with its purpose.
Eligibility and Participation: Only persons who, at the time of an award, are officers or employees of Corning or an affiliated entity are eligible to participate in the 2012 Plan.
Number of Shares to be Optioned or Granted under the 2012 Plan: Subject to adjustment as contemplated by the 2012 Plan, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be used for awards and the settlement of options is 85,000,000.
How the 2012 Plan may be Amended or Terminated: The Board of Directors may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the 2012 Plan at any time, provided, however, that such amendment may not (i) increase the number of shares of Common Stock available under the 2012 Plan, or (ii) reduce the exercise price of any option to less than 100% of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") closing price as of the date of grant or allow for "repricing" of options, unless such amendment is properly approved by the Company's shareholders if such approval is required under applicable laws, rules and regulations, including the rules of the NYSE. No amendment shall adversely affect any outstanding award or option without the holder's consent.
Termination Date: The 2012 Plan will terminate on May 1, 2021.
ITEM 5.03  AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BY-LAWS; CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on April 26, 2012, the shareholders of the Company approved amendment and restatement of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated April 30, 2010, and filed with the Secretary of the State of New York on May 4, 2010 ("Certificate of Incorporation"), to remove the provisions currently requiring a supermajority vote of the Company's shareholders. The Board of Directors approved further amendments to revise the designation and numbering of paragraphs. The new Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and restated, is dated April 27, 2012 and was filed with the New York Secretary of State on April 27, 2012 (the "Restated Certificate of Incorporation"). Additionally, on April 26, 2012 and effective on that day, the Board of Directors amended the Company's By-Laws to reflect the deletion of current provisions requiring a supermajority vote of the Company's shareholders.
The amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation include:
 
 
The amendments to the By-Laws include:
 
The Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated April 27, 2012 and filed with the Secretary of State of New York that same date is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(i)1. The previous Certificate of Incorporation dated April 30, 2010 and filed with the Secretary of the State of New York on May 4, 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(i)2. The By-Laws as amended to and effective on April 26, 2012 are attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii)1; and the previous By-Laws, effective as of February 1, 2012, are attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii)2. The foregoing description of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the By-Laws does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation attached hereto as Exhibit 3(i)1 and the By-Laws attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii)1.
(a)  (b) Our Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on April 26, 2012. At that meeting, shareholders elected each of the ten nominees to the Board of Directors for a one-year term: John Seely Brown, Stephanie A. Burns, John A. Canning, Jr., Richard T. Clark, James B. Flaws, Gordon Gund, Kurt M. Landgraf, Deborah D. Rieman, H. Onno Ruding and Mark S. Wrighton. Shareholders also voted: in favor of the advisory vote on executive compensation of our Named Executive Officers; in favor of adoption of the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan; in favor of amendment and restatement of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to remove provisions requiring a supermajority vote of shareholders; and ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2012. Those elected and the final voting results are as follows:
1. Election of Directors:
 
Robert F. Cummings, Jr., Hansel E. Tookes II and Wendell P. Weeks continued as directors for terms expiring at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2013.
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
The following description is being filed in this Form 8-K for the purpose of being incorporated by reference into registration statements filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Corning Incorporated's Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 3,800,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.50 per share. Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote per share for all matters to be voted on by shareholders. While the Restated Certificate of Incorporation currently contains remnants of provisions dealing with a classification of the board of directors of the Company, the board of directors is no longer effectively classified. Holders of common stock may not cumulate their votes in the election of directors, and are entitled to share equally in the dividends that may be declared by the board of directors, but only after payment of dividends required to be paid, if any, on any outstanding shares of preferred stock. Holders of the Company's common stock are entitled to dividends when, as, and if declared by the Company's board of directors, subject to the restrictions imposed by the New York Business Corporation Law. The continued declaration of dividends by our board of directors is subject to our current and prospective earnings, financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors that the board of directors deems relevant.
Upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the holders of the common stock share ratably in the assets remaining after payments to creditors and provision for the preference of any preferred stock. There are no preemptive or other subscription rights, conversion rights or redemption or scheduled installment payment provisions relating to shares of common stock. All of the outstanding shares of common stock are fully paid and non-assessable.
Computershare Trust Company, N.A. is the transfer agent and registrar for our common stock. The common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "GLW".
Corning's By-Laws provide that holders of common stock may remove a director from office at any time prior to the expiration of his or her term only with cause and by vote of the holders of a majority of the common stock outstanding. Additionally, the By-Laws provide that premature vacancies on the board of directors may be filled only by a majority of the entire board. The By-Laws of Corning contain procedural requirements with respect to the nomination of directors by shareholders at an annual meeting that require, among other things, delivery of notice by nominating shareholders to the Company's Secretary not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days before the anniversary of the prior year's shareholders' meeting. The By-Laws do not provide that a special meeting of shareholders may be called by shareholders.
The Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and authorizes the board of directors to establish one or more series of preferred stock and to determine, with respect to any such series, the relative rights, preferences or limitations of such series. The authorized shares of preferred stock are available for issuance without further action by the Company's shareholders, unless such action is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange on which the Company's securities are listed.
The effect of the foregoing provisions may be to deter attempts either to obtain control of Corning or to acquire a substantial amount of its stock, even if a proposed acquisition transaction were at a significant premium over the then-prevailing market value of the common stock, or to deter attempts to remove the board of directors and management of Corning, even though some or a majority of the holders of common stock may believe these actions to be beneficial.
The Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that no director will be liable to Corning or its shareholders for a breach of duty as a director except as provided by the New York Business Corporation Law.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 1, 2012
 

Exhibit 3(i)1
April 27, 2012
WE, WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being respectively, the Chairman and Secretary of Corning Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated. It was incorporated under the name of Corning Glass Works.
SECOND: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (being the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation Forming the Corporation) was filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of New York on December 24, 1936.
THIRD: The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, is further amended as follows:
1. To delete the paragraphs formerly numbered 5(f) and 6 to eliminate supermajority voting requirements, which deletion was authorized by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders held on April 26, 2012.
2. To amend the numbering of the paragraphs of the Certificate of Incorporation in connection with the foregoing amendments.
FOURTH: To effect the foregoing amendments, the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, is hereby amended and restated to read as follows:
1. The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated.
2. The purposes for which the Corporation is to be formed are:
To make, manufacture, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with glass, glassware, refractory, ceramic, plastic, wood and metal products, chemicals and related products, electrical, electronic and other related products, machinery, tools, materials and other
articles and products, including those materials which are or may be necessary or useful for the manufacture of any of the products hereinbefore mentioned or in addition thereto; to conduct scientific and technological research; and to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and to sell, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with any and all interest in real and personal property of any and all kinds, tangible or intangible, including patent rights, inventions, secret processes and other similar property.
3. In the absence of actual fraud or bad faith, no contract or transaction between the Corporation and any other association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any of the directors or officers of this Corporation are interested in or are directors or officers of such other association or corporation, and any director or officer of this Corporation individually may be a party to or may be interested in any such contract or transaction of this Corporation and no such contract or transaction of this Corporation with any person or persons, firm, association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any director or officer of this Corporation is a party to or interested in such contract or transaction or in any way connected with such person or persons, firm, association or corporation, and each and every person who may become a director or officer of this Corporation is hereby relieved from any liability that might otherwise exist from thus contracting with the Corporation for the benefit of himself or any person, firm, association or corporation in which he may be in anywise interested unless it be shown that he acted in the transaction in bad faith.
4. (a) The total number of shares which the Corporation may henceforth have is 3,810,000,000, of which 10,000,000 shares are to have a par value of $100 each and 3,800,000,000 are to have a par value of $.50 each, which shares shall be classified as follows:
(i) 10,000,000 shares, of the par value of $100 each, are to be Series Preferred Stock; and
(ii) 3,800,000,000 shares, of the par value of $.50 each, are to be Common Stock.
The relative voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each class are as follows:
(b) The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have the number of shares and designation, and the shares of each such series to have such relative rights, preferences or limitations, as the Board of Directors, subject to the limitations prescribed by law or provided herein, may from time to time fix, before issuance, by delivering an appropriate certificate of amendment to the Department of State pursuant to the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, the fixing of the following:
(i) The number of shares to constitute the series and the distinctive designation thereof;
(ii) The dividend rate on the shares of the series; whether dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from what date or dates;
(iii) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be redeemable and, if redeemable, the terms upon which the shares of the series may be redeemed and the premium, if any, over and above the par value thereof and any dividends accrued thereon which the shares of the series shall be entitled to receive upon the redemption thereof;
 
(iv) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be subject to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such shares for retirement and, if such retirement or sinking fund be established, the annual amount thereof and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
(v) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be convertible into shares of any class or classes of stock of the Corporation, with or without par value, or of any other series of the same class and, if convertible, the conversion price or prices or the rate at which such conversion may be made and the method, if any, of adjusting the same;
(vi) The rights of the shares of the series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation;
(vii) The restrictions, if any, on the payment of dividends upon, and the making of the distributions to any class of stock ranking junior to the shares of the series, and the restrictions, if any, on the purchase or redemption of the shares of any such junior class;
(viii) Whether the series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights; and
(ix) Any other relative rights, preferences and limitations of the series.
(c) Holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, dividends at the rates fixed by the Board of Directors for the respective series, before any dividends shall be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, on any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock either as to dividends or assets, with respect to the same dividend period.
(d) Whenever, at any time, dividends on the then outstanding Preferred Stock as may be required by the terms of the certificate creating the series representing the shares outstanding shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment on the then outstanding Preferred Stock and after complying with all the provisions with respect to any retirement or sinking fund or funds for any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors may, subject to the provisions of any certificate creating any series of Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends on any other class or classes of stock, declare and pay dividends on the Common Stock, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
(e) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, after payment, if any is required, shall have been made in full to the Preferred Stock as provided in any certificate creating any series thereof, but not prior thereto, the Common Stock shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions, if any, of any such certificate, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
 
(f) No holder of Common Stock or any series of Preferred Stock shall, as such holder, have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to any stock of any class of the Corporation or to any obligations convertible into any such stock or to any right of subscription to, or to any warrant or option for, the purchase of any stock, other than such, if any, as the Board of Directors of the Corporation in its discretion may determine from time to time.
(g) The holders of the Common Stock shall have the right to vote on all questions to the exclusion of all other classes of stock, except as by law expressly provided or as otherwise expressly provided with respect to the holders of any other class or classes of stock.
5. (a) The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by a Board of Directors consisting of not less than nine nor more than twenty-four persons. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. As used in this Certificate of Incorporation, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total authorized number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding: (i) each director elected at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; (ii) each director elected at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; (iii) each director elected at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; and (iv) at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and each Annual Meeting of Stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such director is elected and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
(b) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of a director or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such director, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the entire Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
(c) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by this paragraph 5 unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
 
(d) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Certificate of Incorporation and subject to the other provisions of this paragraph 5, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the Corporation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the Corporation, and shall determine the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board actions.
6. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for damages for any breach of duty as a director, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Business Corporation Law as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any repeal or modification of this paragraph 6 by the shareholders of the Corporation shall not affect adversely any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
7. The office of the Corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York. The Secretary of State of the State of New York is designated as the agent of the Corporation upon whom process in any action or proceeding against it may be served, and the address within the State to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of process in any action or proceeding against the Corporation which may be served upon him is One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, New York, 14831, Attention of the Secretary. The Corporation designates Corporation Service Company as its registered agent upon whom process against the Corporation may be served, and the street address for the registered agent is: 80 State Street, Albany, NY 12207-2543.
FIFTH: The deletion of the paragraphs formerly numbered 5(f) and 6 was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors at a meeting duly called and held on April 26, 2012, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout. The requisite members of the Board of Directors having declared such amendment advisable, such amendment was thereafter authorized by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders held on April 26, 2012. To effect such amendments and the other amendments reflected herein, the amendment and restatement of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting thereof duly called and held on April 26, 2012 at which a quorum was present and acting throughout.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have signed this Certificate this 27
th
day of April, 2012.
 
WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being severally duly sworn, say, and each for himself or herself says, that the said Wendell P. Weeks is the Chairman and the said Denise A. Hauselt is the Secretary of Corning Incorporated, which is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York and is the corporation described in the foregoing Certificate; that they have read the said Certificate and know the contents thereof and that the same is true to their own knowledge.
 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 27
th
day of April, 2012.
/s/ Sherry L. Smith
Notary Public, State of New York
Qualified in Steuben County, No. 5009667
My Commission Expires 3/15/2015
 

Exhibit 3(i)2
April 30, 2010
WE, WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being respectively, the Chairman and Secretary of Corning Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated. It was incorporated under the name of Corning Glass Works.
SECOND: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (being the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation Forming the Corporation) was filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of New York on December 24, 1936.
THIRD: The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, is further amended as follows:
1. To delete paragraphs 4A. Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, 4B. Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, and 4C. Series C 7% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, relating to the shares of the Corporation's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and Series C 7% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, none of which shares of Preferred Stock is currently outstanding and none of which will be issued subject to the Certificate of Incorporation;
2. To amend the second paragraph of paragraph 5(a) and paragraph 5(b) to provide for the declassification of the Board of Directors, which amendment was authorized by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders held on April 29, 2010; and
3. To amend the numbering of the paragraphs of the Certificate of Incorporation in connection with the foregoing amendments.
FOURTH: To effect the foregoing amendments, the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, is hereby amended and restated to read as follows:
1. The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated.
2. The purposes for which the Corporation is to be formed are:
To make, manufacture, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with glass, glassware, refractory, ceramic, plastic, wood and metal products, chemicals and related products, electrical, electronic and other related products, machinery, tools, materials and other articles and products, including those materials which are or may be necessary or
 
useful for the manufacture of any of the products hereinbefore mentioned or in addition thereto; to conduct scientific and technological research; and to purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and to sell, dispose of or otherwise deal in and with any and all interest in real and personal property of any and all kinds, tangible or intangible, including patent rights, inventions, secret processes and other similar property.
3. In the absence of actual fraud or bad faith, no contract or transaction between the Corporation and any other association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any of the directors or officers of this Corporation are interested in or are directors or officers of such other association or corporation, and any director or officer of this Corporation individually may be a party to or may be interested in any such contract or transaction of this Corporation and no such contract or transaction of this Corporation with any person or persons, firm, association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any director or officer of this Corporation is a party to or interested in such contract or transaction or in any way connected with such person or persons, firm, association or corporation, and each and every person who may become a director or officer of this Corporation is hereby relieved from any liability that might otherwise exist from thus contracting with the Corporation for the benefit of himself or any person, firm, association or corporation in which he may be in anywise interested unless it be shown that he acted in the transaction in bad faith.
4. (a) The total number of shares which the Corporation may henceforth have is 3,810,000,000, of which 10,000,000 shares are to have a par value of $100 each and 3,800,000,000 are to have a par value of $.50 each, which shares shall be classified as follows:
(i) 10,000,000 shares, of the par value of $100 each, are to be Series Preferred Stock; and
(ii) 3,800,000,000 shares, of the par value of $.50 each, are to be Common Stock.
The relative voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each class are as follows:
(b) The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have the number of shares and designation, and the shares of each such series to have such relative rights, preferences or limitations, as the Board of Directors, subject to the limitations prescribed by law or provided herein, may from time to time fix, before issuance, by delivering an appropriate certificate of amendment to the Department of State pursuant to the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, the fixing of the following:
(i) The number of shares to constitute the series and the distinctive designation thereof;
(ii) The dividend rate on the shares of the series; whether dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from what date or dates;
 
(iii) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be redeemable and, if redeemable, the terms upon which the shares of the series may be redeemed and the premium, if any, over and above the par value thereof and any dividends accrued thereon which the shares of the series shall be entitled to receive upon the redemption thereof;
(iv) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be subject to the operation of a retirement or sinking fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such shares for retirement and, if such retirement or sinking fund be established, the annual amount thereof and the terms and provisions relative to the operation thereof;
(v) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be convertible into shares of any class or classes of stock of the Corporation, with or without par value, or of any other series of the same class and, if convertible, the conversion price or prices or the rate at which such conversion may be made and the method, if any, of adjusting the same;
(vi) The rights of the shares of the series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation;
(vii) The restrictions, if any, on the payment of dividends upon, and the making of the distributions to any class of stock ranking junior to the shares of the series, and the restrictions, if any, on the purchase or redemption of the shares of any such junior class;
(viii) Whether the series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights; and
(ix) Any other relative rights, preferences and limitations of the series.
(c) Holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, dividends at the rates fixed by the Board of Directors for the respective series, before any dividends shall be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, on any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock either as to dividends or assets, with respect to the same dividend period.
(d) Whenever, at any time, dividends on the then outstanding Preferred Stock as may be required by the terms of the certificate creating the series representing the shares outstanding shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment on the then outstanding Preferred Stock and after complying with all the provisions with respect to any retirement or sinking fund or funds for any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors may, subject to the provisions of any certificate creating any series of Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends on any other class or classes of stock, declare and pay dividends on the Common Stock, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
(e) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, after payment, if any is required, shall have been made in full to the Preferred Stock as provided in any certificate creating any series thereof, but not prior thereto, the Common Stock shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions, if any, of any such certificate, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
 
(f) No holder of Common Stock or any series of Preferred Stock shall, as such holder, have any preemptive or preferential right of subscription to any stock of any class of the Corporation or to any obligations convertible into any such stock or to any right of subscription to, or to any warrant or option for, the purchase of any stock, other than such, if any, as the Board of Directors of the Corporation in its discretion may determine from time to time.
(g) The holders of the Common Stock shall have the right to vote on all questions to the exclusion of all other classes of stock, except as by law expressly provided or as otherwise expressly provided with respect to the holders of any other class or classes of stock.
5. (a) The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by a Board of Directors consisting of not less than nine nor more than twenty-four persons. The exact number of directors within the minimum and maximum limitations specified in the preceding sentence shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. As used in this Certificate of Incorporation, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total authorized number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding: (i) each director elected at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; (ii) each director elected at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; (iii) each director elected at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; and (iv) at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and each Annual Meeting of Stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such director is elected and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
(b) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of a director or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such director, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the entire Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
(c) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by this paragraph 5 unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
 
(d) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Certificate of Incorporation and subject to the other provisions of this paragraph 5, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the Corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the Corporation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the Corporation, and shall determine the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board actions.
(f) The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of this paragraph 5 including this paragraph (f); , , that this paragraph (f) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal, or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.
provided
however
6. (a) .
Certain Definitions
For the purposes of this paragraph 6:
(i) "Business Combination" shall mean:
(A) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary with (1) an Interested Stockholder or (2) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder; or
(B) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; or
 
(C) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; or
(D) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or an Affiliate or Associate of an Interested Stockholder; or
(E) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any Subsidiary or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Stockholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the percentage of the outstanding shares of (1) any class of equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or (2) any class of securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary convertible into equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, represented by securities of such class which are directly or indirectly owned by an Interested Stockholder and all of its Affiliates and Associates; or
(F) any agreement, contract or other arrangement providing for any one or more of the actions specified in clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph 6(a)(i).
(ii) "" or "" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), as in effect on January 1, 1985.
Affiliate
Associate
Exchange Act
(iii) "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on January 1, 1985.
Beneficial Owner
(iv) "" shall mean (A) any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation who (1) is neither the Interested Stockholder involved in the Business Combination as to which a vote of Continuing Directors is provided hereunder, nor an Affiliate, Associate, employee, agent or nominee of such Interested Stockholder, or the relative of any of the foregoing, and (2) was a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation prior to the time that such Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, (B) any successor of a Continuing Director described in clause (A) who is recommended or elected to succeed a Continuing Director by the affirmative vote of a majority of Continuing Directors then on the Board of Directors of the Corporation, and (C) any person who is elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the 1985 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and any successor thereto who is recommended or elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Continuing Director
 
(v) "" shall mean: (A) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for the New York Stock ExchangeListed Stocks, or, if such stock is not reported on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., Automated Quotations System or any similar inter-dealer quotation system then in use, or if no such quotation is available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors in good faith; and (B) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by a majority of the Continuing Directors in good faith.
Fair Market Value
(vi) "" shall mean any Person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
Interested Stockholder
(A) is, or was at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, the Beneficial Owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation; or
(B) is an assignee of, or has otherwise succeeded to, any shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation of which an Interested Stockholder was the Beneficial Owner at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction, or series of transactions, not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
For the purpose of determining whether a Person is an Interested Stockholder, the outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation shall include unissued shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation of which the Interested Stockholder is the Beneficial Owner but shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, to any Person who is not the Interested Stockholder.
(vii) A "" shall mean any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity, as well as any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section 14(d) (2) of the Exchange Act.
Person
(viii) "" shall mean any corporation of which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, (i) a majority of the outstanding shares of equity securities of such corporation, or (ii) shares having a majority of the voting power represented by all of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of such corporation. For the purpose of determining whether a corporation is a Subsidiary, the outstanding Voting Stock and shares of equity securities thereof shall include unissued shares of which the Corporation is the Beneficial Owner but, except for the purposes of paragraph 6(a)(vi), shall not include any other
Subsidiary
 
shares which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, to any Person who is not the Corporation.
(ix) "" shall mean outstanding shares of capital stock of the relevant corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Voting Stock
(b) .
Higher Vote for Business Combinations
In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or by this Certificate of Incorporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in paragraph 6(c), any Business Combination shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation, voting together as a single class, it being understood that, for purposes of this paragraph 6, each share of the Voting Stock of the Corporation shall have the number of votes granted to it pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Certificate of Incorporation. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
(c) .
When Higher Vote is Not Required
The provisions paragraph 6(b) shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote, if any, of the stockholders as is required by law and any other provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, if the conditions specified in either of the following paragraphs (i) and (ii) are met:
(i) Approval by Continuing Directors. The Business Combination shall have been approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, even if the Continuing Directors do not constitute a quorum of the entire Board of Directors.
(ii) Form of Consideration, Price and Procedure Requirements. All of the following conditions shall have been met:
(A) With respect to each share of each class of Voting Stock of the Corporation (including Common Stock), the holder thereof shall be entitled to receive on or before the date of the consummation of the Business Combination (the ""), consideration, in the form specified in paragraph 6(c)(ii) hereof, with an aggregate Fair Market Value as of the Consummation Date at least equal to the highest of the following:
Consummation Date
(1) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder to which the Business Combination relates, or by any Affiliate or Associate of such Interested Stockholder, for any shares of such class of Voting Stock acquired by it (a) within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposal of the
 
Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or (b) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher;
(2) the Fair Market Value per share of such class of Voting Stock of the Corporation on the Announcement Date; and
(3) the highest preferential amount per share, if any, to which the holders of shares of such class of Voting Stock of the Corporation are entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation.
(B) The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation (including Common Stock) as described in paragraph 6(c)(ii) hereof shall be in cash or if the consideration previously paid by or on behalf of the Interested Stockholder in connection with its acquisition of beneficial ownership of shares of such class of Voting Stock consisted in whole or in part of consideration other than cash, then in the same form as such consideration. If such payment for shares of any class of Voting Stock of the Corporation has been made with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration for such class of Voting Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the beneficial ownership of the largest number of shares of such class of Voting Stock previously acquired by the Interested Stockholder.
(C) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder and prior to the Consummation Date of such Business Combination: (1) except as approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) on the outstanding preferred stock of the Corporation, if any; (2) there shall have been (a) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock of the Corporation (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common Stock) except as approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors, and (b) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split), recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, unless the failure so to increase such annual rate is approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Continuing Directors; and (3) such Interested Stockholder shall not have become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation except as part of the transaction which results in such an Interested Stockholder becoming an Interested Stockholder.
(D) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder, such Interested Stockholder shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder of the Corporation), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation.
 
(E) A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the General Rules and Regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to the stockholders of the Corporation at least 45 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions thereof).
(d) .
Powers of Continuing Directors
A majority of the Continuing Directors shall have the power and duty to determine, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this paragraph 6, including, without limitation, (i) whether a person is an Interested Stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by any person, (iii) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (iv) whether the requirements of paragraph 6(c)(ii) have been met with respect to any Business Combination, and (v) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $20,000,000 or more; and the good faith determination of a majority of the Continuing Directors on such matters shall be conclusive and binding for all the purposes of this paragraph 6.
(e) .
No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations
(i) Nothing contained in this paragraph 6 shall be construed to relieve the members of the Board of Directors or an Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
(ii) The fact that any Business Combination complies with the provisions of paragraph 6(c) shall not be construed to impose any fiduciary duty, obligation or responsibility on the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, to approve such Business Combination or recommend its adoption or approval to the stockholders of the Corporation, nor shall such compliance limit, prohibit or otherwise restrict in any manner the Board of Directors, or any member thereof, with respect to evaluations of or actions and responses taken with respect to such Business Combination.
(f) .
Amendment or Repeal
The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding Voting Stock of the Corporation shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of this paragraph 6; , , that this paragraph 6(f) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors and a majority of the Continuing Directors.
provided
however
 
7. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for damages for any breach of duty as a director, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Business Corporation Law as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any repeal or modification of this paragraph 7 by the stockholders of the Corporation shall not affect adversely any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
8. The office of the Corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York. The Secretary of State of the State of New York is designated as the agent of the Corporation upon whom process in any action or proceeding against it may be served, and the address within the State to which the Secretary of State shall mail a copy of process in any action or proceeding against the Corporation which may be served upon him is One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, New York, 14831, Attention of the Secretary.
FIFTH: The amendment of the second paragraph of paragraph 5(a) and paragraph 5(b) to provide for the declassification of the Board of Directors was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors at a meeting duly called and held on February 3, 2010, at which a quorum was present and acting throughout, and, thereafter, such amendment was authorized by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock entitled to vote thereon at a meeting of the Corporation's shareholders held on April 29, 2010. To effect such amendments and the other amendments reflected herein, the amendment and restatement of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation at a meeting thereof duly called and held on April 29, 2010 at which a quorum was present and acting throughout.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have signed this Certificate this 30
th
day of April, 2010.
 
 
WENDELL P. WEEKS and DENISE A. HAUSELT, being severally duly sworn, say, and each for himself or herself says, that the said Wendell P. Weeks is the Chairman and the said Denise A. Hauselt is the Secretary of Corning Incorporated, which is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of New York and is the corporation described in the foregoing Certificate; that they have read the said Certificate and know the contents thereof and that the same is true to their own knowledge.
 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 30
th
day of April, 2010.
 
 

Exhibit 3(ii)1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1.1 . The principal office and place of business of the corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York.
Principal Office
Section 1.2 . The Board of Directors may establish and discontinue, from time to time, other offices and places of business as it deems advisable and proper for the conduct of the company's business.
Other Offices
Section 2.1 . All meetings of shareholders of the corporation may be held at such place, within or without the State of New York, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.2 . The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and consideration of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on the last Thursday in April of each year, or on such other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of shareholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such annual meeting of shareholders.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.3 . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon order of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or a majority of the directors.
Special Meetings
 
Section 2.4 . Notice of each annual or special meeting of the shareholders shall be served either personally or by mail or electronically upon each shareholder entitled to vote thereat. If served by mail, the notice shall be sent postpaid addressed to the shareholder at such shareholder's address as it appears on the stock record of the corporation. If served electronically, the notice shall be sent to the e-mail or electronic address as supplied by the shareholder to the Secretary. Service of such notice shall be made not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days before the meeting date.
Notice of Meetings
Section 2.5 . Notice of meeting need not be given to any shareholder who submits a waiver of notice, in person or by proxy, either before or after the meeting. Waiver of notice may be written or electronic. The attendance of any shareholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by such shareholder.
Waiver of Notice
Section 2.6 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in the Chairman's absence and in the order named, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President present at the meeting shall call to order and preside at all meetings of shareholders, and the Secretary of the corporation, or in the Secretary's absence, the senior of the Assistant Secretaries (determined by the order of their election) present at the meeting shall act as secretary.
Chairman and Secretary of Meeting
Section 2.7 . Unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, every shareholder of record shall be entitled at every meeting of the corporation to one vote for every share of stock standing in such shareholder's name on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors may prescribe a period, not exceeding sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of the shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of a shareholder may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting, during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made; or in lieu of prohibiting the transfer of stock may fix a time not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of shareholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting as the time as of which shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such a meeting or whose consent or dissent is required or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be determined, and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time and no others shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or to express their consent or dissent as the case may be.
Shareholders Entitled to Vote
Section 2.8 . Holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall constitute a quorum at all meetings, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or by these By-Laws. If, however, such majority, represented either in person or by proxy, is not present at any meeting, the shareholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without other notice than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite amount of voting stock shall be present; provided, however, that any shareholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present,
Quorum and Adjournment
 
may be adjourned from time to time by the Chairman of the meeting. When the requisite amount of voting stock is present at an adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Section 2.9 . At each meeting of shareholders, every shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting shall have the right to vote in person or by proxy duly appointed by an appropriate instrument, such as a writing, a telegram, a cablegram or other means of electronic transmission, in each case subscribed by or on behalf of such shareholder, and dated not more than eleven months prior to the meeting, unless such instrument provides for a longer period. The vote for directors shall be by ballot. In a vote by ballot each ballot shall state the number of shares voted and the name of the shareholder or proxy voting. Except as otherwise provided by law, these By-Laws or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, all corporate actions to be taken by a vote of the shareholders shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such matter at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.
Vote of Shareholders
Section 3.1 .
Election and Term
(a) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding: (i) each director elected at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders; (ii) each director elected at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders; (iii) each director elected at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders; and (iv) at the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders and each annual meeting of shareholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such director is elected and until such director's successor is elected and qualified, or until such director shall have resigned as hereinafter provided in Section 3.12.
(b) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or a special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by Sections 3.1(a), 3.5 and 3.6 of this Article III unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
(c) At each meeting of the shareholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, the vote required for election of a director shall, except in a contested election, be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such nominee. In a contested election, a nominee receiving a plurality of the votes cast at such election shall be elected. An election shall be considered to be contested if, as of the record date for such meeting, there are more nominees for election than positions on the Board of Directors to be filled by election at the meeting.
 
Section 3.2 .
Nominations and Shareholder Business
(a) .
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (i) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by any shareholder of the corporation who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 3.2, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 3.2, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (A) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (B) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner and any other direct or indirect pecuniary or economic interest in any shares of the corporation of such shareholder and such beneficial owner, including, without limitation, any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or profit sharing arrangement.
provided
however
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 3.2 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 3.2 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new position created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
 
(b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 3.2, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. Nominations by shareholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of shareholders if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 3.2 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.
Special Meetings of Shareholders
(c) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. The Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 3.2, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of this Section 3.2, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by Dow Jones Newswires, The Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.2, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 3.2. Nothing in this Section 3.2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any Series Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specific circumstances.
Section 3.3 . Directors need not be shareholders. Acceptance of the office may be expressed orally or in writing, except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws.
Qualification
Section 3.4 . The number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the corporation shall be not less than nine nor more than twenty-four, the exact number within such minimum and maximum limitations to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors
Number
 
pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. As used in these By-Laws, the terms "entire Board of Directors" and "entire Board" mean the total authorized number of directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Section 3.5 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of a director or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such director, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the entire Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
Vacancies
Section 3.6 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the shareholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause.
Removal of Directors
Section 3.7 . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, and these By-Laws and subject to the other provisions of Sections 3.1(a) and (b), 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 of this Article III, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the corporation and fix their salaries and other compensation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the corporation, may grant general or limited authority to its Chairman, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President and the Group Presidents and other officers and agents of the corporation to make, execute and deliver contracts and other instruments and documents in the name and on behalf of the corporation and under its seal without specific authority in each case, and shall determine to the extent not inconsistent with these By-Laws the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board action. In addition, the Board may exercise all of the powers of the corporation and do all lawful acts and things which are not reserved to the shareholders by statute, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or the By-Laws.
General Powers
Section 3.8 . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the entire Board, appoint an Executive Committee, to consist of the chief executive officer of the corporation and at least two other Directors, which shall be empowered to perform such functions as may be delegated to it by the Board. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall act as chairman of the Executive Committee unless another member shall have been appointed chairman by the Board of Directors.
Executive Committee
 
Section 3.9 . The Board of Directors, not later than April 30 in each year, shall by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the entire Board appoint an Audit Committee to consist of three or more Directors (none of whom shall be an officer of the corporation or of any of its subsidiary companies) and may appoint one of the members of such Committee to be its Chairman. The Committee shall appoint, annually, a firm of certified public accountants to audit the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary companies and to report to the Committee. The Committee shall confer with such accountants and shall determine the scope of the audits of the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary companies and shall bring to the attention of the Board of Directors those items relating to the audits or the corporation's accounting practices which the Committee and the auditors believe to merit Board review. As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year the Committee shall transmit to the Board of Directors the consolidated balance sheet of the corporation and its subsidiary companies as at the end of each such fiscal year and related statements of consolidated income and surplus for such year, with the certificate of the accountants with respect thereto; and such financial statements and certificate shall be incorporated in the Annual Report to the shareholders of the corporation. The Audit Committee shall establish the rules for the conduct of its meetings; shall keep minutes of its acts and proceedings, which in each instance shall be reported at the next meeting of the Board of Directors.
Audit Committee
Section 3.10 . The Board of Directors may meet and organize immediately after and at the place where the annual meeting of shareholders is held, without notice of such meeting, provided a majority of the entire Board shall be present. Regular meetings of the Board may be held without notice at such time and place as from time to time may be determined by the Board. Special meetings of the Board or of any Committee thereof may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary, on the written request of any two directors. Notice of any special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be mailed to such director, or such Committee member, including alternates as the case may be, addressed to such director, or such Committee member, at such director's, or such Committee member's, residence or usual place of business, not later than the second day before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such director, or such Committee member, at such place by rapifax, by telegraph, or by other means such as electronic advice or be delivered personally, or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Notice of any meeting of the Board or of any Committee need not be given, however, to any director, if waived by such director in writing, either before or after such meeting be held, or if such director shall be present at the meeting; and any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members shall be present thereat. A majority of the directors in office at the time of any regular or special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be present in person at such meeting in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any one or more directors or Committee members may participate in any meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment permitting all persons participating in such meeting to hear each other at the same time, participation by such means to constitute presence in person at such meeting. Except as otherwise required by statute or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
Meetings of the Board; Quorum and Manner of Acting
 
Corporation, as amended, or by the By-Laws, the act of a majority of the directors or Committee members present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors or Committee members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. Action by the Board or any Committee thereof may be taken without a meeting provided that all members of the Board or Committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing such action, such resolution and written consent thereto by the directors or Committee members to be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or Committee.
Section 3.11 . In consideration of a director serving in such capacity, each director of the corporation, other than directors who are officers of the corporation or any of its subsidiary companies, shall be entitled to receive an annual fee in such amount and payable in such installments, as the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the entire Board, may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors shall also have authority to determine, from time to time, the amount of compensation which shall be paid to its members for attendance at meetings of any committee of the Board as well as to any director rendering special services to the corporation.
Directors' Fees
Section 3.12 .
Resignations
(a) Any director of the corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. Subject to Section 3.12(b), any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein, then it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt, and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
(b) .
Majority Voting for Directors
(1) Any incumbent nominee for director who does not receive the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in any uncontested election shall promptly following certification of the election results tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors.
(2) The Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, shall decide whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in making its recommendation, and the Board of Directors in making its decision as to whether to accept or reject such recommendation, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers relevant.
(3) Any incumbent nominee for director who tenders his or her resignation in accordance with the resignation policy shall recuse himself or herself from the deliberations, recommendation or decision, as applicable, of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors regarding whether to accept such resignation. However, if a majority of the members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or Board of Directors, as applicable, are required to tender resignations in accordance with the director resignation policy, then the independent directors who are not required to tender resignations shall appoint a committee from amongst themselves to consider the resignations and, in the event there are fewer than three such independent directors, the entire Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or Board of Directors, as applicable, may participate in the deliberations, recommendation or decision, as applicable.
 
(4) Within 90 days of the certification of the election results, the Board of Directors shall decide whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation. The Board shall promptly disclose its decision in a press release or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such press release or filing shall include, if applicable, an explanation of the Board of Directors' reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation.
Section 4.1 . The elected officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors (who shall be a director), a Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Vice Chairmen, a President or one or more Group Presidents, a Controller, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may elect or appoint an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Honorary Vice Presidents, and corresponding Officers Emeriti: and either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may elect or appoint one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, one or more Assistant Controllers, and such other assistant officers and agents as, from time to time, may appear to be necessary or advisable in the conduct of the affairs of the corporation. The Board of Directors may designate an officer as the principal or chief executive officer of the corporation who, under the direction of the Board of Directors, shall have the general management, direction and superintendence of the business and affairs of the corporation. The Board of Directors may also designate an officer (or two or more officers acting together) as the principal operating officer of the corporation with responsibility for the business, property and affairs of the corporation. Either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may designate one or more officers or assistant officers as the principal financial officer of the corporation or the principal accounting officer of the corporation. The same person may be elected or appointed to two or more offices except that no person shall simultaneously hold the offices of President or Group President and Secretary. So far as practicable, all elected officers shall be elected at the organization meeting of the Board, in each year, and shall hold office until the organization meeting of the Board in the next subsequent year and until their respective successors are chosen; but any officer, elected or appointed, may be removed at any time, either for or without cause, by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any meeting. All officers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Board. If any vacancy occurs in any office, the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, as provided above, may elect or appoint a successor to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the term.
Officers
Section 4.2 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Executive Committee in the absence of a chairman of such Committee appointed by the Board. The Chairman shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
Section 4.3 . The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall act in a general consultative and advisory capacity to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman of the Executive Committee by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Executive Committee
Section 4.4 . The Vice Chairmen shall perform, in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Executive Committee or when so directed by either, the duties of such officer. They shall have such further powers and duties as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Vice Chairmen
Section 4.5 . The President, under the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, shall have superintendence of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation. The President shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors. In the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Vice Chairmen, the President shall perform the duties of those officers.
President
Section 4.6 . A Group President shall, under the direction of the chief operating officer of the corporation, or if no one has been so designated, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, have superintendence of such segments of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation and such further powers and duties as may be given or assigned to a Group President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Group President
Section 4.7 . The Executive Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President or a Group President.
Executive Vice Presidents
Section 4.8 . The Senior Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen or the President or a Group President. From time to time one of the Senior Vice Presidents may be designated as the Senior Vice President for Finance. The Senior Vice President for Finance may hold any other office in the corporation.
Senior Vice Presidents
Section 4.9 . The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President or a Group President, or an Executive Vice President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10 . The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the corporate funds and securities. The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the corporation in the manner ordered by the Board. The
Treasurer
 
Treasurer shall upon request render an account of all the Treasurer's transactions as Treasurer to the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Treasurer's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or such other officers, directors or agents as may be designated by the Board of Directors shall endorse checks, notes or drafts payable to the order of the corporation and sign and countersign checks, drafts and orders for the payment or withdrawal of moneys or securities on deposit in the corporate accounts in such manner as the Board may direct. The Treasurer shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Treasurer by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, or the President.
Section 4.11 . The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee and of the shareholders. The Secretary shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the corporation. The Secretary shall affix the seal of the corporation to all certificates of stock, except in cases where the transfer agent of the corporation is authorized to affix the seal. The Secretary shall have charge of the stock certificate books, other than those in the hands of the transfer agent, and such other books and papers as the Board may direct. The Secretary shall attend to such correspondence as may be assigned to the Secretary, and perform all other duties incidental to the Secretary's office. The Secretary shall keep a stock record containing the names, alphabetically arranged, of all persons who are shareholders of the corporation, showing their places of residence, the number of shares of stock held by them respectively, and the time when they became owners. The Secretary shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Secretary by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12 . The General Counsel shall be the legal adviser of the corporation. The General Counsel may hold any other office in the corporation.
General Counsel
Section 4.13 . The Controller shall be responsible for and have active control of all matters pertaining to the accounts of the corporation. The Controller shall audit all payrolls and vouchers and shall direct the manner of certifying the same; shall supervise the manner of keeping all vouchers for payments and all other documents relating to such payments; shall receive, audit and consolidate all operating and financial statements of the corporation and its subsidiaries; and shall have the care, custody and supervision of the books of account of the corporation. The Controller shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Controller's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Controller shall, upon request, render an account of the financial condition of the corporation to the Board of Directors. The Controller shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Controller by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
Controller
Section 4.14 . Assistant Secretaries shall perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence of the Secretary, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
 
Section 4.15 . Assistant Treasurers shall perform the duties of the Treasurer in the absence of the Treasurer, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers
Section 4.16 . Assistant Controllers shall perform the duties of the Controller in the absence of the Controller, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or the Controller.
Assistant Controllers
Section 4.17 . No individual elected or appointed to an Honorary Office or an Emeritus Office pursuant to this Article IV shall have as a result of such election or appointment any rights, duties or responsibilities with respect to the business or affairs of this corporation as determined by law or the By-Laws of this corporation.
Emeriti and Honorary Officers
Section 5.1 . All payments for stock of the corporation shall be received by the Treasurer. Failure to pay an installment upon a stock subscription when required to be paid by the Board of Directors shall work a forfeiture of the shares of stock in arrears, pursuant to Section 503 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York.
Payments
Section 5.2 . The shares of stock of the corporation may be represented by certificates or uncertificated, as provided by New York law. To the extent shares are represented by a certificate, the certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and may be sealed with the seal of the corporation or a facsimile thereof. Where any such certificate is manually countersigned by either a transfer agent or a registrar (other than the corporation itself or its employee) any other signature on such certificate may be a facsimile, engraved, stamped or printed. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate was issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if that individual were such officer at the date of issue.
Certificates for Stock; Uncertificated Shares
Shares of the corporation's stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holder's name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, to the extent required by applicable law, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of that class of stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates and the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
Section 5.3 . The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, appoint responsible banks or trust companies or other qualified institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York and in such other cities or states as the Board may deem advisable, to act
Transfer Agents and Registrars
 
as transfer agents or registrars of the stock of the corporation; and, upon such appointments being made, no stock certificates shall be valid until countersigned by one of such transfer agents and registered by one of such registrars and no issuance or transfer of any uncertificated shares shall be valid until book-entry thereof shall have been made on the records of such transfer agents or registrars.
Section 5.4 . Transfers of stock represented by certificates shall be made on the books of the corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by an attorney-in-fact lawfully constituted in writing and upon surrender and cancellation of a certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of the same class of stock, with duly executed assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, and with such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Transfers of uncertificated shares shall by made on the books of the corporation only by the record holder thereof, or by an attorney-in-fact, upon presentation of proper evidence of authority to transfer in accordance with customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form. Written notice of the transfer shall be given by the corporation to the extent required by applicable law.
Transfers
Section 5.5 . The Board of Directors may fix a time, not exceeding sixty days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend, or the making of any distribution or for the delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of interest arising out of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, as a record time for the determination of the shareholders entitled to receive any such dividend, distribution, rights or interest. The Board of Directors at its option, in lieu of so fixing a record time, may prescribe a period not exceeding sixty days prior to the date for such payment, distribution or delivery during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made.
Determination of Shareholders of Record for Certain Purposes
Section 5.6 . The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any stock certificate and any holder of record of uncertificated shares as the holder in fact and owner of the shares represented thereby and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable claim to or interest in such stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof save as expressly provided by the laws of New York.
Shareholders of Record Recognized
Section 5.7 . In case any certificate of stock shall be lost or destroyed, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may authorize the issue of a substitute certificate or, at the request of the holder, substitute stock in uncertificated form, in place of the certificate so lost or destroyed, and may cause any substitute certificate to be countersigned by the appropriate transfer agent and such certificate or uncertificated stock shall be registered by the appropriate registrar; provided, that, in each such case, the lost or destroyed certificate shall be canceled on the books of the corporation and the applicant for a substitute certificate shall furnish to the corporation and to such of its transfer agents and registrars as may require the same, evidence to their satisfaction, in their discretion, of the loss or destruction of such certificate and of the ownership thereof and also such security and indemnity as may by them be required.
Lost Certificate
Section 5.8 . The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, and not inconsistent with these By-Laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the corporation.
Regulations
 
Section 6.1 . At every meeting of shareholders the vote shall be conducted by one or more inspectors of election elected at the last annual meeting of shareholders or, if not so elected, appointed for that purpose by the Board of Directors or, if not so elected or appointed, elected by a per capita vote of the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy; and all questions respecting the qualification of voters, the validity of the proxies and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided by such inspectors who, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be duly sworn faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting with strict impartiality, and according to the best of their ability. If any inspector elected or appointed to act at any meeting shall be absent or refuse to act, or if such inspector's office shall become vacant, the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy shall, by a per capita vote, appoint another inspector to act in such inspector's place.
Inspectors of Election
Section 7.1 . The seal of the corporation shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the corporation followed by the words "Corning, NY", the year of its incorporation, and in the center of the circle the words "Founded 1851".
Seal
Section 7.2 . The seal of the corporation shall be in the custody of the Secretary, who shall have power to affix it to the proper corporate instruments and documents, and who shall attest it. In the Secretary's absence it may be affixed and attested by an Assistant Secretary or affixed and attested by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. The transfer agent of the stock of the corporation may have a facsimile thereof and affix the same to stock certificates issued by it.
Affixing and Attesting
Section 8.1 . All checks, drafts, notes and other negotiable instruments of the corporation shall be signed, countersigned and endorsed by such directors, officers and agents as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time.
Signatures to Negotiable Paper
Section 8.2 . In the absence of any officer, or for any other reason, the Board of Directors may delegate the powers or duties of an officer to another officer or director.
Delegation of Duties
Section 8.3 . Dividends upon the shares of the capital stock of the corporation may be declared and paid out of the net assets of the corporation in excess of its capital, as often and at such times as the Board of Directors may determine, subject to the limitations set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended.
Dividends
Section 8.4 . (a) To the full extent authorized or permitted by law, the corporation shall indemnify any person made, or threatened to be made, a
Indemnification of Directors and Officers
 
party to any action or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, including an action by or in the right of this corporation or any corporation of any type or kind, domestic or foreign, or any joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, partnership or other enterprise, which any director or officer of the corporation served in any capacity at the request of the corporation, by reason of the fact that such person, such person's testator or intestate, is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the corporation, or is serving or served or agreed to serve in any capacity such other corporation, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, partnership or other enterprise, and such person is serving or served or agreed to serve at the request of the corporation. Without limitation of the foregoing, such indemnification shall include indemnification against all judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement, taxes, penalties and reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees and costs of investigation or defense reasonably incurred by any such person in connection with any such action or proceeding or any appeal therein, and which expenses have not been recouped by such person in any other manner.
(b) . Upon the request of any person entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII, the corporation shall pay promptly to such person all expenses reasonably incurred by such person in connection with an action or proceeding with respect to which such person is, in the absence of a final adjudication adverse to such person, entitled to indemnification hereunder; that such payment shall be subject to the receipt by the corporation of that person's undertaking to repay the portion of such expenses to which it is finally determined that such person is not entitled; and that no such payment shall be made if a majority of disinterested directors of the corporation, such majority constitutes a quorum of the Board, or if there is not a quorum of disinterested directors, independent legal counsel not a party to such action or proceeding and not regular counsel to the corporation, determines in good faith that it is likely that such person will be found not to be entitled to such indemnification and will not in that event fulfill such person's undertaking to repay such advances. A person entitled to indemnification shall cooperate in good faith with any request by the corporation that common counsel be utilized by parties to an action or proceeding who are similarly situated unless to do so would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between or among such parties.
Advancement of Expenses
provided
provided further
provided
(c) . Section 8.4 of this Article VIII shall be deemed to constitute a contract between the corporation and a person entitled to indemnification and may not, without the consent of such person, be amended to effect adversely such person with respect to any event, act or omission occurring or allegedly occurring prior to the end of the term of office such person is serving when such amendment is adopted. The corporation is authorized to enter into agreements with any of its directors or officers extending rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses to such person to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, but the failure to enter into any such agreement shall not affect or limit the rights of such person pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII, it being expressly recognized that all directors and officers of the corporation, by serving as such after the adoption hereof, are acting in reliance hereon and the corporation is estopped to contend otherwise.
Contractual Article
(d) . The corporation may, but need not, maintain insurance at its expense insuring persons entitled to indemnification under Section 8.4 of this Article VIII against liabilities whether or not such liabilities are indemnifiable pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII.
Insurance
 
(e) . The indemnification provided by Section 8.4 of this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a director or officer of the corporation may be entitled.
Non-exclusivity
(f) . If and to the extent that any provision of Section 8.4 of this Article VIII is inconsistent with Article 7 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, such provision shall be deemed to have been amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such Article 7.
Amendment to Conform to Business Corporation Law
Section 8.5 . Except as otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President, any Group President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any other Vice President shall sign and execute all contracts, instruments and documents in the name of the corporation.
Signatures to Contracts
Section 9.1 .
Amendments
These By-Laws may be altered or repealed, in any respect, and new By-Laws, not inconsistent with any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or any provision of law, may be adopted, either by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority in number of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, given at an annual meeting, or at any special meeting the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof, or by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, given at any meeting thereof, the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof.
Section 9.2 . All prior By-Laws of the Company are hereby repealed.
Repeal of Old By-Laws
 

Exhibit 3(ii)2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1.1 . The principal office and place of business of the corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York.
Principal Office
Section 1.2 . The Board of Directors may establish and discontinue, from time to time, other offices and places of business as it deems advisable and proper for the conduct of the company's business.
Other Offices
Section 2.1 . All meetings of shareholders of the corporation may be held at such place, within or without the State of New York, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.2 . The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and consideration of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on the last Thursday in April of each year, or on such other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of shareholders may be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such annual meeting of shareholders.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.3 . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary upon order of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or a majority of the directors.
Special Meetings
 
Section 2.4 . Notice of each annual or special meeting of the shareholders shall be served either personally or by mail or electronically upon each shareholder entitled to vote thereat. If served by mail, the notice shall be sent postpaid addressed to the shareholder at such shareholder's address as it appears on the stock record of the corporation. If served electronically, the notice shall be sent to the e-mail or electronic address as supplied by the shareholder to the Secretary. Service of such notice shall be made not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days before the meeting date.
Notice of Meetings
Section 2.5 . Notice of meeting need not be given to any shareholder who submits a waiver of notice, in person or by proxy, either before or after the meeting. Waiver of notice may be written or electronic. The attendance of any shareholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by such shareholder.
Waiver of Notice
Section 2.6 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in the Chairman's absence and in the order named, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President present at the meeting shall call to order and preside at all meetings of shareholders, and the Secretary of the corporation, or in the Secretary's absence, the senior of the Assistant Secretaries (determined by the order of their election) present at the meeting shall act as secretary.
Chairman and Secretary of Meeting
Section 2.7 . Unless otherwise provided in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, every shareholder of record shall be entitled at every meeting of the corporation to one vote for every share of stock standing in such shareholder's name on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors may prescribe a period, not exceeding sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of the shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of a shareholder may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting, during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made; or in lieu of prohibiting the transfer of stock may fix a time not fewer than ten nor more than sixty days prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of shareholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting as the time as of which shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such a meeting or whose consent or dissent is required or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be determined, and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time and no others shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or to express their consent or dissent as the case may be.
Shareholders Entitled to Vote
Section 2.8 . Holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall constitute a quorum at all meetings, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or by these By-Laws. If, however, such majority, represented either in person or by proxy, is not present at any meeting, the shareholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without other notice than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite amount of voting stock shall be present; provided, however, that any shareholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present,
Quorum and Adjournment
 
may be adjourned from time to time by the Chairman of the meeting. When the requisite amount of voting stock is present at an adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Section 2.9 . At each meeting of shareholders, every shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting shall have the right to vote in person or by proxy duly appointed by an appropriate instrument, such as a writing, a telegram, a cablegram or other means of electronic transmission, in each case subscribed by or on behalf of such shareholder, and dated not more than eleven months prior to the meeting, unless such instrument provides for a longer period. The vote for directors shall be by ballot. In a vote by ballot each ballot shall state the number of shares voted and the name of the shareholder or proxy voting. Except as otherwise provided by law, these By-Laws or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, all corporate actions to be taken by a vote of the shareholders shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such matter at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon.
Vote of Shareholders
Section 3.1 .
Election and Term
(a) Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding: (i) each director elected at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders; (ii) each director elected at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders; (iii) each director elected at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders shall be elected to hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders; and (iv) at the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders and each annual meeting of shareholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders. Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such director is elected and until such director's successor is elected and qualified, or until such director shall have resigned as hereinafter provided in Section 3.12.
(b) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by the corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or a special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by Sections 3.1(a), 3.5 and 3.6 of this Article III unless expressly otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation of such series.
(c) At each meeting of the shareholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, the vote required for election of a director shall, except in a contested election, be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such nominee. In a contested election, a nominee receiving a plurality of the votes cast at such election shall be elected. An election shall be considered to be contested if, as of the record date for such meeting, there are more nominees for election than positions on the Board of Directors to be filled by election at the meeting.
 
Section 3.2 .
Nominations and Shareholder Business
(a) .
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the shareholders may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders (i) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by any shareholder of the corporation who was a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 3.2, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 3.2, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described above. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such shareholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (A) the name and address of such shareholder, as they appear on the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (B) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such shareholder and such beneficial owner and any other direct or indirect pecuniary or economic interest in any shares of the corporation of such shareholder and such beneficial owner, including, without limitation, any derivative instrument, swap, option, warrant, short interest, hedge or profit sharing arrangement.
provided
however
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 3.2 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a shareholder's notice required by this Section 3.2 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new position created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.
 
(b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 3.2, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. Nominations by shareholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of shareholders if the shareholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 3.2 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.
Special Meetings of Shareholders
(c) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. The Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.2 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 3.2, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of this Section 3.2, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by Dow Jones Newswires, The Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.2, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 3.2. Nothing in this Section 3.2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any Series Preferred Stock to elect Directors under specific circumstances.
Section 3.3 . Directors need not be shareholders. Acceptance of the office may be expressed orally or in writing, except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws.
Qualification
Section 3.4 . The number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the corporation shall be not less than nine nor more than twenty-four, the exact number within such minimum and maximum limitations to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors
Number
 
pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors; and such exact number shall be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. As used in these By-Laws, the terms "entire Board of Directors" and "entire Board" mean the total authorized number of directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Section 3.5 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of a director or other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of such director, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors of the entire Board of Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such director's successor is elected and qualified.
Vacancies
Section 3.6 . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the shareholders from office at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and (ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of such director's term of office, but only for cause.
Removal of Directors
Section 3.7 . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, and these By-Laws and subject to the other provisions of Sections 3.1(a) and (b), 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 of this Article III, the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and empower the officers of the corporation and fix their salaries and other compensation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the corporation, may grant general or limited authority to its Chairman, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President and the Group Presidents and other officers and agents of the corporation to make, execute and deliver contracts and other instruments and documents in the name and on behalf of the corporation and under its seal without specific authority in each case, and shall determine to the extent not inconsistent with these By-Laws the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings, as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board action. In addition, the Board may exercise all of the powers of the corporation and do all lawful acts and things which are not reserved to the shareholders by statute, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or the By-Laws.
General Powers
Section 3.8 . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the entire Board, appoint an Executive Committee, to consist of the chief executive officer of the corporation and at least two other Directors, which shall be empowered to perform such functions as may be delegated to it by the Board. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall act as chairman of the Executive Committee unless another member shall have been appointed chairman by the Board of Directors.
Executive Committee
 
Section 3.9 . The Board of Directors, not later than April 30 in each year, shall by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the entire Board appoint an Audit Committee to consist of three or more Directors (none of whom shall be an officer of the corporation or of any of its subsidiary companies) and may appoint one of the members of such Committee to be its Chairman. The Committee shall appoint, annually, a firm of certified public accountants to audit the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary companies and to report to the Committee. The Committee shall confer with such accountants and shall determine the scope of the audits of the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary companies and shall bring to the attention of the Board of Directors those items relating to the audits or the corporation's accounting practices which the Committee and the auditors believe to merit Board review. As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year the Committee shall transmit to the Board of Directors the consolidated balance sheet of the corporation and its subsidiary companies as at the end of each such fiscal year and related statements of consolidated income and surplus for such year, with the certificate of the accountants with respect thereto; and such financial statements and certificate shall be incorporated in the Annual Report to the shareholders of the corporation. The Audit Committee shall establish the rules for the conduct of its meetings; shall keep minutes of its acts and proceedings, which in each instance shall be reported at the next meeting of the Board of Directors.
Audit Committee
Section 3.10 . The Board of Directors may meet and organize immediately after and at the place where the annual meeting of shareholders is held, without notice of such meeting, provided a majority of the entire Board shall be present. Regular meetings of the Board may be held without notice at such time and place as from time to time may be determined by the Board. Special meetings of the Board or of any Committee thereof may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary, on the written request of any two directors. Notice of any special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be mailed to such director, or such Committee member, including alternates as the case may be, addressed to such director, or such Committee member, at such director's, or such Committee member's, residence or usual place of business, not later than the second day before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such director, or such Committee member, at such place by rapifax, by telegraph, or by other means such as electronic advice or be delivered personally, or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Notice of any meeting of the Board or of any Committee need not be given, however, to any director, if waived by such director in writing, either before or after such meeting be held, or if such director shall be present at the meeting; and any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members shall be present thereat. A majority of the directors in office at the time of any regular or special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof shall be present in person at such meeting in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any one or more directors or Committee members may participate in any meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment permitting all persons participating in such meeting to hear each other at the same time, participation by such means to constitute presence in person at such meeting. Except as otherwise required by statute or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
Meetings of the Board; Quorum and Manner of Acting
 
Corporation, as amended, or by the By-Laws, the act of a majority of the directors or Committee members present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the directors or Committee members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. Action by the Board or any Committee thereof may be taken without a meeting provided that all members of the Board or Committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing such action, such resolution and written consent thereto by the directors or Committee members to be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or Committee.
Section 3.11 . In consideration of a director serving in such capacity, each director of the corporation, other than directors who are officers of the corporation or any of its subsidiary companies, shall be entitled to receive an annual fee in such amount and payable in such installments, as the Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the entire Board, may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors shall also have authority to determine, from time to time, the amount of compensation which shall be paid to its members for attendance at meetings of any committee of the Board as well as to any director rendering special services to the corporation.
Directors' Fees
Section 3.12 .
Resignations
(a) Any director of the corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. Subject to Section 3.12(b), any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein, then it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt, and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
(b) .
Majority Voting for Directors
(1) Any incumbent nominee for director who does not receive the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in any uncontested election shall promptly following certification of the election results tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors.
(2) The Board of Directors, acting on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, shall decide whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in making its recommendation, and the Board of Directors in making its decision as to whether to accept or reject such recommendation, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers relevant.
(3) Any incumbent nominee for director who tenders his or her resignation in accordance with the resignation policy shall recuse himself or herself from the deliberations, recommendation or decision, as applicable, of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors regarding whether to accept such resignation. However, if a majority of the members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or Board of Directors, as applicable, are required to tender resignations in accordance with the director resignation policy, then the independent directors who are not required to tender resignations shall appoint a committee from amongst themselves to consider the resignations and, in the event there are fewer than three such independent directors, the entire Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or Board of Directors, as applicable, may participate in the deliberations, recommendation or decision, as applicable.
 
(4) Within 90 days of the certification of the election results, the Board of Directors shall decide whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation. The Board shall promptly disclose its decision in a press release or filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such press release or filing shall include, if applicable, an explanation of the Board of Directors' reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation.
Section 4.1 . The elected officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors (who shall be a director), a Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Vice Chairmen, a President or one or more Group Presidents, a Controller, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may elect or appoint an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Honorary Vice Presidents, and corresponding Officers Emeriti: and either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may elect or appoint one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, one or more Assistant Controllers, and such other assistant officers and agents as, from time to time, may appear to be necessary or advisable in the conduct of the affairs of the corporation. The Board of Directors may designate an officer as the principal or chief executive officer of the corporation who, under the direction of the Board of Directors, shall have the general management, direction and superintendence of the business and affairs of the corporation. The Board of Directors may also designate an officer (or two or more officers acting together) as the principal operating officer of the corporation with responsibility for the business, property and affairs of the corporation. Either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may designate one or more officers or assistant officers as the principal financial officer of the corporation or the principal accounting officer of the corporation. The same person may be elected or appointed to two or more offices except that no person shall simultaneously hold the offices of President or Group President and Secretary. So far as practicable, all elected officers shall be elected at the organization meeting of the Board, in each year, and shall hold office until the organization meeting of the Board in the next subsequent year and until their respective successors are chosen; but any officer, elected or appointed, may be removed at any time, either for or without cause, by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, at any meeting. All officers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Board. If any vacancy occurs in any office, the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, as provided above, may elect or appoint a successor to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the term.
Officers
Section 4.2 . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and at all meetings of the Executive Committee in the absence of a chairman of such Committee appointed by the Board. The Chairman shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman by the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
Section 4.3 . The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall act in a general consultative and advisory capacity to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Chairman of the Executive Committee by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Executive Committee
Section 4.4 . The Vice Chairmen shall perform, in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Executive Committee or when so directed by either, the duties of such officer. They shall have such further powers and duties as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Vice Chairmen
Section 4.5 . The President, under the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, shall have superintendence of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation. The President shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of Directors. In the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Vice Chairmen, the President shall perform the duties of those officers.
President
Section 4.6 . A Group President shall, under the direction of the chief operating officer of the corporation, or if no one has been so designated, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, have superintendence of such segments of the business, properties and affairs of the corporation and such further powers and duties as may be given or assigned to a Group President by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Group President
Section 4.7 . The Executive Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President or a Group President.
Executive Vice Presidents
Section 4.8 . The Senior Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen or the President or a Group President. From time to time one of the Senior Vice Presidents may be designated as the Senior Vice President for Finance. The Senior Vice President for Finance may hold any other office in the corporation.
Senior Vice Presidents
Section 4.9 . The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President or a Group President, or an Executive Vice President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10 . The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the corporate funds and securities. The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the corporation in the manner ordered by the Board. The
Treasurer
 
Treasurer shall upon request render an account of all the Treasurer's transactions as Treasurer to the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Treasurer's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or such other officers, directors or agents as may be designated by the Board of Directors shall endorse checks, notes or drafts payable to the order of the corporation and sign and countersign checks, drafts and orders for the payment or withdrawal of moneys or securities on deposit in the corporate accounts in such manner as the Board may direct. The Treasurer shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to the Treasurer by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, or the President.
Section 4.11 . The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee and of the shareholders. The Secretary shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the corporation. The Secretary shall affix the seal of the corporation to all certificates of stock, except in cases where the transfer agent of the corporation is authorized to affix the seal. The Secretary shall have charge of the stock certificate books, other than those in the hands of the transfer agent, and such other books and papers as the Board may direct. The Secretary shall attend to such correspondence as may be assigned to the Secretary, and perform all other duties incidental to the Secretary's office. The Secretary shall keep a stock record containing the names, alphabetically arranged, of all persons who are shareholders of the corporation, showing their places of residence, the number of shares of stock held by them respectively, and the time when they became owners. The Secretary shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Secretary by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12 . The General Counsel shall be the legal adviser of the corporation. The General Counsel may hold any other office in the corporation.
General Counsel
Section 4.13 . The Controller shall be responsible for and have active control of all matters pertaining to the accounts of the corporation. The Controller shall audit all payrolls and vouchers and shall direct the manner of certifying the same; shall supervise the manner of keeping all vouchers for payments and all other documents relating to such payments; shall receive, audit and consolidate all operating and financial statements of the corporation and its subsidiaries; and shall have the care, custody and supervision of the books of account of the corporation. The Controller shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit the Controller's books and accounts to any director upon application. The Controller shall, upon request, render an account of the financial condition of the corporation to the Board of Directors. The Controller shall have such further powers and duties as may be given the Controller by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.
Controller
Section 4.14 . Assistant Secretaries shall perform the duties of the Secretary in the absence of the Secretary, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
 
Section 4.15 . Assistant Treasurers shall perform the duties of the Treasurer in the absence of the Treasurer, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, the President or the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers
Section 4.16 . Assistant Controllers shall perform the duties of the Controller in the absence of the Controller, and shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or the Controller.
Assistant Controllers
Section 4.17 . No individual elected or appointed to an Honorary Office or an Emeritus Office pursuant to this Article IV shall have as a result of such election or appointment any rights, duties or responsibilities with respect to the business or affairs of this corporation as determined by law or the By-Laws of this corporation.
Emeriti and Honorary Officers
Section 5.1 . All payments for stock of the corporation shall be received by the Treasurer. Failure to pay an installment upon a stock subscription when required to be paid by the Board of Directors shall work a forfeiture of the shares of stock in arrears, pursuant to Section 503 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York.
Payments
Section 5.2 . The shares of stock of the corporation may be represented by certificates or uncertificated, as provided by New York law. To the extent shares are represented by a certificate, the certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and may be sealed with the seal of the corporation or a facsimile thereof. Where any such certificate is manually countersigned by either a transfer agent or a registrar (other than the corporation itself or its employee) any other signature on such certificate may be a facsimile, engraved, stamped or printed. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate was issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if that individual were such officer at the date of issue.
Certificates for Stock; Uncertificated Shares
Shares of the corporation's stock may also be evidenced by registration in the holder's name in uncertificated, book-entry form on the books of the corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, to the extent required by applicable law, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of that class of stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates and the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
Section 5.3 . The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, appoint responsible banks or trust companies or other qualified institutions in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York and in such other cities or states as the Board may deem advisable, to act
Transfer Agents and Registrars
 
as transfer agents or registrars of the stock of the corporation; and, upon such appointments being made, no stock certificates shall be valid until countersigned by one of such transfer agents and registered by one of such registrars and no issuance or transfer of any uncertificated shares shall be valid until book-entry thereof shall have been made on the records of such transfer agents or registrars.
Section 5.4 . Transfers of stock represented by certificates shall be made on the books of the corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by an attorney-in-fact lawfully constituted in writing and upon surrender and cancellation of a certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of the same class of stock, with duly executed assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, and with such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Transfers of uncertificated shares shall by made on the books of the corporation only by the record holder thereof, or by an attorney-in-fact, upon presentation of proper evidence of authority to transfer in accordance with customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form. Written notice of the transfer shall be given by the corporation to the extent required by applicable law.
Transfers
Section 5.5 . The Board of Directors may fix a time, not exceeding sixty days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend, or the making of any distribution or for the delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of interest arising out of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, as a record time for the determination of the shareholders entitled to receive any such dividend, distribution, rights or interest. The Board of Directors at its option, in lieu of so fixing a record time, may prescribe a period not exceeding sixty days prior to the date for such payment, distribution or delivery during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made.
Determination of Shareholders of Record for Certain Purposes
Section 5.6 . The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any stock certificate and any holder of record of uncertificated shares as the holder in fact and owner of the shares represented thereby and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable claim to or interest in such stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof save as expressly provided by the laws of New York.
Shareholders of Record Recognized
Section 5.7 . In case any certificate of stock shall be lost or destroyed, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may authorize the issue of a substitute certificate or, at the request of the holder, substitute stock in uncertificated form, in place of the certificate so lost or destroyed, and may cause any substitute certificate to be countersigned by the appropriate transfer agent and such certificate or uncertificated stock shall be registered by the appropriate registrar; provided, that, in each such case, the lost or destroyed certificate shall be canceled on the books of the corporation and the applicant for a substitute certificate shall furnish to the corporation and to such of its transfer agents and registrars as may require the same, evidence to their satisfaction, in their discretion, of the loss or destruction of such certificate and of the ownership thereof and also such security and indemnity as may by them be required.
Lost Certificate
Section 5.8 . The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, and not inconsistent with these By-Laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the corporation.
Regulations
 
Section 6.1 . At every meeting of shareholders the vote shall be conducted by one or more inspectors of election elected at the last annual meeting of shareholders or, if not so elected, appointed for that purpose by the Board of Directors or, if not so elected or appointed, elected by a per capita vote of the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy; and all questions respecting the qualification of voters, the validity of the proxies and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided by such inspectors who, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be duly sworn faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting with strict impartiality, and according to the best of their ability. If any inspector elected or appointed to act at any meeting shall be absent or refuse to act, or if such inspector's office shall become vacant, the shareholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy shall, by a per capita vote, appoint another inspector to act in such inspector's place.
Inspectors of Election
Section 7.1 . The seal of the corporation shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the corporation followed by the words "Corning, NY", the year of its incorporation, and in the center of the circle the words "Founded 1851".
Seal
Section 7.2 . The seal of the corporation shall be in the custody of the Secretary, who shall have power to affix it to the proper corporate instruments and documents, and who shall attest it. In the Secretary's absence it may be affixed and attested by an Assistant Secretary or affixed and attested by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. The transfer agent of the stock of the corporation may have a facsimile thereof and affix the same to stock certificates issued by it.
Affixing and Attesting
Section 8.1 . All checks, drafts, notes and other negotiable instruments of the corporation shall be signed, countersigned and endorsed by such directors, officers and agents as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time.
Signatures to Negotiable Paper
Section 8.2 . In the absence of any officer, or for any other reason, the Board of Directors may delegate the powers or duties of an officer to another officer or director.
Delegation of Duties
Section 8.3 . Dividends upon the shares of the capital stock of the corporation may be declared and paid out of the net assets of the corporation in excess of its capital, as often and at such times as the Board of Directors may determine, subject to the limitations set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended.
Dividends
Section 8.4 . (a) To the full extent authorized or permitted by law, the corporation shall indemnify any person made, or threatened to be made, a
Indemnification of Directors and Officers
 
party to any action or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, including an action by or in the right of this corporation or any corporation of any type or kind, domestic or foreign, or any joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, partnership or other enterprise, which any director or officer of the corporation served in any capacity at the request of the corporation, by reason of the fact that such person, such person's testator or intestate, is or was or has agreed to become a director or officer of the corporation, or is serving or served or agreed to serve in any capacity such other corporation, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, partnership or other enterprise, and such person is serving or served or agreed to serve at the request of the corporation. Without limitation of the foregoing, such indemnification shall include indemnification against all judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement, taxes, penalties and reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees and costs of investigation or defense reasonably incurred by any such person in connection with any such action or proceeding or any appeal therein, and which expenses have not been recouped by such person in any other manner.
(b) . Upon the request of any person entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII, the corporation shall pay promptly to such person all expenses reasonably incurred by such person in connection with an action or proceeding with respect to which such person is, in the absence of a final adjudication adverse to such person, entitled to indemnification hereunder; that such payment shall be subject to the receipt by the corporation of that person's undertaking to repay the portion of such expenses to which it is finally determined that such person is not entitled; and that no such payment shall be made if a majority of disinterested directors of the corporation, such majority constitutes a quorum of the Board, or if there is not a quorum of disinterested directors, independent legal counsel not a party to such action or proceeding and not regular counsel to the corporation, determines in good faith that it is likely that such person will be found not to be entitled to such indemnification and will not in that event fulfill such person's undertaking to repay such advances. A person entitled to indemnification shall cooperate in good faith with any request by the corporation that common counsel be utilized by parties to an action or proceeding who are similarly situated unless to do so would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between or among such parties.
Advancement of Expenses
provided
provided further
provided
(c) . Section 8.4 of this Article VIII shall be deemed to constitute a contract between the corporation and a person entitled to indemnification and may not, without the consent of such person, be amended to effect adversely such person with respect to any event, act or omission occurring or allegedly occurring prior to the end of the term of office such person is serving when such amendment is adopted. The corporation is authorized to enter into agreements with any of its directors or officers extending rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses to such person to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, but the failure to enter into any such agreement shall not affect or limit the rights of such person pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII, it being expressly recognized that all directors and officers of the corporation, by serving as such after the adoption hereof, are acting in reliance hereon and the corporation is estopped to contend otherwise.
Contractual Article
(d) . The corporation may, but need not, maintain insurance at its expense insuring persons entitled to indemnification under Section 8.4 of this Article VIII against liabilities whether or not such liabilities are indemnifiable pursuant to Section 8.4 of this Article VIII.
Insurance
 
(e) . The indemnification provided by Section 8.4 of this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a director or officer of the corporation may be entitled.
Non-exclusivity
(f) . If and to the extent that any provision of Section 8.4 of this Article VIII is inconsistent with Article 7 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, such provision shall be deemed to have been amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such Article 7.
Amendment to Conform to Business Corporation Law
Section 8.5 . Except as otherwise prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President, any Group President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any other Vice President shall sign and execute all contracts, instruments and documents in the name of the corporation.
Signatures to Contracts
Section 9.1 .
Amendments
(a) The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of Sections 3.1(a) and (b), 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 of Article III of these By-Laws and this Section 9.1(a); provided, however, that this Section 9.1(a) shall not apply to, and such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment, alteration, repeal, or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions, declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire Board of Directors.(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 9.1(a) of this Article IX, these may be altered or repealed, in any respect, and new By-Laws, not inconsistent with any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, or any provision of law, may be adopted, either by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority in number of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, given at an annual meeting, or at any special meeting the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof, or by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, given at any meeting thereof, the notice of which shall include the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary thereof.
Section 9.2 . All prior By-Laws of the Company are hereby repealed.
Repeal of Old By-Laws
 

Exhibit 99.1


