FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20121024071722.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(607) 974-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The Corning Incorporated press release dated October 24, 2012 regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibit
99           Press Release dated October 24, 2012, issued by Corning Incorporated.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
FOR RELEASE  OCTOBER 24, 2012
Corning Incorporated (NYSE:GLW) today announced its results for the third quarter of 2012.
CORNING, N.Y. 
Third-Quarter Summary
Quarter Three Financial Comparisons
*
These are non-GAAP financial measures.  The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is provided in the tables following this news release, as well as on the companys investor relations website.
 
 
Reflecting on the companys third-quarter performance, Wendell P. Weeks, chairman, chief executive officer, and president, said, We were pleased with Cornings overall performance this past quarter as we grew sales and earnings sequentially, and exceeded our expectations for the period.
 
 
 
 
Corning Announces Third-Quarter Results
Page Two
We are making progress on our goal to improve Cornings overall profitability. We had our strongest quarterly sales to date for Corning Gorilla Glass. Our Display Technologies segment continued to stabilize its earnings with another quarter of moderate LCD glass price declines. However, weakening global economic conditions worked against our sales results in Telecommunications and Environmental Technologies.
 
Weeks referenced Cornings entry into new supply agreements with industry-leading LCD display manufacturers this past quarter. These new customer agreements will assist us in maintaining Cornings market position at specified levels and contain mechanisms that establish a relationship between Cornings glass price and the markets glass price. We believe these new agreements will allow us to manage our capacity more efficiently and enable us to continue improving our cost position, he said.
Third-Quarter Segment Results
Sales in the Display Technologies segment were $763 million, a 19% sequential increase and 6% year-over-year decline. Glass price declines for LCD were moderate, as expected.
Telecommunications segment sales were $523 million, declining 6% sequentially and 7% year over year. The decline was driven by lower sales in North America and Europe, partially offset by growth in China. North American sales were impacted by certain project delays and a winding down of U.S. stimulus spending on optical cable in support of telecommunications infrastructure projects. European sales were impacted by a softening in market demand.
Specialty Materials segment sales were $363 million, a 23% sequential and 21% year-over-year increase driven by Gorilla Glass sales in the handheld and information technology device markets.  Sales of semiconductor products were down sequentially and year over year.
Environmental Technologies segment sales were $233 million, a 6% sequential and year-over-year decline. Following the summers seasonal manufacturing shutdowns, higher light-duty diesel product sales were offset by lower sales of heavy-duty diesel filters and substrates. Orders for heavy-duty emissions products declined substantially as truck demand slowed significantly in the third quarter and manufacturers began to manage inventory.
Life Sciences segment sales were $155 million, down 4% sequentially and up 1% year over year. The company expects its acquisition of the majority of the BD Discovery Labware unit to be completed this year, pending regulatory approvals. When complete, the acquisition will be integrated into Cornings Life Sciences business segment, providing a much broader portfolio of high-quality laboratory research products and expanded global market reach.
Dow Corning Corporations equity earnings were $48 million, down 21% sequentially, driven primarily by the absence of two non-recurring gains in the second quarter, and a higher tax rate. Dow Cornings equity earnings were down 46% on a year-over-year basis, driven by severe weakness in the solar polysilicon market.
 
 
 
 
Corning Announces Third-Quarter Results
Page Three
Cornings gross margin for the quarter was 43%, up slightly over the previous quarter. The company ended the second quarter with $6.4 billion in cash and short-term investments. Corning continued to purchase outstanding common stock throughout the quarter, and expects to complete its stock repurchase program in the fourth quarter.
Looking Forward
In quarter four, we will build on the great strides we have made toward achieving positive momentum in our LCD glass business, James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer said. It was nearly one year ago that our LCD business experienced an upset that significantly reduced our profitability. Since then, we brought our glass capacity in line with demand, made significant progress in moderating LCD glass price declines, and established new supply agreements with key customers.
The company has the following fourth-quarter expectations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corning Announces Third-Quarter Results
Page Four
The weakening economy is affecting sales in many of our businesses, with several not achieving the growth expectations we set for the year. We believe these economic headwinds will persist next year. In order to deliver on our plan to grow earnings, we are likely to implement selected cost reductions in the areas of project spending, capital expenditures, and fixed costs, which may include modest headcount reductions, Flaws said. Once the restructuring plan is determined, we anticipate taking a pretax charge of up to $50 million in the fourth quarter to cover the cost of that restructuring.
We are executing our strategy to improve profits and deliver new growth opportunities, despite these challenges, Flaws said. Gorilla Glass, now available on more than one billion consumer electronics devices around the world, has been a resounding success for Corning, and we continue to bring other new technologies to market. We are excited about the development of Corning Willow Glass, an ultra-slim flexible glass that we believe could revolutionize the shape and form of next-generation consumer electronics technologies, and we are experiencing success introducing new high-speed wireless connectivity solutions that greatly expand bandwidth capabilities in large venues such as stadiums and arenas. Moreover, we continue to supplement our organic growth with strategic acquisitions that expand our product offerings and increase our market access, he said.
Flaws added, These positive prospects, combined with Cornings continuing strong operating cash flow and declining capital spending, gave the board of directors confidence to increase the companys dividend payout by 20% earlier this quarter.
Corning is executing the strategy we laid out to investors at the beginning of the year, and we believe our future is very bright.
Upcoming Investor Events
Corning will present at the UBS Global Technology and Services Conference in New York City on Nov. 14 and at the Credit Suisse Technology Conference in Scottsdale, Ariz. on Nov. 27.
Third-Quarter Conference Call Information
The company will host a third-quarter conference call on Wednesday, Oct. 24 at 8:30 a.m. ET. To participate, please call toll free (800) 230-1093 or for international access call (612) 288-0329 approximately 10-15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The password is QUARTER THREE. The host is NICHOLSON. To listen to a live audio webcast of the call, go to Cornings website at and click Investor Events on the left. A replay will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. ET and will run through 5 p.m. ET, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. To listen, dial (800) 475-6701 or for international access dial (320) 365-3844. The access code is 266618. The webcast will be archived for one year following the call.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
 
 
 
Corning Announces Third-Quarter Results
Page Five
Presentation of Information in this News Release
Non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP. Cornings non-GAAP net income and EPS measures exclude restructuring, impairment and other charges and adjustments to prior estimates for such charges. Additionally, the companys non-GAAP measures exclude adjustments to asbestos settlement reserves, gains and losses arising from debt retirements, charges or credits arising from adjustments to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, equity method charges resulting from impairments of equity method investments or restructuring, impairment or other charges taken by equity method companies and gains from discontinued operations. The company believes presenting non-GAAP net income and EPS measures is helpful to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in the companys underlying performance. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures can be found on the companys website by going to and clicking Financial Reports on the left. Reconciliation also accompanies this news release.
www.corning.com/investor_relations
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), which are based on current expectations and assumptions about Cornings financial results and business operations, that involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include: the effect of global political, economic and business conditions; conditions in the financial and credit markets; currency fluctuations; tax rates; product demand and industry capacity; competition; reliance on a concentrated customer base; manufacturing efficiencies; cost reductions; availability of critical components and materials; new product commercialization; pricing fluctuations and changes in the mix of sales between premium and non-premium products; new plant start-up or restructuring costs; possible disruption in commercial activities due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, political or financial instability, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, or major health concerns; adequacy of insurance; equity company activities; acquisition and divestiture activities; the level of excess or obsolete inventory; the rate of technology change; the ability to enforce patents; product and components performance issues; retention of key personnel; stock price fluctuations; and adverse litigation or regulatory developments. These and other risk factors are detailed in Cornings filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the day that they are made, and Corning undertakes no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
Corning Announces Third-Quarter Results
Page Six
About Corning Incorporated
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy, and metrology.
www.corning.com
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to these financial statements.
 
 
 
Certain amounts for 2011 were reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation.
 
 
 
Our reportable operating segments include Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.
 
 
 
A reconciliation of reportable segment net income to consolidated net income follows (in millions):
 
 
 
Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC) was named in numerous lawsuits alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos and, on April 16, 2000, PCC filed for Chapter 11 reorganization.  Corning, with other relevant parties, proposed a Plan of Reorganization of PCC in 2003, which has not yet been confirmed.  Under this PCC Plan, Corning would contribute certain payments and assets.  In the third quarter of 2012, we recorded a charge of $3 million ($2 million after-tax) to adjust the asbestos litigation liability for the change in value of the components to be contributed by Corning under this PCC Plan.
In the third quarter of 2012, equity in earnings of affiliated companies included a $10 million ($9 million after-tax) credit for Cornings share of Dow Corning Corporations settlement of a dispute related to long term supply agreements.
Weighted average shares outstanding are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
The above supplemental information is intended to facilitate analysis of Cornings businesses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


