FILE:GLW/GLW-8K-20120322091727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 22, 2012, Corning Incorporated announced that Dr. Joseph A. Miller, Jr., 70, will retire as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer effective on April 30, 2012, following 11 years of service. At the April 26, 2012 meeting of the Corning Board of Directors, Dr. David L. Morse, 59, will be proposed for election as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer to succeed Dr. Miller. The related Corning Incorporated press release dated March 22, 2012 is furnished as Exhibit 99.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99
News Release
FOR RELEASE  MARCH 22, 2012
Corning Incorporated (NYSE: GLW) today announced that the company's is expected to elect David L. Morse, Ph.D., as executive vice president and chief technology officer at its meeting on April 26, 2012. His appointment will be effective May 1, at which time he will also become a member of Corning's .
CORNING, N.Y. 
board of directors
management committee
Dr. Morse will succeed , 70, who is retiring on April 30, 2012. Dr. Miller served 11 years as Corning's executive vice president and chief technology officer.
Dr. Joseph A. Miller, Jr.
"Corning has a long track record of producing life-changing inventions, and we are confident that Dr. Morse will build upon this legacy of success," said , chairman, chief executive officer, and president. "Under his leadership, the research organization has delivered technical innovations to enable Corning's most recent new products in glass and ceramics, including LCD glass, , and ."
Wendell P. Weeks
EAGLE XG
Corning Gorilla Glass
ClearCurve multimode optical fiber
Dr. Morse, 59, has 36 years of experience in Corning's technology organization. He joined Corning in 1976 as a composition scientist in glass research, and most recently served as senior vice president and director of corporate research for the Science & Technology organization.
Dr. Morse is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, and chairman of the McDonnell International Scholars External Advisory Committee at Washington University in St. Louis. He also serves on the board of industry advisors for the International Materials Institute for New Functionality in Glass (MI-NFG) and the National Science Foundation Board on Chemical Sciences and Technology.
Dr. Morse is a graduate of Bowdoin College and received his doctorate in chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He and his wife, Susan, reside in Corning. They have three grown children.
Corning Incorporated () is the world leader in specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Our products include glass substrates for LCD televisions, computer monitors and laptops; ceramic substrates and filters for mobile emission control systems; optical fiber, cable, hardware & equipment for telecommunications networks; optical biosensors for drug discovery; and other advanced optics and specialty glass solutions for a number of industries including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy, and metrology.
About Corning Incorporated
www.corning.com
:  |  |  | 
Follow Corning
RSS Feeds
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube


