FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20030424160809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (c)  Exhibits.
Item 9. Information Furnished Under Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition).
     The information contained in this Item 9 of this Current Report is being furnished pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8216; 34-47583 (March 27, 2003).
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     On April 24, 2003, Starbucks Corporation issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the 13 and 26 weeks ended March 30, 2003. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
     Exhibit 99.1 to the report contains a "non-GAAP financial measure" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measure covers systemwide retail store sales. This non-GAAP financial measure is discussed below, including the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP"), a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and the reasons why the Company believes the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to management and to investors. The non-GAAP financial measure should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the Company's reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     On page 9 of the earnings release included in Exhibit 99.1, the Company indicated that systemwide retail store sales were $1.1 billion and $0.9 billion for the 13 weeks ended March 30, 2003, and March 31, 2002, respectively. Systemwide retail store sales were $2.3 billion and $1.8 billion for the 26 weeks ended March 30, 2003, and March 31, 2002, respectively. Management has indicated that the growth of these sales was primarily driven by the opening of 1,090 retail stores in the last 12 months and strong comparable store sales growth in North America. The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to the systemwide retail store sales measure is "Retail" revenues on the consolidated statements of earnings. The systemwide retail store sales measure also includes the net retail revenues generated by licensed stores, as reported by domestic and international licensees or estimated due to timing of periodic reporting by licensees.
     The following table reconciles the Company's total "Retail" revenues, prepared on the basis of GAAP, to total systemwide retail store sales for the periods presented:
     The systemwide retail store sales measure is useful to management and investors because it provides an indication of consumer spending in Starbucks retail stores, a growing portion of which are licensed and not consolidated into the financial results of Starbucks Corporation. The systemwide retail store sales measure is primarily used by the restaurant industry.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Starbucks Corporation (Nasdaq: SBUX) today announced revenues and earnings for its fiscal second quarter ended March 30, 2003.
SEATTLE; April 24, 2003 
For the 13 weeks ended March 30, 2003, consolidated net revenues increased 22 percent to $954 million from $783 million for the same 13-week period of fiscal 2002. Retail revenues increased 22 percent to $809 million, and specialty revenues increased 22 percent to $145 million. Comparable Company-operated store sales increased 7 percent as compared with the same 13-week period of fiscal 2002.
Net earnings for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2003, increased to $52.1 million from $31.7 million for the same period in fiscal 2002. Diluted earnings per share were $0.13 for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2003, compared to $0.08 for the comparable period in fiscal 2002. Net earnings for the 13-week period ended March 31, 2002, included a one-time charge of $18.0 million for litigation settlement. Excluding the one-time charge, net earnings increased 21 percent from the comparable 13-week period ended March 31, 2002. There were no similar one-time charges in the second quarter of 2003.
For the 26 weeks ended March 30, 2003, consolidated net revenues increased 23 percent to $2.0 billion from $1.6 billion for the same period in fiscal 2002. Retail revenues increased 23 percent to $1.7 billion, and specialty revenues increased 24 percent to $299 million. Comparable Company-operated store sales for the 26-week period ended March 30, 2003, increased 8 percent as compared to the same 26-week period in fiscal 2002.
Net earnings for the 26-week period ended March 30, 2003, increased 31 percent to $130.5 million from $99.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2002. Diluted earnings per share were $0.33 for the 26-week period ended March 30, 2003, compared to $0.25 per share for the comparable period in fiscal 2002. Net earnings for the 26-week period ended March 31, 2002, included a one-time charge recorded during the second quarter and a capital gain recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Excluding both the one-time charge and the capital gain, net earnings increased 27 percent from the comparable 26-week period ended March 31, 2002.
 
Today, Starbucks also discussed the following fiscal 2003 targets:
The Company will be holding a conference call today at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman and chief global strategist, Orin Smith, president and chief executive officer and Michael Casey, executive vice president and chief financial officer. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the Company's web site address of http://www.starbucks.com/aboutus/investor.asp. A replay of the call will be available from approximately 4:00 p.m. Pacific time today through 4:00 p.m. Pacific time on May 1, 2003, by calling 1-800-642-1687, reservation number 9638096 or by accessing it via the Company's web site at http://www.starbucks.com/aboutus/investor.asp.
The Company's consolidated financial statements, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications, and should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release.
 
(a)  Calculated as a percentage of retail revenues.
(b)  Calculated as a percentage of specialty revenues.
The following reconciliation of net earnings and earnings per share is provided to assist the reader with understanding the financial impact of a one-time item :
(unaudited and in thousands, except per share data)
 
(a)  Calculated as a percentage of retail revenues.
(b)  Calculated as a percentage of specialty revenues.
The following reconciliation of net earnings and earnings per share is provided to assist the reader with understanding the financial impact of one-time items :
(unaudited and in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
Segment Reporting
Starbucks Corporation is organized into a number of business units that correspond to the Company's operating segments: North American Retail, Business Alliances and All other business units, which includes International Retail, international store licensing, grocery channel licensing, warehouse club accounts, interactive operations, equity investees and other initiatives.
The table below reconciles revenues by operating segment to total net revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the periods indicated
(unaudited, in thousands):
The table below presents operating income by operating segment, net of intersegment eliminations for the periods indicated
(unaudited, in thousands):
The table below presents operating income by operating segment, net of intersegment eliminations for the periods indicated
(unaudited, in thousands):
 
Austria and Switzerland
In March 2003, the Company announced plans to acquire its licensed operations in Austria and Switzerland from its partner, Bon apptit Group. Starbucks anticipates the acquisition will be completed in the Company's third fiscal quarter and will not have a significant impact to its fiscal 2003 financial results.
The Company's 19.5 percent equity ownership interests in both of these licensed operations had previously been accounted for under the cost method. As a result of the acquisition announcement and the Company's ability to exert significant influence over operating and financial policies, Starbucks determined that the equity method of accounting should be applied for these investments. As required under generally accepted accounting principles, the prior periods have been adjusted as if these investments were always accounted for under the equity method. The following table summarizes the impacts, which resulted in a cumulative loss adjustment of $4.6 million:
Consolidated Balance Sheets  Detail
Inventories consist of the following
(in thousands):
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and consist of the following
(in thousands):
 
Systemwide Retail Store Sales
Systemwide retail store sales are used by industry analysts and by management to measure global penetration of Starbucks retail stores. However, this measure does not capture revenues generated in non-retail-store channels, such as foodservice accounts, warehouse club accounts, interactive operations, distribution through the Company's grocery channel, or any of the external sales of bottled Frappuccino, Starbucks DoubleShot, or Tazo tea products.
Systemwide retail store sales, which include net sales for both Company-operated and licensed retail stores, were as follows
(in millions):
The increases in systemwide retail store sales of 25 percent for both the 13-week and 26-week periods ended March 30, 2003, compared to the same periods in fiscal 2002 are primarily due to the opening of 1,090 stores in the last 12 months and strong comparable store sales growth in North America.
Store Counts
The Company's store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
Additional Information
The following reconciliation of earnings before income taxes and earnings before income taxes as a percentage of total net revenues is provided to assist the reader with understanding the financial impact of one-time items
(unaudited and in thousands, except per share data):
Starbucks Coffee Company is the leading retailer, roaster and brand of specialty coffee in the world, with more than 6,000 retail locations in North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and the Pacific Rim. The Company is committed to offering the highest quality coffee and the while conducting its business in ways that produce social, environmental and economic benefits for communities in which it does business. In addition to its retail operations, the Company produces and sells bottled Frappuccino coffee drinks, Starbucks DoubleShot coffee drink, and a line of superpremium ice creams through its joint venture partnerships. The Company's other brands enhance the through best-of-class products: Tazo Tea Company offers a line of innovative premium teas, and Hear Music produces and distributes a line of exceptional compact discs.
Starbucks Experience
Starbucks Experience
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements, including anticipated store openings, comparable store sales expectations, trends in or expectations regarding the Company's revenue growth, capital expenditures, effective tax rate, net earnings and earnings per share results, are all based on currently available operating, financial, and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including but not limited to, coffee and other raw material prices and availability, successful execution of internal performance and expansion plans, fluctuations in U.S. and international economies, any economic ramifications from the war in the Middle East, any incidents of terrorism, or other international events or developments, the impact of competition, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


