FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20041216141709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On December 14, 2004, Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") announced the retirement of Eduardo R. ("Ted") Garcia as executive vice president, Supply Chain and Coffee Operations ("SCCO") and the appointment of Dorothy J. Kim as his successor. A press release announcing Mr. Garcia's retirement and Ms. Kim's appointment is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
     Ms. Kim, age 42, joined Starbucks in November 1995 and was promoted to executive vice president, SCCO in December 2004. From April 2003 to December 2004, Ms. Kim was senior vice president, Global Logistics, Planning and Procurement. From April 2002 to April 2003, Ms. Kim was vice president, SCCO, Logistics, and from October 2000 to April 2002, Ms. Kim was vice president, SCCO, Finance and Systems. Prior to becoming a vice president, Ms. Kim held several positions in retail planning and operations.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Starbucks Coffee Company (NASDAQ: SBUX) announced today the promotion of Dorothy Kim, senior vice president, Global Logistics & Procurement, to executive vice president, Supply Chain & Coffee Operations (SCCO). Kim will assume leadership of SCCO from E.R. (Ted) Garcia, who is retiring after 10 years with Starbucks.
Seattle; Dec, 14, 2004 
Kim will be responsible for the day-to-day activities of SCCO, which include the global strategic business management of manufacturing, engineering, purchasing, distribution, planning and transportation; supply chain integrated systems; inventory management and worldwide sourcing of coffee. She will report to Jim Donald, ceo designate.
"The contributions that Dorothy has made to Starbucks during her tenure with the Company will help ensure the continued success of SCCO, an important growth driver for the Company," said Donald. "I am thankful to Ted for his many contributions during his decade with Starbucks. Over the years, both Ted and Dorothy have demonstrated their personal commitment to living Starbucks Guiding Principles every day."
Kim joined Starbucks in 1995, where she gained four years of retail planning and operations experience prior to transitioning to SCCO. She held the positions of vice president, SCCO Logistics, and vice president, SCCO Finance & Systems, before her promotion to senior vice president, Global Logistics & Procurement. Kim was instrumental in leading the development of Starbucks SCCO Systems Vision and Master Project Plan.
"Dorothy has been an important member of my team over the last five years," said Garcia. "I can say without hesitation that there is no one in the Supply Chain field more qualified, or ready, to lead this world-class team at Starbucks."
 
Starbucks promotes Dorothy Kim
Page 2
Prior to joining Starbucks, Kim served as the general manager at Yun's Company, a Seattle-area general contractor, where she increased revenue by 100 percent and delivered healthy profits for all programs within a two-year period. Her broad experience includes roles in several supply chain functions with large, brand name companies such as Boeing, Honeywell and Heath Tecna, with the major focus on reducing supply chain costs.
Retiring executive vice president Ted Garcia joined Starbucks in 1995 as senior vice president, Logistics & Manufacturing. Through his prior experience developing manufacturing and logistics networks, as well as information systems and technology platforms, he was able to establish programs for Starbucks that have delivered savings totaling more than $250 million. These savings were achieved through consolidated global purchasing leverage, conversion cost reductions, reduced logistics costs and lower inventory levels. Additionally, Garcia was responsible for the development of three new roasting plants in York, Pa., Carson Valley, Nev. and Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Under Garcia's leadership, Starbucks became known as an established leader in supply chain activities.
Starbucks Corporation is the leading retailer, roaster and brand of specialty coffee in the world, with more than 8,700 retail locations in North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and the Pacific Rim. The Company is committed to offering the highest quality coffee and the while conducting its business in ways that produce social, environmental and economic benefits for communities in which it does business. In addition to its retail operations, the Company produces and sells bottled Frappuccino coffee drinks, Starbucks DoubleShot coffee drink, and a line of superpremium ice creams through its joint venture partnerships. The Company's brand portfolio provides a wide variety of consumer products. Tazo Tea's line of innovative premium teas and Hear Music's exceptional compact discs enhance the through best-of-class products. The Seattle's Best Coffee and Torrefazione Italia Coffee brands enable Starbucks to appeal to a broader consumer base by offering an alternative variety of coffee flavor profiles.
About Starbucks
Starbucks Experience
Starbucks Experience


