FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20051014161609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On October 14, 2005, Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") entered into an employment letter with Martin Coles, president, Starbucks Coffee International (the "Coles Letter"). The Coles Letter supersedes Mr. Coles's prior employment arrangement with the Company and is being entered into in order to terminate the Company's obligation under such arrangement to provide severance payments to Mr. Coles upon termination of his employment with the Company. The Coles Letter is filed with this report as , and is incorporated by reference into this report.
Exhibit 10.1
     Under the terms of the Coles Letter, Mr. Coles will continue to be employed as president, Starbucks Coffee International on an "at will" basis. The material terms and conditions of the Coles Letter are summarized below, which descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the provisions of the Coles Letter filed with this report as .
Exhibit 10.1
Base Salary
     As president, Starbucks Coffee International, Mr. Coles will continue to be paid his current base salary, which annualizes to $610,000.
Bonus
     Mr. Coles will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Management Bonus Plan at an incentive target of 65% of eligible base salary. The performance criteria for such incentive target have been established for Mr. Coles by the independent members of the Company's Board of Directors.
Stock Awards
     Mr. Coles will continue to be eligible to receive stock awards under the Key Employee Sub-Plan to the Company's 2005 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan.
Management Deferred Compensation Plan
     Mr. Coles will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Management Deferred Compensation Plan for so long as he remains on the Company's U.S. payroll.
Executive Life Insurance
     Mr. Coles will continue to receive the maximum partner life insurance coverage benefit paid for by the Company of $2,000,000.
Table of Contents
Partner Benefits
     Mr. Coles will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's benefits, stock and savings programs.
Non-Competition Agreements
     Mr. Coles will continue to be bound by the terms and conditions of the non-competition agreement he entered into with the Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
October 3, 2005
Mr. Martin P. Coles 2401 Utah Avenue S. Seattle, WA 98134
Dear Martin:
This document is designed to provide you with information regarding the terms and conditions of your employment as president, Starbucks Coffee International.
You will continue to be paid bi-weekly at a base salary that annualizes to $610,000.
Base Salary
You will continue to participate in the Executive Management Bonus Plan at an incentive target of 65% of your eligible base salary.
Bonus
You will continue to be eligible to receive stock awards under the Key Employee Stock Plan.
Stock Awards
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the Management Deferred Compensation Plan (MDCP) if you are on our U.S. payroll.
Management Deferred Compensation Plan
You will continue to receive the maximum partner life coverage benefit paid for by Starbucks of $1,000,000, which increases to $2,000,000 effective October 1, 2005.
Executive Life Insurance
As president, Starbucks Coffee International , you will continue to be prohibited from trading Starbucks securities (or, in some circumstances, the securities of companies doing business with Starbucks) from time to time in accordance with the Company's Insider Trading Policy and Blackout Procedures, a copy of which you have been provided.
Insider Trading
As an officer of Starbucks, you are prohibited from trading in coffee commodity futures for your own account.
Coffee Hedging
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the benefits, savings and stock programs outlined in , a copy of which has been provided to you. Please note that although it is Starbucks intention to continue these plans, they may be amended or terminated at any time without notice.
Other Benefits
Your Special Blend
You will remain employed "at will," meaning that either you or Starbucks can end the employment relationship at any time, for any reason not prohibited by law.
"At will" employment
You will continue to be bound to the terms and conditions of the Non-Competition Agreement, dated March 3, 2004 between you and Starbucks.
Non-Competition Agreement
 
Mr. Martin P. Coles October 3, 2005 Page 2
This letter, and the agreements and documents referred to herein, constitute the entire agreement regarding your employment with Starbucks and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements or arrangements, written or oral, concerning your employment. This letter will be governed by the laws of the State of Washington, without regard to such state's conflicts of laws rules.
Miscellaneous
* * * * *
Warm regards,
/s/ James L. Donald
James L. Donald president and chief executive officer
Accepted by:


