FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20050527163046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On May 25, 2005, Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") entered into an employment letter with each of Michael Casey, the Company's executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief administrative officer (the "Casey Letter"), and David A. Pace, the Company's executive vice president, Partner Resources (the "Pace Letter" and, together with the Casey Letter, the "Executive Letters"). The Executive Letters supersede Mr. Casey's and Mr. Pace's respective prior employment arrangements with the Company and are being entered into in order to terminate the Company's obligations under such arrangements to provide severance payments to Messrs. Casey and Pace upon termination of their employment with the Company. The Executive Letters are filed with this report as and , respectively, and are incorporated by reference into this report.
Exhibit 10.1
Exhibit 10.2
     Under the terms of the Casey Letter, Mr. Casey will continue to be employed as the executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief administrative officer of the Company on an "at will" basis. Under the terms of the Pace Letter, Mr. Pace will continue to be employed as the executive vice president, Partner Resources of the Company on an "at will" basis. The material terms and conditions of the Executive Letters are summarized below, which descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the provisions of the Executive Letters attached to this report as and , respectively.
Exhibit 10.1
Exhibit 10.2
Base Salary
     As executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief administrative officer of the Company, Mr. Casey will continue to be paid his current base salary, which annualizes to $575,000. As executive vice president, Partner Resources, Mr. Pace will continue to be paid his current base salary, which annualizes to $450,000.
Bonus
     Each of Messrs. Casey and Pace will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Management Bonus Plan for the Company's fiscal year ended October 2, 2005 at an incentive target of 50% of eligible base salary. The performance criteria for such incentive targets have been established for such executives by the independent members of the Company's Board of Directors.
Stock Awards
     Each of Messrs. Casey and Pace will continue to be eligible to receive stock awards under the Key Employee Sub-Plan to the Company's 2005 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan.
Table of Contents
Management Deferred Compensation Plan
     Each of Messrs. Casey and Pace will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Management Deferred Compensation Plan for so long as he remains on the Company's U.S. payroll.
Executive Life Insurance
     Each of Messrs. Casey and Pace will continue to receive the maximum partner life insurance coverage benefit paid for by the Company of $1,000,000.
Partner Benefits
     Each of Messrs. Casey and Pace will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's benefits, stock and savings programs.
Non-Competition Agreements
     Each of Messrs. Casey and Pace will continue to be bound by the terms and conditions of the non-competition agreement he entered into with the Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 10.1 May 25, 2005 Mr. Michael Casey 2401 Utah Avenue S. Seattle, WA 98134 Dear Michael: This document is designed to provide you with information regarding the terms and conditions of your employment as executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief administrative officer of Starbucks Corporation. Base Salary You will continue to be paid bi-weekly at a base salary that annualizes to $575,000. Bonus You will continue to participate in the Executive Management Bonus Plan at an incentive target of 50% of your eligible base salary. Stock Awards You will continue to be eligible to receive stock awards under the Key Employee Stock Plan. Management Deferred Compensation Plan You will continue to be eligible to participate in the Management Deferred Compensation Plan (MDCP) if you are on our U.S. payroll. Executive Life Insurance You will continue to receive the maximum partner life coverage benefit paid for by Starbucks of $1,000,000. Insider Trading As executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief administrative officer of Starbucks, you will continue to be prohibited from trading Starbucks securities (or, in some circumstances, the securities of companies doing business with Starbucks) from time to time in accordance with the Company's Insider Trading Policy and Blackout Procedures, a copy of which you have been provided. Coffee Hedging As an officer of Starbucks, you are prohibited from trading in coffee commodity futures for your own account. Other Benefits You will continue to be eligible to participate in the benefits, savings and stock programs outlined in Your Special Blend, a copy of which has been provided to you. Please note that although it is Starbucks intention to continue these plans, they may be amended or terminated at any time without notice. "At will" employment You will remain employed "at will," meaning that either you or Starbucks can end the employment relationship at any time, for any reason not prohibited by law. Non-Competition Agreement You will continue to be bound to the terms and conditions of the Non-Competition Agreement, dated August 1, 1995, between you and Starbucks.
Mr. Michael Casey May 25, 2005 Page 2 Miscellaneous This letter, and the agreements and documents referred to herein, constitute the entire agreement regarding your employment with Starbucks and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements or arrangements, written or oral, concerning your employment. This letter will be governed by the laws of the State of Washington, without regard to such state's conflicts of laws rules. * * * * * Warm regards, /s/ James L. Donald - ----------------------- James L. Donald president and chief executive officer Accepted by: /s/ Michael Casey 5/25/05 - ----------------------- ------------------ Michael Casey Date cc: Partner File

EXHIBIT 10.2 May 25, 2005 Mr. David A. Pace 2401 Utah Avenue S. Seattle, WA 98134 Dear David: This document is designed to provide you with information regarding the terms and conditions of your employment as executive vice president, Partner Resources, of Starbucks Corporation. Base Salary You will continue to be paid bi-weekly at a base salary that annualizes to $450,000. Bonus You will continue to participate in the Executive Management Bonus Plan at an incentive target of 50% of your eligible base salary. Stock Awards You will continue to be eligible to receive stock awards under the Key Employee Stock Plan. Management Deferred Compensation Plan You will continue to be eligible to participate in the Management Deferred Compensation Plan (MDCP) if you are on our U.S. payroll. Executive Life Insurance You will continue to receive the maximum partner life coverage benefit paid for by Starbucks of $1,000,000. Insider Trading As executive vice president, Partner Resources, of Starbucks, you will continue to be prohibited from trading Starbucks securities (or, in some circumstances, the securities of companies doing business with Starbucks) from time to time in accordance with the Company's Insider Trading Policy and Blackout Procedures, a copy of which you have been provided. Coffee Hedging As an officer of Starbucks, you are prohibited from trading in coffee commodity futures for your own account. Other Benefits You will continue to be eligible to participate in the benefits, savings and stock programs outlined in Your Special Blend, a copy of which has been provided to you. Please note that although it is Starbucks intention to continue these plans, they may be amended or terminated at any time without notice. "At will" employment You will remain employed "at will," meaning that either you or Starbucks can end the employment relationship at any time, for any reason not prohibited by law. Non-Competition Agreement You will continue to be bound to the terms and conditions of the Non-Competition Agreement, dated July 24, 2002, between you and Starbucks.
Mr. David A. Pace May 25, 2005 Page 2 Miscellaneous This letter, and the agreements and documents referred to herein, constitute the entire agreement regarding your employment with Starbucks and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements or arrangements, written or oral, concerning your employment. This letter will be governed by the laws of the State of Washington, without regard to such state's conflicts of laws rules. * * * * * Warm regards, /s/ James L. Donald - ------------------------ James L. Donald president and chief executive officer Accepted by: /s/ David A. Pace 5/25/05 - -------------------- ---------------------- David A. Pace Date cc: Partner File Stock Administration


