FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20061116164102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02.      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On November 16, 2006, Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") issued an earnings release announcing its financial results for the 13 weeks and 52 weeks ended October 1, 2006. A copy of the earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
     Effective October 3, 2005, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"), requiring all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the statement of earnings based on their fair values. The Company adopted this accounting treatment using the modified-prospective transition method, as permitted under SFAS 123R; therefore, results for prior periods have not been restated. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company accounted for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations. In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the attached press release (at page 7) includes certain "non-GAAP financial measures" under applicable SEC rules because they exclude the stock-based payment expense that is included in the directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, to which the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled in a table. The non-GAAP financial measures provided on page 7 of the attached press release and calculated in this manner are:
     These non-GAAP financial measures are not a substitute for the reported GAAP measures and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.
     The Company's management finds these non-GAAP financial measures useful, and believes they provide useful information to investors regarding the Company's results of operations, because they have been prepared on a basis comparable to that used in prior periods. Management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in reviewing the financial results of the Company, both on a segment and on a consolidated basis. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to review financial results because the Company's internal budgets and targets (including under the Company's incentive compensation plans) for fiscal 2006 were established prior to the Company's adoption of SFAS 123R. Therefore, assessing performance against those budgets and targets, and the related management reporting, requires exclusion of stock-based compensation expense. Management further believes that, where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP (pro forma) earnings before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and earnings per share before cumulative effect of accounting change for FIN 47- diluted are based on specific, identified charges that impact different line items in the consolidated statement of earnings, investors may find it useful to know how these specific line items in the consolidated statement of earnings are affected by these adjustments. In particular, now that the Company has adopted SFAS 123R, management believes investors may find it useful to understand how the expenses recorded as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R are reflected in its consolidated statement of earnings.
     
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)     Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) today announced revenues and earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended October 1, 2006. During fiscal 2006, the Company adopted two new accounting requirements which make the financial results for the fourth quarter and full year not comparable with the prior year. SFAS 123R, the expensing of stock compensation, was adopted at the beginning of the fiscal year and reduced earnings by $0.02 per share and $0.09 per share for the fourth quarter and the full year, respectively. FIN 47, which addresses asset retirement obligations, was adopted at the end of the fiscal year and impacted earnings by $0.02 per share in both the fourth quarter and the full year. Except where noted, the fiscal 2006 financial results reflect the reductions to earnings resulting from these accounting changes, and the results presented for the prior year do not include these expenses. These accounting changes are described in more detail on pages 7 and 8 of this release.
SEATTLE; November 16, 2006 
Fiscal Year End 2006 Highlights:
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2006 Highlights:
 
"In fiscal 2006, Starbucks continued to deliver strong operating results," commented Jim Donald, Starbucks president and ceo. "We demonstrated the strength of our business model as we opened a record number of new stores around the world, which contributed to strong top line growth, and we enhanced and expanded our product offerings through innovation and entry into new channels. We accomplished all of this through the hard work of our passionate partners who maintain a consistent focus on the needs of our customers."
Donald added, "Customer demand for the Starbucks brand remains strong in domestic and international markets and we are very excited to bring the to two new markets  Egypt and Brazil  in the first quarter of our new fiscal year. Our solid performance in fiscal 2006 also included foundational work for the future. We continued to build on our well-developed pipeline of product innovation, make meaningful progress toward Starbucks entry into several significant new markets in 2007, and explore opportunities to extend the brand outside our retail stores. We entered the new fiscal year with a continued focus on execution and meeting our aggressive financial targets."
Starbucks Experience
Consolidated Financial and Operating Summary
increased 22 percent to $1.7 billion for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, from $1.4 billion for the same period in fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily attributable to the opening of 1,040 new Company-operated retail stores in the last 12 months and comparable store sales growth of five percent for the quarter. The increase in comparable store sales was due to a four percent increase in the number of customer transactions and a one percent increase in the average value per transaction.
Company-operated retail revenues
increased 16 percent to $309 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $267 million for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. Licensing revenues increased 21 percent to $223 million primarily due to higher product sales and royalty revenues from the opening of 1,159 new licensed retail stores in the last 12 months and, to a lesser extent, growth in the licensed grocery and warehouse club business. Foodservice and other revenues increased five percent to $86 million. This increase was primarily due to growth in the U.S. foodservice business, partially offset by lower entertainment revenues which included revenue from the sales of Ray Charles' CDs outside of Starbucks retail stores in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2005.
Specialty revenues
Genius Loves Company
increased to 41.7 percent of total net revenues for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to 40.9 percent in the corresponding 13-week period of fiscal 2005. This increase was due to higher green coffee costs, a shift in retail sales mix to products with gross margins lower than beverages, and to higher utility and distribution costs, offset in part by favorable dairy costs.
Cost of sales including occupancy costs
 
as a percentage of Company-operated retail revenues increased to 42.1 percent for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, from 40.6 percent for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. This increase was primarily due to higher payroll expenditures for U.S. retail stores, including an increase in the number of assistant store managers and regional support positions in order to facilitate accelerated retail store growth. In addition, payroll-related expenditures increased due to the recognition of stock-based compensation expense.
Store operating expenses
(expenses associated with the Company's specialty operations) increased to 21.9 percent of total specialty revenues for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to 21.7 percent in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to the recognition of stock-based compensation expense.
Other operating expenses
increased to $103 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $88 million for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to the opening of 1,040 new Company-operated retail stores in the last 12 months. As a percentage of total net revenues, depreciation and amortization expenses decreased to 5.1 percent for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, from 5.3 percent for the corresponding 13-week period of fiscal 2005.
Depreciation and amortization expenses
increased to $115 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $101 million for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher payroll-related expenditures from the recognition of stock-based compensation expense and higher professional fees in support of global systems infrastructure development, partially offset by lower provisions for incentive compensation. As a percentage of total net revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased to 5.7 percent for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, from 6.1 percent for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005.
General and administrative expenses
decreased 3 percent to $28.6 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $29.5 million for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due to accounting corrections totaling $4.1 million related to two international joint venture markets. This was partially offset by favorable volume-driven results for The North American Coffee Partnership, which produces bottled Frappuccino and Starbucks DoubleShot coffee drinks.
Income from equity investees
was $198 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $197 million for the corresponding 13-week period of fiscal 2005. Operating margin decreased to 9.9 percent of total net revenues for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to 11.8 percent for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005, primarily due to the recognition of stock-based compensation and higher store operating expenses. Excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense, the operating margin was 11.2 percent.
Operating income
 
for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006 resulted in an effective tax rate of 33.2 percent, compared to 38.1 percent for the corresponding 13-week period of fiscal 2005. The effective tax rate in the current period was lower than normal due to recognition of the full-year benefit of a shift in the mix of profitability to lower-tax international markets and increased effectiveness of the Company's long-term tax planning strategies as well as several favorable audit settlements, closures and adjustments. In addition, there was a valuation allowance recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 which resulted in a higher effective tax rate in that period.
Income taxes
Financial Statements
This press release includes consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year end 2006. The consolidated balance sheets and statements of cash flows usually presented here will be presented in the Company's Form 10-K.
Fiscal 2007 Targets
Looking ahead, fiscal 2007 targets include the opening of approximately 2,400 net new stores on a global basis, total net revenue growth of approximately 20 percent, comparable store sales growth in the range of three percent to seven percent and earnings per share in the range of $0.87 per share to $0.89 per share for the fiscal year.
Starbucks will be holding a conference call today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman, Jim Donald, president and ceo, and Michael Casey, executive vice president and chief financial officer. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the Company's web site address of http://investor.starbucks.com. A replay of the call will be available via telephone through 5:30 p.m. Pacific Time on Thursday, November 23, 2006, by calling 1-800-642-1687, reservation number 3728606. A posting of speaker remarks and a replay of the call will also be available via the Investor Relations page on Starbucks.com through approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Thursday, December 14, 2006, at the following URL: http://investor.starbucks.com.
The Company's consolidated statements of earnings, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications. This information should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release. Please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 16, 2005, for additional information.
 
 
 
 
 
Stock Compensation Expense
Effective October 3, 2005, the beginning of Starbucks first fiscal quarter of 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123R "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R requires all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the statement of earnings based on their fair values. The Company adopted this accounting treatment using the modified prospective transition method, as permitted under SFAS 123R; therefore results for prior periods have not been restated. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company accounted for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations. Accordingly, stock-based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure in the financial statement footnotes. The Company is providing the table below because management believes it provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's results of operations by separately identifying the stock-based compensation expense and providing reported amounts on a basis comparable to that used in prior periods. In addition, the Company's internal reporting and budgeting, as well as the calculation of its incentive compensation payments, excludes stock-based compensation expense from reported amounts. The amounts shown in the column below entitled "Using Previous Accounting" are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under applicable SEC rules because they exclude the stock-based payment expense that is included in the directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States, which are shown in the column entitled "As Reported." These non-GAAP financial measures are not a substitute for the reported GAAP measures.
The application of SFAS 123R had the following effect on reported amounts for the 13 and 52 weeks ended October 1, 2006 relative to the amounts that would have been reported using the intrinsic value method under the Company's previous accounting ():
in thousands, except earnings per share
 
Accounting Change  FIN 47
Effective October 1, 2006, the last day of its fiscal year, Starbucks adopted FASB Interpretation No. 47 ("FIN 47"), "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations  An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143." FIN 47 requires the recognition of a liability for the estimated fair value of a legally required conditional asset retirement obligation ("ARO") when incurred, if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated, along with an associated offsetting capital asset. The Company's ARO liabilities are primarily associated with the future costs of removing leasehold improvements at the termination of its leases. Previously, these expenses were recorded as they were incurred when leases were terminated; now these costs will be estimated at the inception of each applicable lease and the expense will be recognized over the expected lease term. The cumulative catch up amount recorded of $17.2 million, net of tax, represents the total amount of liability accretion expense and related depreciation expense that would have been recorded in all prior years as if the new accounting guidance had always been in effect. FIN 47 requires that the cumulative approach to adoption be used, rather than retrospectively revising prior year financials.
 
Segment Results
Segment information is prepared on the basis that the Company's management reviews financial information for operational decision-making purposes. The tables below present operating segment results net of intersegment eliminations for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006
(in thousands):
 
 
The tables below present operating segment results net of intersegment eliminations for the 52 weeks ended October 1, 2006 (
in thousands):
 
 
United States
United States total net revenues increased by $242 million, or 18 percent, to $1.6 billion for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $1.4 billion for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. United States Company-operated retail revenues increased by $212 million, or 18 percent, to $1.4 billion, primarily due to the opening of 801 new Company-operated retail stores in the last 12 months and comparable store sales growth of five percent for the quarter. The increase in comparable store sales was due to a four percent increase in the number of customer transactions and a one percent increase in the average value per transaction.
Total United States specialty revenues increased by $30 million, or 14 percent, to $247 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $216 million in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. United States licensing revenues increased 20 percent to $168 million from $140 million in fiscal 2005 primarily due to higher product sales and royalty revenues as a result of opening 733 new licensed retail stores in the last 12 months and, to a lesser extent, growth in the licensed grocery and warehouse club business. United States foodservice and other revenues increased by three percent to $78 million, from $76 million in fiscal 2005. This increase was primarily due to growth in new and existing foodservice accounts, partially offset by lower entertainment revenues which included revenue from the sales of Ray Charles' CDs outside of Starbucks retail stores in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2005.
Genius Loves Company
United States operating income increased by three percent to $246 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, from $239 million for the same period in fiscal 2005. Operating margin decreased to 15.2 percent of related revenues from 17.3 percent in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily due to higher store operating expenses, the recognition of stock-based compensation expense and higher cost of sales including occupancy. The higher store operating expenses were primarily due to higher payroll expenditures for U.S. retail stores, including an increase in the number of assistant store managers and regional support positions in order to facilitate accelerated retail store growth. Cost of sales including occupancy increased primarily due to higher green coffee costs, a shift in retail sales mix to products with gross margins lower than beverages, as well as higher utility and distribution costs, offset in part by favorable dairy costs.
International
International total net revenues increased by $102 million, or 36 percent, to $381 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $279 million for the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. International Company-operated retail revenues increased by $90 million, or 39 percent, to $319 million, primarily due to the opening of 239 new Company-operated retail stores in the last 12 months and comparable store sales growth of eight percent for the quarter. The increase in comparable store sales resulted from a five percent increase in the number of customer transactions coupled with a three percent increase in the average value per transaction.
Total international specialty revenues increased by $12 million, or 24 percent, to $62 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $50 million in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher product sales and royalty revenues from opening 426 licensed retail stores in the last 12 months and sales of ready-to-drink coffee beverages in Japan, Taiwan and Korea.
International operating income decreased by seven percent to $28 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $30 million in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. Operating margin decreased to 7.4 percent of related revenues from a record fourth-quarter high 10.9 percent in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. This decrease was primarily due to lower reported income from the Company's equity investees, higher store operating expenses, as well as higher other operating expenses, offset in part by lower cost of sales including occupancy costs. The decrease in equity investee income was primarily due to accounting corrections totaling $4.1 million related to two international joint venture markets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The increase in store operating expenses and other operating expenses was due to higher payroll expenditures primarily to support global expansion as well as the recognition of stock-based compensation expense. The decrease in cost of sales including occupancy costs was due primarily to leverage gained from fixed costs distributed over an expanded revenue base, as well as favorable dairy costs, offset in part by higher green coffee costs.
 
Unallocated Corporate
Unallocated corporate expenses increased to $77 million for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006, compared to $73 million in the corresponding period of fiscal 2005. The increase was due to higher payroll-related expenditures from the recognition of stock-based compensation expense and to additional employees as well as higher professional fees primarily in support of global systems infrastructure development. These increases were offset by lower provisions for incentive compensation and lower charitable contributions. Total unallocated corporate expenses as a percentage of total net revenues was 3.8 percent for the 13 weeks ended October 1, 2006 and 4.4 percent for the 13 weeks ended October 2, 2005.
Store Data
The Company's store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
Through the dedication of our passionate partners (employees), Starbucks Coffee Company has transformed the way people in 37 countries enjoy their coffee, one cup at a time. Starbucks is the premier purveyor of the finest coffee in the world, with more than 12,000 retail locations in North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and the Pacific Rim. The Company is committed to offering its customers the highest quality coffee and human connection through the Starbucks Experience, while striving to improve the social, environmental and economic well being of its partners, coffee farmers, countries of coffee origin, and the communities which it serves. Through Ethos Water, Starbucks demonstrates its long history of integrating a social conscience into all aspects of its business. The Company surprises and delights its customers by producing and selling bottled Starbucks Frappuccino coffee drinks, Starbucks DoubleShot espresso drinks and Starbucks superpremium ice creams through its joint-venture partnerships, and Starbucks Coffee and Cream Liqueurs through a marketing and distribution agreement, in other convenient locations outside its retail operations. The Company's brand portfolio includes superpremium Tazo teas, Starbucks Hear Music compact discs, Seattle's Best Coffee and Torrefazione Italia. These brands' unique and innovative personalities allow Starbucks to appeal to a broad consumer base.
This release includes forward-looking statements regarding trends in or expectations regarding: store openings, comparable store sales, net revenue, and earnings per share results. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability, successful execution of internal performance and expansion plans, fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies, the impact of initiatives by competitors, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2005. The Company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
2006 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved.


