FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20070904191707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
 
 
          Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
          On August 30, 2007, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") approved stock ownership guidelines for executive officers of the Company with a title of executive vice president or above, effective September 4, 2007. The purpose of the guidelines is to ensure that executives have a long-term equity stake in Starbucks. The guidelines require executives to have made a minimum investment in Starbucks stock within five years. Minimum investment levels for each job title are:
          The unrealized value of vested, in-the-money stock options counts for up to 25% of the required minimum investment. Unrealized value is measured as the difference between aggregate exercise price and aggregate market value of underlying shares, calculated as of any measurement date made for the purpose of calculating compliance with the guidelines. Shares held prior to the effective date of the guidelines also count toward satisfying the investment requirement, and are valued at the closing market price of the shares on September 4, 2007. The committee will monitor each executive's progress toward the minimum investment on an annual basis. If an executive is promoted to a position with a higher minimum investment requirement, he or she must still make the initial required investment within five years and the Compensation Committee will determine the appropriate amount of additional time to make the incremental investment.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


