FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20091204170044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On December 1, 2009, Starbucks Corporation ("Starbucks" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Martin Coles has left the Company, effective immediately. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(e) On November 30, 2009, Starbucks entered into a Separation Agreement and Release (the "Agreement") with Martin Coles, the Company's former president, Starbucks Coffee International. In accordance with the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Coles will receive a lump sum payment equal to twelve months of his base salary, subject to customary tax and other withholdings. The Agreement also provides that: (i) the Company will provide Mr. Coles with a lump sum payment equal to the cost of COBRA continuation coverage under the applicable Starbucks medical, dental and vision programs for a period of twelve months, less applicable withholding taxes, (ii) Mr. Coles' vested stock options will expire or be exercisable pursuant to the terms and conditions of the applicable plan documents, (iii) Mr. Coles' participation in all equity compensation, incentive compensation and all other compensation and benefits plans, programs and agreements will terminate effective as of his separation from the Company, (iv) the Company will provide Mr. Coles with twelve months of outplacement services up to a maximum of $14,000, and (v) Mr. Coles is not entitled to any compensation or benefits from and after his separation from the Company, except as provided in the Agreement, the terms of the Starbucks 401(k) Plan or the Management Deferred Compensation Plan. In the Agreement, Mr. Coles also provided a general release of claims against the Company, agreed to certain confidentiality obligations and reaffirmed his obligations under a non-competition agreement with the Company.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
SEATTLE; December 1, 2009 Starbucks Coffee Company (NASDAQ: SBUX) today named John Culver as President, Starbucks Coffee International. He will oversee the operations and business development for all markets outside the U.S. and have Starbucks five regional leaders reporting to him. Culver succeeds Martin Coles, who today resigned to pursue new opportunities.
"I want to personally thank Martin for his efforts and many contributions during his six years of service, particularly those in support of our transformation agenda over the past 18 months," said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo. "We all wish Martin great success in the future."
"With our U.S. business moving in the right direction, now is the time to re-accelerate growth of our international business. John's experience and success leading our Asia Pacific region, his deep coffee industry knowledge and his strong leadership skills combine to make him the ideal leader for Starbucks Coffee International today. I am excited to work closely with John as I expand the focus of my activities to include aggressive pursuit and development of our global business opportunities," added Schultz.
Culver has been with Starbucks for seven years, most recently serving as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice. Prior to this role, he held a variety of positions including general manager, Foodservice and president, Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific. Before joining Starbucks, Culver was vice president of sales for Nestl USA where he was responsible for foodservice sales and the development of more than 30 brands.
Michelle Gass, recently named president of Seattle's Best Coffee, will take on additional responsibilities as interim president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice. A search will begin immediately to find a permanent leader for the CPG and Foodservice organization.
About Starbucks
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with nearly 16,000 stores in 51 countries, our company is the premiere roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup.
arabica
Starbucks Experience


