FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20091105162439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 5, 2009, Starbucks Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 27, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2009 Highlights:
Full Fiscal Year 2009 Highlights:
SEATTLE; November 5, 2009  Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 27, 2009 and increased its FY10 earnings outlook based on improving same store sales trends and the increasing impact of its cost savings efforts.
"Starbucks strong performance in Q4 and fiscal 2009 overall is the result of our successful efforts to improve our customer and partner experiences, the initiatives and innovations we have introduced over the past 18 months and the significant, permanent changes we have made to our cost structure," said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo. "We are seeing broad-based improvement across our global business, and are cautiously optimistic about the upcoming holiday period," added Schultz.
"Improving top line trends, coupled with a disciplined operational focus in both our stores and our support organization, position us well for long-term, profitable growth," commented Troy Alstead, executive vice president and cfo. "As a result, we are increasing our non-GAAP EPS outlook for fiscal year 2010 to a range of 15% to 20% growth over fiscal 2009."
 
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2009 Summary
Consolidated company revenues for Q409 were $2.4 billion, compared to $2.5 billion in Q408. The revenue decline resulted primarily from the impact of foreign currency translation related to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to UK and Canadian currencies, 385 net fewer company-operated stores open in Q409 compared to Q408, and a 1% decline in consolidated comparable store sales.
Non-GAAP Q409 operating income totaled $252.6 million, representing non-GAAP operating margin expansion of 570 basis points to 10.4%. This improvement was driven by cost savings initiatives implemented throughout the organization, culminating in Q409 savings of approximately $210 million. The majority of these savings are the result of in-store operating improvements focused on labor efficiencies and reduced product waste, and lower non-store support costs. These improvements were partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses, related to higher performance-based compensation expenses in the quarter. Results for both years exclude restructuring charges as well as other transformation charges in fiscal 2008.
Restructuring charges of $53.2 million for the quarter were nearly all due to lease exit and other costs associated with the closure of U.S. and International company-operated stores. Starbucks actions to rationalize its global store portfolio included plans to close approximately 800 company-operated stores in the U.S., restructure the company's business in Australia, and close approximately 100 additional International company-operated stores. At the end of fiscal 2009, nearly all of the approximately 800 U.S. stores, 61 stores in Australia and 40 stores in other International markets had been closed. The remaining International store closures are expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2010, with related lease exit costs expected to be recognized concurrently with the actual closures.
Restructuring Charges
 
Q4 U.S. Segment Results
 
Net revenues were $1.7 billion in Q409 compared to $1.8 billion in Q408, with the decline due to decreased revenues from fewer company-operated retail stores. U.S. comparable store sales declined 1%, due to a decrease in the number of transactions.
Non-GAAP U.S. operating income for Q409 was $206.8 million compared to $79.5 million for the same period a year ago. Non-GAAP operating margin expanded to 12.0% in Q409 compared to 4.4% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2008. The margin increase was driven by the implementation of initiatives to increase labor efficiency and reduce product waste, as well as lower non-store support costs. Lower dairy commodity costs also contributed to the operating margin improvement.
Q4 International Segment Results
Net revenues were $513.6 million in Q409 compared to $533.6 million in Q408, with the decline primarily due to the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar relative to the British pound and Canadian dollar.
Non-GAAP operating income increased to $45.2 million in Q409 compared to $21.8 million for the same period a year ago, with the related non-GAAP operating margin expanding 470 basis points to 8.8% from 4.1% in Q408. The margin increase was driven by lower cost of sales including occupancy costs primarily related to controlled discretionary spending, and to operational improvements to reduce food and dairy waste.
 
Q4 Global Consumer Products Group Segment Results
 
Net revenues were $188.1 million in Q409 compared to $191.1 million in Q408. This decrease was due to lower foodservice revenues caused by continued softness in the hospitality industry, partially offset by higher revenues from packaged coffee.
Operating income for the CPG segment improved to $92.8 million in Q409 from $84.0 million in Q408, reflecting growth of 10%. Operating margin increased 530 basis points to 49.3% of net revenues, with the improvement due primarily to reduced expenses in the U.S. Foodservice business and lower marketing expenses compared to Q408, which included the launch of ready-to-drink products in Japan. Higher income from equity investees also contributed to the year-over-year improvement.
Fiscal 2009  Year in Review
For fiscal 2009, consolidated net revenues decreased 6% to $9.8 billion from $10.4 billion in fiscal 2008, predominantly due to lower U.S. company-operated retail revenues. Company-operated retail revenues in fiscal 2009 declined 7% to $8.2 billion from $8.8 billion in fiscal 2008, primarily due to a 6% decline in comparable store sales and the effects of a stronger U.S. dollar relative to the British pound and Canadian dollar. The decline in consolidated comparable store sales was driven by a 6% decline in the U.S. segment.
Non-GAAP operating income was $894.4 million and non-GAAP operating margin was 9.2%, an expansion of 110 basis points from the prior year. This improvement was primarily due to operational changes designed to improve labor efficiency and reduce product waste in company-operated stores, and to lower non-store support costs. Cost savings initiatives for the full year delivered approximately $580 million, exceeding the original target by approximately $180 million. The higher level of actual savings was largely due to earlier than expected results from the initiatives that were put in place over the course of the year.
Starbucks strong operating cash flow of $1.4 billion, combined with lower capital expenditures due to disciplined store growth during the year, resulted in free cash flow of over $900 million for fiscal 2009. The company had no short term debt at the end of the year, and had cash and liquid investments totaling more than $650 million.
Liquidity
 
Fiscal 2010 Targets
Starbucks has set the following financial and operational targets for fiscal 2010:
Conference Call
Starbucks will be holding a conference call today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo, and Troy Alstead, executive vice president and chief financial officer. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the company's web site address of http://investor.starbucks.com. A replay of the call will be available via telephone through 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Monday, November 9, 2009, by calling 1-800-642-1687, reservation number 61844426. A replay of the call will also be available via the Investor Relations page on Starbucks.com through approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, December 4, 2009, at the following URL: http://investor.starbucks.com.
The company's consolidated statements of earnings, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications. This information should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release. Please refer to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2008, and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal 2009, for additional information.
About Starbucks
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality arabica coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at .
Starbucks Experience
www.starbucks.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to certain company initiatives, strategies and plans, as well as trends in or expectations regarding, the effects of company initiatives, earnings per share, store openings and closings, cost savings, operating margins, restructuring charges, cash from operations, capital expenditures, free cash flow and the cyclical nature of the business. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability, successful execution of the company's initiatives, fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies, the impact of competition, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the company filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2008. The company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
Segment Results
The tables below present reportable segment results net of intersegment eliminations
(in millions):
United States
 
International
 
Global CPG
Unallocated Corporate
 
 
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2009 Store Data
The company's store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
Fiscal 2009 Store Reconciliation
 
Non-GAAP Disclosure
In addition to the GAAP results provided in this release, the company provides non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS), as well as free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) are operating income, operating margin and diluted net earnings per share, respectively. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to free cash flow is cash flow from operations (or net cash provided by operating activities).
The non-GAAP financial measures provided in this release for fiscal 2009, other than free cash flow, exclude restructuring charges, primarily related to company-operated store closures and the impacts of workforce reductions. The non-GAAP financial measures provided in this release for fiscal 2008 exclude restructuring charges, primarily related to company-operated store closures and the impacts of workforce reductions, and costs related to the company's transformation efforts during fiscal 2008 consisting primarily of charges related to slowing the pace of U.S. store openings and the associated termination of future site commitments, related inventory and store assets. Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures (or net additions to property, plant and equipment). The company's management believes that providing these non-GAAP financial measures better enables investors to understand and evaluate the company's historical and prospective operating performance. More specifically, for historical non-GAAP financial measures other than free cash flow, management excludes each of those items mentioned above because it believes that these costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the company's future operating performance or comparisons to the company's past operating performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the company's results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than the company does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.
 
 
 2009 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved.


