FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20101104161002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 4, 2010, Starbucks Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended October 3, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
SEATTLE; November 4, 2010  Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) today reported financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended October 3, 2010, periods that included 14 weeks and 53 weeks, respectively, as fiscal 2010 contained an extra week. The company also updated its FY11 targets.
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2010 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Full-Year 2010 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"I am delighted with the record fourth quarter and full year results we announced today. These results are a credit to the hard work and dedication of Starbucks partners around the world every day, and are particularly gratifying in light of the formidable economic challenges that our customers and we continue to confront in virtually every country and every market in which we operate" said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo. "But beyond the story told by our financial performance, 2010 was a year of tremendous development and progress for Starbucks on many other fronts as well."
"In 2010, we continued to improve our customer experience, further leverage our coffee authority, differentiate Starbucks from competitors and forge deeper connections with consumers around the world through our loyalty program and social and digital media efforts. At the same time, we continued to innovate. Our emerging brands like Starbucks VIA Ready Brew and Seattle's Best Coffee have become a part of the daily routine for millions of consumers. And we have made great strides in our efforts to expand our products and brands in multiple CPG channels. The spirit and sense of urgency that emanated from our transformational journey over the past few years continues unabated. I am convinced that we are about to enter an era of even more opportunity for Starbucks, and am more convinced than ever that our future has never looked brighter," added Schultz.
"We completed fiscal 2010 with strong momentum throughout our business. Meaningful same store sales growth, coupled with the stronger financial discipline we have adopted within the organization, delivered the excellent results we reported, leaving us well positioned for our next stage of profitable growth," commented Troy Alstead, cfo. "The strong margin improvement we achieved in our U.S. and International businesses reflects the hard work of our partners throughout the organization delivering top line growth while also driving efficiencies in our operations. As a result of Starbucks strong fiscal 2010 performance and the momentum we carried into the new fiscal year, we are increasing our EPS outlook for fiscal 2011 to a range of $1.41 to $1.47, representing 15% to 20% growth over fiscal 2010 non-GAAP EPS on a 52-week basis."
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 Summary
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated net revenues were $2.8 billion for Q4 FY10, an increase of 17% over Q4 FY09. The increase was primarily due to the extra week in FY10 and an 8% increase in global comparable stores sales. Net revenues increased approximately 9% when calculated on a comparative 13-week basis for both Q4 fiscal 2010 and 2009.
Non-GAAP operating income for Q4 FY10 totaled $405.7 million, representing a non-GAAP operating margin expansion of 390 basis points to 14.3%. This improvement was primarily due to increased sales leverage and continued benefits from operational efficiencies.
Restructuring Charges
Restructuring charges of $6.4 million for the quarter were related to lease exit and other costs associated with the closure of company-operated stores in international markets. With the previously-announced store closures essentially complete, this will be the final quarter in which Starbucks will be reporting restructuring costs related to these activities.
Segment Results
Effective in Q4 FY10, the company realigned its reporting segments by including Seattle's Best Coffee results along with unallocated corporate expenses and Digital Ventures within Other. Previously, components of Seattle's Best Coffee were included in the U.S., International and Global Consumer Products (CPG) segments. Prior periods have been reclassified for comparability.
Q4 U.S. Segment Results
 
U.S. net revenues were $2.0 billion in Q4 FY10, an increase of 15% over Q4 FY09. The increase was due to the extra week in FY10 and an 8% increase in comparable store sales, comprised of a 6% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in the average value per transaction. Net revenues increased approximately 7% when calculated on a comparative 13-week basis for both Q4 fiscal 2010 and 2009.
U.S. non-GAAP operating income for Q4 FY10 was $343.3 million compared to $206.6 million for the same period a year ago. Non-GAAP operating margin expanded to 17.4% in Q4 FY10 compared to 12.1% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2009. The margin expansion was primarily due to increased sales leverage and continued benefits from operational efficiencies.
 
 
 
Q4 International Segment Results
 
International net revenues were $619.3 million in Q4 FY10, an increase of 21% over Q4 FY09. The increase was due to the extra week in FY10, a 7% increase in comparable store sales, comprised of a 4% increase in the number of transactions and a 3% increase in the average value per transaction, and the effect of consolidating the company's previous joint venture operations in France. Net revenues increased approximately 12% when calculated on a comparative 13-week basis for both Q4 fiscal 2010 and 2009.
International non-GAAP operating income increased to $91.0 million in Q4 FY10, compared to $44.7 million for the same period a year ago, with the related non-GAAP operating margin expanding 600 basis points to 14.7% from 8.7% in Q4 FY09. The margin increase was primarily driven by sales leverage on occupancy costs and supply chain efficiencies.
Q4 Global Consumer Products Group Segment Results
 
CPG net revenues were $201.3 million in Q4 FY10, an increase of 19% over Q4 FY09. The increase was primarily due to the extra week in FY10 and to the impact of the ongoing launch of Starbucks VIA in the CPG channel. Net revenues increased approximately 10% when calculated on a comparative 13-week basis for both Q4 fiscal 2010 and 2009.
Operating income for the CPG segment was $79.3 million in Q4 FY10 compared to $88.0 million in Q4 FY09, with the operating margin decreasing to 39.4% of net revenues from 52.0% in the prior-year period, due in part to increased Starbucks VIA launch expenses.
 
 
 
Full-Year Fiscal 2010 Financial Results
 
 
Share Repurchase
In the fourth quarter, Starbucks repurchased 4.5 million shares of its common stock for a total of $112 million. For the full fiscal year 2010, the company repurchased 11.2 million shares of its common stock for a total of $285 million.
Dividend Declaration
Starbucks Corporation Board of Directors has declared a $0.13 per share cash dividend to its shareholders of record as of November 18, 2010, which will be paid on December 3, 2010.
Fiscal 2011 Targets
Starbucks has reiterated the following fiscal 2011 targets introduced on July 21, 2010:
 
 
The company has revised the following fiscal 2011 targets introduced on July 21, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
Starbucks will be holding a conference call today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo and Troy Alstead, cfo. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the company's web site address of . A replay of the call will be available via telephone through 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time on November 8, 2010 by calling 1-800-642-1687, reservation number 80745717. A replay of the call will also be available via the Investor Relations page on Starbucks.com through approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, December 3, 2010 at the following URL: .
http://investor.starbucks.com
http://investor.starbucks.com
The company's consolidated statements of earnings, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications. This information should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release. Please refer to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2009 for additional information.
About Starbucks
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at .
arabica
Starbucks Experience
www.starbucks.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to certain company initiatives and plans, as well as trends in or expectations regarding, earnings per share, revenues, operating margins, comparable store sales, store openings and closings, restructuring charges, cash flow from operations, capital expenditures, free cash flow, and commodity costs. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability, costs associated with, and the successful execution of, the company's initiatives, fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies, the impact of competition, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2009. The company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
The tables below present reportable segment results net of intersegment eliminations
(in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2010 Store Data
The company's store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
Non-GAAP Disclosure
In addition to the GAAP results provided in this release, the company provides non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS), as well as free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) are operating income, operating margin, and diluted net earnings per share, respectively. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to free cash flow is cash flow from operations (or net cash provided by operating activities).
The non-GAAP financial measures provided in this release, other than free cash flow, exclude restructuring charges, primarily related to company-operated store closures and, with respect to non-GAAP financial measures for fiscal 2009, the impacts of workforce reductions. Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures (or net additions to property, plant and equipment). The company's management believes that providing these non-GAAP financial measures better enables investors to understand and evaluate the company's historical and prospective operating performance. More specifically, for historical non-GAAP financial measures other than free cash flow, management excludes each of those items mentioned above because it believes that these costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the company's future operating performance or comparisons to the company's past operating performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the company's results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than the company does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
 2010 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved.
 


