FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20100721161457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 21, 2010, Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 27, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On July 21, 2010, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has approved a cash dividend to its shareholders of $0.13 per share. The cash dividend will be paid on August 20, 2010 to shareholders of record on the close of business on August 4, 2010. A copy of the press release announcing the dividend is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SEATTLE; July 21, 2010  Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) today reported financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended June 27, 2010, updated FY10 targets, and introduced FY11 targets.
Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Starbucks third quarter results reflect a continuation of the strong performance and momentum we have been driving across our businesses and around the world," said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo. "I'm particularly pleased to report that the significant Q3 increases in store traffic occurred at the same time as we posted the highest levels of customer satisfaction in Starbucks history and despite the challenging global economic environment. Strong performance is enabling us to deliver record results and increase the dividend to shareholders while continuing to innovate and invest in our businesses."
"Supported by the most significant marketing investment in the company's history, in Q3 we successfully launched Starbucks VIA into the grocery channel in the U.S., announced upcoming launches in the grocery channel in Japan and the U.K., brought innovation to the blended beverage category and reenergized our $2 billion Frappuccino beverage platform by creating real consumer and retailer excitement in this important growth category. Our Q3 investments provide us with a very solid foundation for growth in fiscal 2011 and beyond," added Schultz.
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2010 Summary
 
 
 
Consolidated net revenues for Q3 FY10 were $2.6 billion, compared to $2.4 billion in Q3 FY09. The higher revenues were primarily driven by a 9% increase in global comparable stores sales.
Non-GAAP operating income for Q3 FY10 totaled $348.1 million, representing a non-GAAP operating margin expansion of 270 basis points to 13.3%. This improvement was primarily due to increased sales leverage and continued benefits from operational efficiencies. These improvements were partially offset by higher marketing expenses for Starbucks VIA and the new customizable Frappuccino blended beverages.
Restructuring Charges
Restructuring charges of $20.4 million for the quarter were primarily related to continued softness in the commercial real estate market, which impacted the expense recognition for stores that were previously closed in the U.S., but for which the company has remaining lease obligations.
 
Q3 U.S. Segment Results
 
U.S. net revenues were $1.9 billion in Q3 FY10, an increase of 7% over Q3 FY09. The increase was due to a 9% increase in comparable store sales, comprised of a 6% increase in the number of transactions and a 3% increase in the average value per transaction, partially offset by the net closure of 144 underperforming company-operated stores over the last 12 months.
U.S. non-GAAP operating income for Q3 FY10 was $307.8 million compared to $226.5 million for the same period a year ago. Non-GAAP operating margin expanded to 16.5% in Q3 FY10 compared to 13.0% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2009. The margin expansion was primarily due to comparable store sales growth creating increased sales leverage, combined with ongoing supply chain efficiencies.
Q3 International Segment Results
 
International net revenues were $551.1 million in Q3 FY10 compared to $477.4 million in Q3 FY09, with the increase driven by a 6% increase in comparable store sales, the effect of consolidating the company's previous joint venture operations in France, and the impact of foreign currency translation related to a stronger Canadian dollar. The increase in comparable store sales consisted of a 4% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in the average value per transaction.
International non-GAAP operating income increased to $60.2 million in Q3 FY10, compared to $38.9 million for the same period a year ago, with the related non-GAAP operating margin expanding 280 basis points to 10.9% from 8.1% in Q3 FY09. The margin increase was primarily driven by sales leverage on occupancy costs and supply chain efficiencies.
 
Q3 Global Consumer Products Group Segment Results
 
Net revenues were $197.9 million in Q3 FY10 compared to $182.8 million in Q3 FY09. This increase was due to the launch of Starbucks VIA Ready Brew, increased sales into the packaged coffee channel, and sales of Seattle's Best Coffee in the foodservice channel. Operating income for the CPG segment was $60.1 million in Q3 FY10 compared to $65.7 million in Q3 FY09, while the operating margin decreased to 30.4% of net revenues from 35.9% in the prior-year period, primarily due to increased marketing expenses related to the launch of Starbucks VIA Ready Brew in the grocery channel.
YTD Financial Results
 
Fiscal 2010 Targets
Starbucks has updated the following fiscal 2010 targets:
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2011 Targets
Starbucks has announced its fiscal 2011 targets as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
Starbucks will be holding a conference call today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo and Troy Alstead, executive vice president and cfo. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the company's web site address of http://investor.starbucks.com. A replay of the call will be available via telephone through 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, July 23, 2010, by calling 1-800-642-1687, reservation number 49543146. A replay of the call will also be available via the Investor Relations page on Starbucks.com through approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, August 20, 2010, at the following URL: http://investor.starbucks.com.
The company's consolidated statements of earnings, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications. This information should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release. Please refer to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2009 for additional information.
About Starbucks
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at .
arabica
Starbucks Experience
www.starbucks.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to certain company initiatives and plans, as well as trends in or expectations regarding, earnings per share, revenues, operating margins, comparable store sales, store openings and closings, restructuring charges, cash flow from operations, capital expenditures, free cash flow, and commodity costs. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability, successful execution of the company's initiatives, fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies, the impact of competition, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2009. The company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
The tables below present reportable segment results net of intersegment eliminations (in millions):
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Store Data
The company's store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
Non-GAAP Disclosure
In addition to the GAAP results provided in this release, the company provides non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS), as well as free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) are operating income, operating margin, net earnings, and diluted net earnings per share, respectively. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to free cash flow is cash flow from operations (or net cash provided by operating activities).
The non-GAAP financial measures provided in this release, other than free cash flow, exclude restructuring charges, primarily related to company-operated store closures and, with respect to non-GAAP financial measures for fiscal 2009, the impacts of workforce reductions. Free cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures (or net additions to property, plant and equipment). The company's management believes that providing these non-GAAP financial measures better enables investors to understand and evaluate the company's historical and prospective operating performance. More specifically, for historical non-GAAP financial measures other than free cash flow, management excludes each of those items mentioned above because it believes that these costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the company's future operating performance or comparisons to the company's past operating performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the company's results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than the company does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.
 
 
 2010 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Starbucks Corporation (Nasdaq: SBUX) Board of Directors has declared an increased cash dividend to its shareholders. The quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share, an increase of 30 percent from $0.10 per share, will be paid on August 20, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 4, 2010.
SEATTLE; July 21, 2010 
"Given the continued strength of our business, as evidenced by record third-quarter earnings and the resulting strong cash flow, we have increased our quarterly cash dividend," said Troy Alstead, executive vice president and cfo. "Our commitment to returning value to our shareholders is demonstrated in both the increased cash dividend and the repurchase of 6.7 million shares of Starbucks common stock in the third quarter."
About Starbucks
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at .
arabica
Starbucks Experience
www.starbucks.com


