FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20110113171857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 7, 2011, Barbara Bass, a member of the Board of Directors of Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") since 1996, notified the Board of Directors of her intention not to stand for re-election at the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Ms. Bass's distinguished service on the Board of Directors includes serving as the Chair of the Compensation and Management Development Committee since 2003. "I'd like to personally thank Barbara for her countless contributions and distinguished service on the Board of Directors for the past 15 years," stated Howard Schultz, Starbucks chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We wish her the best of luck in her future endeavors."
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is the letter from Ms. Bass to Mr. Schultz dated January 7, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

January 7, 2011
Howard Schultz, Chairman & CEO
Starbucks Corporation
2401 Utah Ave. S.
Seattle, WA 98134
Dear Howard:
It is with great sadness that I must, for family reasons, not stand for reelection to the Starbucks Board of Directors. For the past 15 years, it has been my great privilege to serve on the Board and to be part of the growth and transformation of the Starbucks Corporation. Under your visionary leadership, Starbucks has become one of the world's most highly recognized and respected brands. With your continued leadership, and with the Company's exceptionally talented Leadership Team, I am confident that Starbucks will continue to grow and prosper in the years ahead. I wish you, your management team and the thousands of dedicated Starbucks partners worldwide, much continued success.
 
 


