FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20110728161102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 28, 2011, Starbucks Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended July 3, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 28, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
SEATTLE; July 28, 2011  Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) today reported financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended July 3, 2011 and introduced FY12 targets.
Fiscal Third Quarter 2011 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Starbucks record third quarter results reflect both the underlying strength and continuing momentum we have been experiencing across all of our business segments and around the world," said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo. "These results demonstrate the power, and the extraordinary global potential, of our unique new business model. Starbucks has never been healthier, more connected to our customers and partners, or better positioned to go after the tremendous business opportunities that lie ahead," Schultz added.
"The exceptional results that we reported today for our fiscal third quarter are a testament to the strength of the Starbucks brand, to the depth of the company's organizational capabilities, and to the dedication of our partners around the world," commented Troy Alstead, cfo. "Efforts to enhance the store experience continue to resonate with our customers as strong traffic gains and sales leverage helped mitigate the impact of higher commodity costs. With our global store portfolio performing at record levels and momentum building in CPG, we have a solid foundation in place to pursue continued profitable growth in fiscal 2012 and beyond. As we build upon the strength of the brand and our evolving multi-channel strategy, we expect to drive growth in earnings per share in fiscal 2012 in the range of 15 to 20 percent."
 
 
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Summary
 
 
 
See the reconciliation of selected GAAP measures to Non-GAAP measures at the end of this document for further detail.
Consolidated net revenues were $2.9 billion for Q3 FY11, an increase of 12% over Q3 FY10. The increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in global comparable stores sales and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange. The 8% increase in comparable store sales was comprised of a 6% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket.
Operating income for Q3 FY11 totaled $402.2 million, representing operating margin expansion of 120 basis points to 13.7%. This improvement was primarily due to increased sales leverage, partially offset by higher commodity costs. The increase in commodity costs, primarily coffee, negatively impacted operating margin in the quarter by approximately 280 basis points and EPS by $0.07.
Q3 U.S. Segment Results
 
 
See the reconciliation of selected GAAP measures to Non-GAAP measures at the end of this document for further detail.
U.S. net revenues were $2.0 billion in Q3 FY11, an increase of 9% over Q3 FY10. The increase was primarily due to an 8% increase in comparable store sales, comprised of a 6% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket.
U.S. operating income for Q3 FY11 was $378.6 million compared to $292.3 million for the same period a year ago. Operating margin expanded 300 basis points to 18.8% in Q3 FY11 compared to 15.8% in the corresponding period of fiscal 2010. The margin expansion was primarily due to increased sales leverage and the absence of restructuring charges in FY11, partially offset by higher coffee costs.
 
 
 
Q3 International Segment Results
 
 
See the reconciliation of selected GAAP measures to Non-GAAP measures at the end of this document for further detail.
International net revenues were $658.5 million in Q3 FY11, an increase of 20% over Q3 FY10. The increase was due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and a 5% increase in comparable store sales. The 5% increase in comparable store sales was the result of a 4% increase in the number of transactions and a 1% increase in average ticket.
International operating income increased to $80.4 million in Q3 FY11, compared to $55.9 million for the same period a year ago, with the related operating margin expanding 200 basis points to 12.2% from 10.2% in Q3 FY10. The margin increase was primarily driven by increased sales leverage, partially offset by higher coffee costs.
Q3 Global Consumer Products Group Segment Results
 
CPG net revenues were $218.4 million in Q3 FY11, an increase of 25% over Q3 FY10. The increase was primarily due to the benefit of recognizing the full revenue from packaged coffee and tea sales under the direct distribution model.
Operating income for the CPG segment was $66.0 million in Q3 FY11 compared to $54.9 million in Q3 FY10, with the operating margin decreasing to 30.2% of net revenues from 31.5% in the prior-year period. This decrease in operating margin was primarily due to higher coffee costs, partially offset by lower marketing costs for Starbucks VIA  Ready Brew compared to the prior-year period.
 
 
 
 
YTD Financial Results
 
 
See the reconciliation of selected GAAP measures to Non-GAAP measures at the end of this document for further detail.
Fiscal 2011 Targets
Starbucks has updated the following fiscal 2011 targets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2012 Targets
Starbucks has announced its fiscal 2012 targets as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company Updates
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
Starbucks will be holding a conference call today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo, and Troy Alstead, cfo. The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the company's web site address of . A replay of the call will be available via telephone through 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, July 29, 2011 by calling 1-800-642-1687, reservation number 51273765. A replay of the call will also be available via the Investor Relations page on Starbucks.com through approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, August 26, 2011 at the following URL: .
http://investor.starbucks.com
http://investor.starbucks.com
 
 
 
The company's consolidated statements of earnings, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications. This information should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release. Please refer to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2010 for additional information.
About Starbucks
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at .
arabica
Starbucks Experience
www.starbucks.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to certain company initiatives, strategies and plans, as well as trends in or expectations regarding, earnings per share, revenues, operational improvements, changes to the organizational and leadership structures, business momentum, sales leverage, store traffic, average ticket, operating margins, profits, comparable store sales, store openings and closings, restructuring charges, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, the strength, health and potential of our business and brand, tax rate and commodity costs. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability, costs associated with, and the successful execution of, the company's initiatives, strategies and plans fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies, the impact of competition, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2010. The company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Results
The tables below present reportable segment results net of intersegment eliminations
(in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Third Quarter 2011 Store Data
The company's store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
Non-GAAP Disclosure
In addition to the GAAP results provided in this release, the company provides non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) for fiscal 2010. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) are operating income, operating margin, and diluted net earnings per share, respectively.
The non-GAAP financial measures provided in this release exclude 2010 restructuring charges, primarily related to previously-announced company-operated store closures. The company's management believes that providing these non-GAAP financial measures better enables investors to understand and evaluate the company's historical and prospective operating performance. More specifically, for historical non-GAAP financial measures, management excludes restructuring charges because it believes that these costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the company's future operating performance or comparisons to the company's past operating performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the company's results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than the company does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
2011 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved.


