FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20110505161917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of Starbucks Corporation (the "Company") increased the number of directors of the Company from 10 to 11 and elected Joshua Cooper Ramo to serve as a director of the Company. Mr. Ramo was also appointed to serve on the Company's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. A copy of the press release containing the announcement of Mr. Ramo's election is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Ramo will participate in the standard compensation plan for non-employee directors, including the new non-employee director stock option award, as described in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. There is no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which Mr. Ramo was elected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between the Company and Mr. Ramo that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
Alan Hilowitz
Starbucks Corporation
206-318-7100
press@starbucks.com
Starbucks Appoints Joshua Cooper Ramo to Board of Directors
SEATTLE; May 5, 2011 Starbucks Corporation (Nasdaq: SBUX) announced today that Joshua Cooper Ramo, Managing Director at Kissinger Associates, a business and government strategic advisory firm, was elected to the Starbucks Board of Directors on May 3. Ramo will serve on the Nominating and Corporate Governance committee.
"As we accelerate the growth of our international business, Joshua's notable experience and perspective will complement our already strong and diverse Board," said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo of Starbucks. "His expertise, especially with regard to China, will be an invaluable contribution to maintaining our global leadership and strategic competitive advantage."
Ramo, 42, has been called "one of China's leading foreign-born scholars" by the World Economic Forum, and has written several papers on China's development, which have been distributed in China and abroad. In 2008, Ramo served as China Analyst for NBC during the Summer Olympics in Beijing and shared an Emmy Award for his work at the Opening Ceremony. Prior to his current advisory role, Ramo was an award-winning journalist and Senior Editor and Foreign Editor of . Ramo is also a best-selling author of the book "The Age of the Unthinkable: Why the New World Order Constantly Surprises Us and What We Can Do About It," which has been published in nearly 20 languages.
TIME Magazine
New York Times
Ramo holds degrees from the University of Chicago and New York University, and has been a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Asia21 Leaders Program, World Economic Forum's Young Global Leaders and Global Leaders for Tomorrow, and co-founder of the U.S.  China Young Leaders Forum.
"I'm delighted to join the Starbucks Board of Directors and help chart the future of this iconic company," said Ramo. "Starbucks is an aspirational, exciting brand with unquestioned global relevance. I look forward to contributing to the next phase of the company's growth."
About Starbucks
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at www.starbucks.com.
arabica
Starbucks Experience


