FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20120726160600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 26, 2012, Starbucks Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended July 1, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SEATTLE; July 26, 2012  Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) today reported financial results for its 13-week fiscal third quarter ended July 1, 2012.
:
Fiscal Third Quarter 2012 Highlights
:
Q4 Fiscal 2012 Targets
The company has updated its Q4 FY12 revenue and EPS targets as follows:
:
Fiscal 2013 Targets
The company has introduced its initial FY13 revenue and EPS targets as follows:
Starbucks record Q3 results demonstrate the continued strength of our global business and brand, the success of multiple, highly innovative consumer packaged goods initiatives and continued acceleration of our China and Asia-Pacific operations, said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo.  Despite coming in short of our expectations I am pleased with the increasing operating leverage we are seeing, the fact that this was our 11th consecutive quarter of record results and the fact that we achieved the results in the face of high legacy commodity costs and challenging economic and consumer headwinds in key markets.  I am confident that we are operating with the discipline, flexibility and customer centricity necessary to enable us to continue driving EPS growth in excess of revenue growth over the long run, Schultz added.
While still representing earnings growth of approximately 20% over last years fourth quarter, we have lowered our expectations for Q4 FY12 earnings per share to $0.44 to $0.45 to reflect the difficult economic environment all global retailers are confronting today, commented Troy Alstead, cfo. Nonetheless, we remain confident in the underlying strength of our business, in the strategies we have in place for driving sustained, profitable growth, and in our ability to again drive earnings growth in the range of 15% - 20% in fiscal 2013.
 
 
 
 
- Page 2 -
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Summary
 
 
 
Consolidated net revenues reached a third-quarter record $3.3 billion in Q3 FY12, an increase of 13% over Q3 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to a 6% increase in global comparable stores sales and 45% revenue growth in Channel Development.  The 6% increase in comparable store sales was comprised of a 5% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket.
Consolidated operating income increased 22% to $491.6 million in Q3 FY12, compared to $402.2 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin was 14.9% in Q3 FY12, compared to 13.7% in the same period last year.  Sales leverage more than offset the increase in commodity costs, primarily coffee, which negatively impacted Q3 FY12 operating income and operating margin by approximately $38 million and 110 basis points, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Q3 Americas Segment Results
 
 
Net revenues for the Americas segment were $2.5 billion in Q3 FY12, an increase of 9% over Q3 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, including a 5% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket.  Additionally, licensed store revenue growth of approximately 24% contributed to the Americas segment results.
Operating income increased to $512.1 million in Q3 FY12, compared to $450.9 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin increased 90 basis points to 20.7% in Q3 FY12.  The margin expansion was due to increased sales leverage, partially offset by the increase in commodity costs, primarily coffee.
 
 
 
 
- Page 3 -
 
Q3 EMEA Segment Results
 
 
Net revenues for the EMEA segment were $282.0 million in Q3 FY12, an increase of 9% over Q3 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to incremental revenues from the consolidation of the Switzerland and Austria markets, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange.
EMEA operating income was $2.6 million in Q3 FY12, compared to operating income of $4.9 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin decreased 100 basis points to 0.9% compared to 1.9% in the prior-year period.  The margin contraction was primarily driven by higher costs related to the transition to a consolidated food and dairy distribution model in the UK.
Q3 China/Asia Pacific Segment Results
 
 
Net revenues for the China/Asia Pacific segment were $181.8 million in Q3 FY12, an increase of 31% over Q3 FY11.  The increase was due to incremental revenues from 116 net new company-operated store openings over the last 12 months, higher licensed stores revenue and a 12% increase in comparable store sales.  The 12% increase in comparable store sales was the result of an 8% increase in the number of transactions and a 4% increase in average ticket.
Operating income increased 37% to $61.4 million in Q3 FY12, compared to $44.9 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin increased 140 basis points to 33.8% in Q3 FY12 compared to 32.4% in the prior-year period.  The margin expansion was primarily driven by increased sales leverage, partially offset by investment spending to support continued growth in China.
 
 
 
- Page 4 -
 
Q3 Channel Development Segment Results
 
 
Channel Development net revenues were $316.4 million in Q3 FY12, an increase of 45% over Q3 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to sales of Starbucks- and Tazo-branded K-Cup portion packs and growth in packaged coffee sales.  The fiscal third quarter marks the first full year-over-year comparison period under the direct distribution model.
Channel Development operating income was $86.5 million in Q3 FY12 compared to $69.3 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin was 27.3% in Q3 FY12 compared to 31.7% in the prior-year period.  The margin contraction was mainly due to higher commodity costs, primarily coffee, which negatively impacted Q3 FY12 operating income and operating margin by approximately $16 million and 500 basis points, respectively, compared to the same period in the prior year.
YTD Financial Results
 
 
 
 
Fiscal 2012 Targets
 
Starbucks has updated its Q4 FY12 revenue growth target to a range of 10% - 12%, and Q4 EPS to a range of $0.44 to $0.45.
 
 
 
- Page 5 -
 
Fiscal 2013 Targets
 
Starbucks has announced its fiscal 2013 targets as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company Updates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call
 
Starbucks will be holding a conference call today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo, John Culver, president, Starbucks Coffee China and Asia Pacific and Troy Alstead, cfo.  The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the companys web site address of . A replay of the call will be available via telephone through 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, July 27, 2012 by calling 1-855-859-2056, reservation number 38993543. A replay of the call will also be available via the Investor Relations page on Starbucks.com through approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, August 24, 2012 at the following URL: .
http://investor.starbucks.com
 
http://investor.starbucks.com
The companys consolidated statements of earnings, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications. This information should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release. Please refer to the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2011 for additional information.
 
 
 
 
- Page 6 -
 
About Starbucks
 
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at  .
arabica
Starbucks Experience
www.starbucks.com
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to certain company initiatives, strategies and plans, as well as trends in or expectations regarding, earnings per share, revenues, shareholder value, operational improvements and efficiencies, diversified business model, changes to the organizational and leadership structures, business momentum, growth and growth opportunities overall and of specific businesses and markets, sales leverage, store traffic, average ticket, operating margins, profits, capital expenditures, charges, comparable store sales, store openings and closings,  the strength, health and potential of our business and brand, product innovations and store experience, tax rate and commodity costs and their impact.  These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties.  Actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability, costs associated with, and the successful execution of, the companys initiatives, strategies and plans, the acceptance of the companys products by our customers, fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies, the impact of competition, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2011.  The company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
- Page 7 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Page 8 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Page 9 -
 
Segment Results
The tables below present reportable segment results net of intersegment eliminations
(in millions):
 
 
 
 
- Page 10 -
 
 
 
 
- Page 11 -
 
 
 
 
- Page 12 -
 
 
 
 
- Page 13 -
 
 
 
- Page 14 -
Supplemental Information
The following supplemental information is provided for historical and comparative purposes.  The U.S. data is included as a transitional tool to provide insight into the U.S. business, as it was previously a reportable segment and is now the largest component of the Americas segment:
Fiscal Third Quarter 2012 U.S. Supplemental Data
 
 
Fiscal Third Quarter 2012 Store Data
 
The companys store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
- Page 15 -
 
Non-GAAP Disclosure
 
In addition to the GAAP results provided in this release, the company provides non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) for fiscal 2011.  These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) are operating margin and diluted net earnings per share, respectively.
 
The fiscal 2011 non-GAAP financial measures provided in this release exclude non-routine gains from the sale of properties and the acquisition of the companys joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria in fiscal 2011.  The companys management believes that providing these non-GAAP financial measures better enables investors to understand and evaluate the companys historical and prospective operating performance.  More specifically, for historical non-GAAP financial measures, management excludes the non-routine gains in fiscal 2011, because it believes that the impact of non-routine gains do not reflect expected future expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the companys future operating performance or comparisons to the companys past operating performance.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the companys results as reported under GAAP.  Other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than the company does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2012 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved.
 
#
 


