FILE:SBUX/SBUX-8K-20121101160635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 1, 2012, Starbucks Corporation (Starbucks or the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Starbucks Reports Record Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2012 Results
Q4 Revenues up 11% to a Record $3.4 Billion
Q4 EPS of $0.46; Up 24% After Excluding Non-Routine Gains in Prior Year
Strong Traffic Drives 7% US Comparable Store Sales Growth; 6% Global Growth
Channel Development Revenue Grows 32%
Board Raises Quarterly Cash Dividend 24% on Strength of Business and Outlook
SEATTLE; November 1, 2012  Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ: SBUX) today reported financial results for its 13-week fiscal fourth quarter and 52-week fiscal year ended September 30, 2012.  When comparing with prior year results, note that fiscal 2011 included non-routine gains related to the sale of corporate real estate and the acquisition of the companys joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria.  A reconciliation of select FY11 GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures is included at the end of this document.
:
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2012 Highlights
:
Fiscal Year 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Q4 and overall 2012 fiscal year performance demonstrates the strength of our business and brand, said Howard Schultz, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Starbucks Coffee Company. The resiliency and relevance of our U.S. retail business, acceleration of the Channel Development business and expansion in Asia all contributed significantly to our strong results. I am incredibly proud of our 200,000 Starbucks partners around the world who have contributed to the success of the company and I am optimistic about achieving our aspirations for the future. 
 
Our excellent fourth quarter and full fiscal year results reflect the strength of our business and the solid execution by our partners, specifically illustrated in the fourth quarter by strong traffic growth, continued momentum in Channel Development, and rapid earnings growth, stated Troy Alstead, chief financial officer. By delivering relevant innovation to our customers while increasing focus on execution and operating efficiencies, we drove sales growth and expanded profit margins. On the strength of our business in fiscal 2012 and the momentum we carry into the new fiscal year, we remain confident in our fiscal 2013 outlook of continued strong profitable growth on a global scale.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012 Summary
 
 
 
Consolidated net revenues reached a fourth-quarter record $3.4 billion in Q4 FY12, an increase of 11% over Q4 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to a 6% increase in global comparable stores sales, 32% revenue growth in Channel Development and 14% revenue growth in licensed stores.  The 6% increase in comparable store sales was comprised of a 5% increase in the number of transactions and a 1% increase in average ticket.
Consolidated operating income increased 16% to a record $519.6 million, compared to $448.3 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin expanded 60 basis points to a record 15.4% this quarter, compared to 14.8% in the same period last year. Operating margin expanded 160 basis points from 13.8% after excluding the non-routine gain in the prior year. Increased sales leverage was the primary driver of margin expansion.
Q4 Americas Segment Results
Net revenues for the Americas segment were $2.5 billion in Q4 FY12, an increase of 9% over Q4 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, comprised of a 5% increase in the number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket. Also contributing to the increase were incremental revenues from 504 net new store openings over the past 12 months.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Page 4 -
 
Operating income increased to $536.3 million in Q4 FY12, compared to $444.2 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin increased 210 basis points to 21.4% in Q4 FY12 primarily due to increased sales leverage.
Q4 EMEA Segment Results
 
Net revenues for the EMEA segment were $283.7 million in Q4 FY12, a decrease of 2% over Q4 FY11 primarily driven by unfavorable foreign currency exchange and partially offset by 29% revenue growth in licensed stores.
The EMEA segment had an operating loss of $6.5 million in Q4 FY12, compared to operating income of $2.5 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin decreased 320 basis points to -2.3% compared to 0.9% in the prior-year period.  The margin contraction was driven by costs related to store portfolio optimization initiatives in Europe, which had 410 basis points of impact. Excluding these costs, operating margin expanded as a result of improved operational efficiencies.
Q4 China/Asia Pacific Segment Results
 
Net revenues for the China/Asia Pacific segment were $198.0 million in Q4 FY12, an increase of 23% over Q4 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to incremental revenues from 154 net new company-operated store openings over the last 12 months and a 10% increase in comparable store sales. The increase in comparable store sales was attributable to a 7% increase in number of transactions and a 2% increase in average ticket.
Operating income increased 11% to $65.2 million in Q4 FY12, compared to $58.5 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin decreased 340 basis points to 32.9% in Q4 FY12 compared to 36.3% in the prior-year period.  The margin decline was primarily due to increased spending to support accelerated store growth in China.
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 5 -
 
Q4 Channel Development Segment Results
 
Channel Development net revenues were $318.5 million in Q4 FY12, an increase of 32% over Q4 FY11.  The increase was primarily due to sales of Starbucks- and Tazo-branded K-Cup portion packs.
Channel Development operating income was $100.8 million in Q4 FY12 compared to $80.3 million for the same period a year ago.  Operating margin declined by 160 basis points to 31.6% in Q4 FY12 compared to 33.2% in the prior-year period.  The margin contraction was mainly due to shifts in product mix and higher commodity costs, primarily coffee.
 
Full Year Financial Results
 
Consolidated net revenues reached a record $13.3 billion in FY12, an increase of 14% over FY11.  The increase was primarily due to a 7% increase in global comparable stores sales, consisting of a 6% increase in the number of transactions and a 1% increase in average ticket, 50% revenue growth in Channel Development, and 20% growth in licensed stores revenue.
Consolidated operating income grew 16% to a record $2.0 billion in FY12, compared to $1.7 billion in FY11.  Operating margin expanded 20 basis points to a record 15.0% in FY12 compared to 14.8% in FY11.  The operating margin expansion was 50 basis points when excluding the non-routine gain in the prior year.  This improvement was primarily due to increased sales leverage. Increased commodity costs, mainly coffee, negatively impacted operating income and operating margin in FY12 by approximately $214 million and 160 basis points, respectively.
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 6 -
 
Fiscal 2013 Targets
 
Starbucks has updated its fiscal 2013 targets as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company Updates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 7 -
 
Conference Call
 
Starbucks will be holding a conference call today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, which will be hosted by Howard Schultz, chairman, president and ceo, Michelle Gass, president, Starbucks Coffee EMEA and Troy Alstead, cfo.  The call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at the companys web site address of . A replay of the call will be available via telephone through 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, November 2, 2012 by calling 1-855-859-2056, reservation number 99153013. A replay of the webcast will also be available via the Investor Relations page on Starbucks.com through approximately 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on Friday, November 30, 2012 at the following URL: .
http://investor.starbucks.com
 
http://investor.starbucks.com
The companys consolidated statements of earnings, operating segment results, and other additional information have been provided on the following pages in accordance with current year classifications. This information should be reviewed in conjunction with this press release. Please refer to the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
October 2, 2011 for additional information.
 
About Starbucks
 
Since 1971, Starbucks Coffee Company has been committed to ethically sourcing and roasting the highest quality coffee in the world. Today, with stores around the globe, the company is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world. Through our unwavering commitment to excellence and our guiding principles, we bring the unique to life for every customer through every cup. To share in the experience, please visit us in our stores or online at
arabica
Starbucks Experience
www.starbucks.com
.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements relating to certain company initiatives, strategies and plans, as well as trends in or expectations regarding, earnings per share, revenues, shareholder value, operational improvements and efficiencies, diversified business model, changes to the organizational and leadership structures, business momentum, growth and growth opportunities overall and of specific businesses, markets and channels, sales leverage, store traffic, average ticket, overall performance of new and existing stores, loyalty programs, operating margins, profits, capital expenditures, charges, comparable store sales, store openings and closings,  the strength, health and potential of our business and brand, product innovations, store experience, tax rate and commodity costs and their impact.  These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties.  Actual future results may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability, costs associated with, and the successful execution of, the companys initiatives, strategies and plans, the acceptance of the companys products by our customers, fluctuations in U.S. and international economies and currencies, the impact of competition, the effect of legal proceedings, and other risks detailed in the company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors section of Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2011.  The company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
operating costs,
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
- Page 8 -
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 9 -
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 10 -
 
 
Segment Results
 
The tables below present reportable segment results net of intersegment eliminations
(in millions):
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 11 -
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 12 -
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 13 -
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 14 -
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 15 -
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 16 -
 
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 17 -
 
The following supplemental information is provided for historical and comparative purposes.  The U.S. data is included as a transitional tool to provide insight into the U.S. business, as it was previously a reportable segment and is now the largest component of the Americas segment:
Fourth Quarter 2012 U.S. Supplemental Data
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2012 Store Data
The companys store data for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
 
- Page 18 -
 
 
Non-GAAP Disclosure
In addition to the GAAP results provided in this release, the company provides non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) for fiscal 2011.  These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) are operating margin and diluted net earnings per share, respectively.
The fiscal 2011 non-GAAP financial measures provided in this release exclude non-routine gains from the sale of properties and the acquisition of the companys joint venture operations in Switzerland and Austria in fiscal 2011. The companys management believes that providing these non-GAAP financial measures better enables investors to understand and evaluate the companys historical and prospective operating performance.  More specifically, for historical non-GAAP financial measures, management excludes the non-routine gains in fiscal 2011 because it believes that the impact of non-routine gains do not reflect expected future expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of the companys future operating performance or comparisons to the companys past operating performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the companys results as reported under GAAP.  Other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently than the company does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes.
 
 
 
 2012 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved.
 


