ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information regarding net sales and other financial and operational data by brand. In Store Experience and Store Operations. The Company views the customers in store experience as the primary vehicle for communicating the spirit of each brand. The Company emphasizes the senses of sight, sound, smell, touch and energy by utilizing visual presentation of merchandise, in store marketing, music, fragrances, rich fabrics and its sales associates to reinforce the aspirational lifestyles represented by the brands. The Companys in store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a shopping experience that reflects the Abercrombie Fitch, abercrombie, Hollister, RUEHL or Gilly Hicks lifestyle. The Companys sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores. In addition to providing a high level of customer service, sales associates and managers reflect the casual, energetic and aspirational attitude of the brands. Every brand displays merchandise uniformly to ensure a consistent store experience, regardless of location. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the Company wide merchandising strategy. In addition, standardization of each brands store design and merchandise presentation enables the Company to open new stores efficiently. 3 Table of Contents At the end of Fiscal 2008, the Company operated 1,125 stores. The following table details the number of retail stores operated by the Company for the past two fiscal years: Abercrombie Fitch abercrombie Hollister RUEHL Gilly Hicks Total Fiscal 2007 Beginning of Year 360 177 393 14 944 New 6 25 58 7 3 99 Remodels/Conversions (net activity as of year end) (2 ) (1 ) 1 (2 ) Closed (5 ) (1 ) (6 ) End of Year 359 (1) 201 450 (2) 22 3 1,035 Fiscal 2008 Beginning of Year 359 (1) 201 450 (2) 22 3 1,035 New 2 12 66 6 11 97 Remodels/Conversions (net activity as of year end) 2 1 3 Closed (7 ) (2 ) (1 ) (10 ) End of Year 356 (1) 212 (3) 515 (4) 28 14 1,125 (1) Includes three stores operated in Canada and one flagship in the United Kingdom. (2) Includes three stores operated in Canada. (3) Includes two stores operated in Canada. (4) Includes five stores operated in Canada and three stores in the United Kingdom. Direct to Consumer Business. During Fiscal 2008, the Company operated and continues to operate web based stores for the Abercrombie Fitch, abercrombie, Hollister and RUEHL brands located at: www.Abercrombie.com; www.abercrombiekids.com; www.hollisterco.com; and www.RUEHL.com, respectively. In late January 2009, the Company also launched a web based store for Gilly Hicks located at www.gillyhicks.com. Products offered at individual stores can be purchased through the respective websites. Each of the five websites reinforces the particular brands lifestyle and is designed to complement the in store experience. Aggregate total net sales, including shipping and handling revenue, through the direct to consumer business, was $315.0 million for Fiscal 2008, representing 8.9% of total net sales. The Company believes its websites have broadened its market and brand recognition worldwide. Marketing and Advertising. The Company considers the in store experience to be its main form of marketing. The Company emphasizes the senses to reinforce the aspirational lifestyles represented by the brands. Additionally, the Company advertises on billboards and in select national publications. The stand alone Abercrombie Fitch flagships on Fifth Avenue in New York and on Savile Row in London represent the pinnacle of the Companys in store branding efforts. The stores attract a substantial number of international tourists, and have significantly contributed to AFs worldwide status as an iconic brand. 4 Table of Contents Merchandise Suppliers. During Fiscal 2008, the Company purchased merchandise from approximately 210 vendors located throughout the world; primarily in Asia and Central and South America. In Fiscal 2008, the Company sourced approximately 6% of its apparel and personal care products from one single factory. Besides that one factory, the Company did not source more than 5% of its apparel and personal care products from any other single factory or supplier. The Company pursues a global sourcing strategy that includes relationships with vendors in 37 countries and the United States (the U.S.). Any event causing a sudden disruption, either political or financial, in these sourcing locations could have a material adverse effect on the Companys operations. The Companys foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and settled in U.S. dollars. All product sources, including independent manufacturers and suppliers, must achieve and maintain the Companys high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Companys identity. The Company has established supplier product quality standards to ensure the high quality of fabrics and other materials used in the Companys products. The Company utilizes both home office and field employees to help monitor compliance with the Companys product quality standards. Distribution and Merchandise Inventory. A majority of the Companys merchandise and related materials are shipped to the Companys two distribution centers (DCs) in New Albany, Ohio where they are received and inspected. Merchandise and related materials are then distributed to the Companys stores and direct to consumer customers primarily using one contract carrier. Any event causing a sudden disruption in the operations of the DCs or in carrier operations could have a material adverse effect on the Companys operations. The Companys practice is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory on hand in its retail stores and DCs to offer customers a full selection of current merchandise. The Company attempts to balance in stock levels and inventory turnover, and to take markdowns when required to keep merchandise fresh and current with fashion trends. Information Systems. The Companys management information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial and merchandising systems. The systems include applications related to point of sale, inventory management, supply chain, planning, sourcing, merchandising and financial reporting. The Company continues to invest in technology to upgrade core systems to make the Company scalable, efficient and more accurate in the production and delivery of merchandise to stores. In addition, the Company invests in best practice technologies that are expected to provide a clear competitive advantage. Seasonal Business. The retail apparel market has two principal selling seasons, the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (Spring) and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (Fall). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to the Back to School (August) and Holiday (November and December) selling seasons. During Spring of Fiscal 2008, the highest level of inventory, approximately $470.7 million at cost, was reached at the end of July 2008, due to the upcoming Back to School selling season. The lowest level of inventory, approximately $326.7 million at cost, was reached at the end of March 2008. During Fall of Fiscal 5 Table of Contents 2008, the highest level of inventory, approximately $504.9 million at cost, was reached at the end of October 2008 in anticipation of the Holiday selling season beginning in November. The lowest level of inventory, approximately $352.2 million at cost, was reached at the end of December 2008. Trademarks. The Abercrombie Fitch, abercrombie, Hollister Co. and Ruehl No. 925 trademarks have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. An application for the Gilly Hicks trademark has been filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. An application for the Gilly Hicks Sydney trademark has been approved for registration by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or may be located in the future. These trademarks are either registered or have applications pending with the registries of many of the foreign countries in which the manufacturers of the Companys products are located. The Company has also registered or has applied to register certain other trademarks in the U.S. and around the world. The Company believes that its products are identified by its trademarks and, therefore, its trademarks are of significant value. Each registered trademark has a duration of ten to 20 years, depending on the date it was registered and the country in which it is registered, and is subject to an infinite number of renewals for a like period upon continued use and appropriate application. The Company intends to continue using its core trademarks and to renew each of its registered trademarks that remain in use. Financial Information about Segments. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, (SFAS No. 131), the Company determines its operating segments on the same basis that it uses to evaluate performance internally. The operating segments identified by the Company are Abercrombie Fitch, abercrombie, Hollister, RUEHL and Gilly Hicks. The operating segments have been aggregated and are reported as one reportable financial segment. RUEHL and Gilly Hicks were determined to be immaterial for segment reporting purposes, and are therefore included in the one reportable segment as they have similar economic characteristics and meet the majority of the aggregation criteria in paragraph 17 of SFAS No. 131. The Company aggregates its operating segments because they have similar economic characteristics and meet the aggregation criteria set forth in paragraph 17 of SFAS No. 131. The Company believes its operating segments may be aggregated for financial reporting purposes because they are similar in each of the following areas: class of consumer, economic characteristics, nature of products, nature of production processes and distribution methods. Revenues relating to the Companys international operations for the fifty two weeks ended January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 and long lived assets relating to the Companys international operations as of January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 were not material and were not reported separately from domestic revenues and long lived assets. Other Information. Additional information about the Companys business, including its revenues and profits for the last three fiscal years and gross square footage of stores, is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 6 Table of Contents Competition. The sale of apparel and personal care products through brick and mortar stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. As the Company continues its international expansion, it will also face competition in European, Asian and other international markets from established regional and national chains, as well as specialty stores. Brand recognition, fashion, price, service, store location, selection and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store and direct to consumer sales. The competitive challenges facing the Company include anticipating and quickly responding to changing fashion trends; and maintaining the aspirational positioning of its brands so it can sustain its premium pricing position. Furthermore, the Company faces additional competitive challenges as many retailers increase promotional activity as a result of current economic conditions, while the Companys policy continues to be not to engage in promotional activities that the Company believes could diminish the value of the brands. Associate Relations. As of March 20, 2009, the Company employed approximately 83,000 associates, none of whom were party to a collective bargaining agreement. Approximately 73,000 of these associates were part time employees. On average, the Company employed approximately 22,000 full time equivalents during Fiscal 2008 which included approximately 13,000 full time equivalents comprised of part time employees, including temporary associates hired during peak periods, such as the Back to School and Holiday seasons. The Company believes it maintains a good relationship with its associates. However, in the normal course of business, the Company is party to lawsuits involving former and current associates. Refer to ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward Looking Statements And Risk Factors. The Company cautions that any forward looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which may be beyond the Companys control. Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, expect, anticipate, intend and similar expressions may identify forward looking statements. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward looking statements. The following factors could affect the Companys financial performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward looking statements: effects of the current financial crisis and general economic conditions which impact consumer confidence and purchases and the level of consumer discretionary spending; effects of changes in the U.S. credit and lending market conditions; loss of services of skilled senior executive officers; 7 Table of Contents ability to hire, train and retain qualified associates; changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; ability to develop innovative, high quality new merchandise in response to changing fashion trends; the impact of competition and pricing pressures; availability and market prices of key raw materials; interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers and the flow of merchandise to and from distributors; ability of manufacturers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and ethical business practices; availability of suitable store locations under appropriate terms; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; unseasonable weather conditions affecting consumer preferences; disruptive weather conditions affecting consumers ability to shop; and effect of litigation exposure potentially exceeding expectations. The following sets forth a description of certain risk factors that the Company believes may be relevant to an understanding of the Company and its business. These risk factors, in addition to the factors set forth above, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the Companys forward looking statements. The Current Financial Crisis and General Economic Conditions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Business, Results of Operations and Liquidity. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the Companys merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The Companys performance is subject to factors that affect worldwide economic conditions including employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on recent severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies and other macroeconomic factors. Recently, these factors have caused consumer spending to deteriorate significantly and may cause levels of spending to remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These factors may cause consumers to purchase products from lower priced competitors or to defer purchases of apparel and personal care products altogether. The economic downturn could have a material effect on the Companys results of operations and its liquidity and capital resources. It could also impact the Companys ability to fund its growth and or result in the Company becoming reliant on external financing, the availability of which may be uncertain. In addition, the current economic environment may exacerbate some of the risk noted below, including consumer demand, strain on available resources, international growth strategy, store growth, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The risks could be exacerbated individually or collectively. 8 Table of Contents The Loss of the Services of Skilled Senior Executive Officers Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Business. The Companys senior executive officers closely supervise all aspects of its business in particular, the design of its merchandise and the operation of its stores. The Companys senior executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of the Companys brands. If the Company were to lose the benefit of their involvement, in particular the services of any one or more of Michael S. Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Diane Chang, Executive Vice President Sourcing, Leslee K. Herro, Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation, Jonathan E. Ramsden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, David S. Cupps, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and Charles Chad Kessler, Executive Vice President Female Merchandising, its business could be adversely affected. Competition for such senior executive officers is intense, and the Company cannot be sure it will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified senior executive officers in future periods. Equity Based Compensation Awarded Under the Employment Agreement with the Companys Chief Executive Officer Could Adversely Impact the Companys Cash Flows, Financial Position or Results of Operations and Could Have a Dilutive Effect on the Companys Outstanding Common Stock. Under the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, between the Company and Michael S. Jeffries, the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the Jeffries Employment Agreement), Mr. Jeffries is entitled to receive a grant (the Retention Grant) of stock options or stock appreciation rights (in the Companys discretion) covering an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of Common Stock. In addition to the Retention Grant, Mr. Jeffries is also eligible to receive two equity based grants in respect of each fiscal year of the term of the Jeffries Employment Agreement starting with Fiscal 2009 (the Semi Annual Grants). If a Semi Annual Grant is earned, it will be awarded within 75 days following the end of the Companys second quarter or fiscal year, as applicable, subject to Mr. Jeffries continuous employment with the Company (and, with respect to the final Semi Annual Grant, continued service on the Companys Board of Directors) through the applicable grant date. The value of the Semi Annual Grants are uncertain and dependent on future market price of the Companys Common Stock and the financial performance of the Company. In connection with the Retention Grant and the Semi Annual Grants contemplated by the Jeffries Employment Agreement, the related compensation expense could significantly impact the Companys results of operations. Further, the significant number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued upon exercise and or vesting of the Retention Grant and the Semi Annual Grants is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of the Companys Common Stock and the financial performance of the Company and would, if issued, have a dilutive effect with respect to the Companys outstanding shares of Common Stock, which may adversely affect the market price of the Companys Common Stock. Depending on the number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued under the Retention Grant and Semi Annual Grants, the Company may deem it necessary or appropriate to seek shareholder approval of additional long term incentive compensation plans in order to be able to settle the awards in Common Stock. In the event that there are not sufficient shares of Common Stock available to be issued under the Companys 2007 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2007 LTIP) or under a successor or replacement plan at the time these equity based awards are ultimately settled, the Company will be required to settle some portion of the awards in cash, which could have an adverse impact on the Companys cash flow from operations, financial position and results of operations. In addition, under applicable accounting rules, if 9 Table of Contents the Companys stock price increases to a point where, as of any measurement date, the Company would be unable to settle outstanding equity based awards in shares of Common Stock from such plans, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, the Company will be required to classify and account for all or a portion of the equity based awards as liabilities. This could further adversely impact the Companys results of operations. The Failure to Anticipate, Identify and Respond to Changing Consumer Preferences and Fashion Trends in a Timely Manner Could Cause the Companys Profitability to Decline. The Companys success largely depends on its ability to anticipate and gauge the fashion preferences of its customers and provide merchandise that satisfies constantly shifting demands in a timely manner. The merchandise must appeal to each brands corresponding target market of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Because the Company enters into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, it is vulnerable to changes in consumer preference and demand, pricing shifts and the sub optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to successfully anticipate consumer demands in the future. To the extent that the Company fails to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, its sales will be adversely affected. Inventory levels for certain merchandise styles no longer considered to be on trend may increase, leading to higher markdowns to reduce excess inventory or increases in inventory valuation reserves. The current economic and retail environment, in which many of the Companys competitors are engaging in aggressive promotional activities, exacerbates the importance of changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. Each of these could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Market Share may be Adversely Impacted at any Time by a Significant Number of Competitors. The sale of apparel and personal care products through brick and mortar stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. The Company faces a variety of competitive challenges, including: maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing its products to consumers in several diverse demographic markets; sourcing merchandise efficiently; and countering the aggressive promotional activities of many of the Companys competitors without diminishing the aspirational nature of the Companys brands and brand equity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. The Interruption of the Flow of Merchandise from Key Vendors and International Manufacturers Could Disrupt the Companys Supply Chain. The Company purchases the majority of its merchandise outside of the U.S. through arrangements with approximately 210 vendors which include 314 foreign manufacturers located throughout the world, primarily in Asia and Central and South America. In addition, many of the Companys domestic manufacturers maintain production facilities overseas. Political, social or economic instability in Asia, Central or South America, or in other regions in which the Companys manufacturers are located, could cause disruptions in 10 Table of Contents trade, including exports to the U.S. Other events that could also cause disruptions to exports to the U.S. include: the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements; foreign currency fluctuations; restrictions on the transfer of funds; the potential of manufacturer financial instability or bankruptcy; and significant labor disputes, such as dock strikes. In addition, the Company cannot predict whether the countries in which its merchandise is manufactured, or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to the Company and adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company Does not Own or Operate any Manufacturing Facilities and Therefore Depends Upon Independent Third Parties for the Manufacture of all its Merchandise. The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. As a result, the continued success of the Companys operations is tied to its timely receipt of quality merchandise from third party manufacturers. A manufacturers inability to ship orders in a timely manner or meet the Companys quality standards could cause delays in responding to consumer demands and negatively affect consumer confidence in the quality and value of the Companys brands or negatively impact the Companys competitive position, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the Company is susceptible to increases in sourcing costs from manufacturers which the Company may not be able to pass on to the customer and could adversely affect the Companys financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Reliance on Two Distribution Centers Located in the Same Vicinity Makes it Susceptible to Disruptions or Adverse Conditions Affecting its Distribution Centers. The Companys two DCs, located in New Albany, Ohio, manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to its stores and direct to consumer customers, both regionally and internationally. The Company also uses a third party DC in the United Kingdom for the distribution of a portion of the merchandise delivered to the Abercrombie Fitch flagship and Hollister stores located in the United Kingdom. As a result, the Companys operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as system failures, accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. If the Companys distribution operations were disrupted, its ability to replace inventory in its stores and process direct to consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. 11 Table of Contents The Companys Reliance on Third Parties to Deliver Merchandise from its Distribution Centers to its Stores and Direct to Consumer Customers Could Result in Disruptions to its Business. The efficient operations of the Companys stores and direct to consumer operations depend on the timely receipt of merchandise from the Companys DCs. The Company delivers its merchandise to its stores and direct to consumer customers using independent third parties, primarily one contract carrier. The independent third parties employ personnel that may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to the Companys distribution needs would disrupt its operations and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Growth Strategy Relies on the Addition of New Stores, Which May Strain the Companys Resources and Adversely Impact the Current Store Base Performance. The Companys growth strategy largely depends on the opening of new stores, particularly internationally, remodeling existing stores in a timely manner and operating them profitably. Additional factors required for the successful implementation of the Companys growth strategy include, but are not limited to, obtaining desirable prime store locations, negotiating acceptable leases, completing projects on budget, supplying proper levels of merchandise and successfully hiring and training store managers and sales associates. Additionally, the Companys growth strategy may place increased demands on the Companys operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could cause the Company to operate less efficiently. Furthermore, there is a possibility that new stores opened in existing markets may have an adverse effect on previously existing stores in such markets. Failure to properly implement the Companys growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Development of New Brand Concepts Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Financial Condition or Results of Operations. Historically, the Company has internally developed and launched new brands that have contributed to the Companys sales growth. Each new brand concept requires managements focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. Furthermore, each new brand concept is susceptible to risks that include lack of customer acceptance, competition from existing or new retailers, product differentiation, production and distribution inefficiencies and unanticipated operating issues. There is no assurance that new brand concepts will achieve successful results. Any new brand concept that is not successfully launched could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the ongoing development of new concepts, including Ruehl and Gilly Hicks, may place a strain on the Companys available resources. The Companys International Expansion Plan is Dependent on a Number of Factors, any of Which Could Delay or Prevent the Successful Penetration into New Markets and Strain its Resources. As the Company expands internationally, it may incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and DCs, as well as hiring experienced management. The Company may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, and its growth will be limited, unless it can: identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; 12 Table of Contents negotiate acceptable lease terms; hire, train and retain competent store personnel; gain acceptance from its foreign customers; foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; expand its infrastructure to accommodate growth; generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund its expansion plan; manage its foreign currency exchange risks effectively; and achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores. In addition, the Companys international expansion plan will place increased demands on its operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands may cause the Company to operate its business less efficiently, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of its existing stores. Furthermore, the Companys ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. The Companys international expansion strategy and success could be adversely impacted by the global economy. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Adversely Impact Financial Results. The Companys international operations use local currencies as the functional currency. Such foreign currency transactions are denominated in Euros, Canadian Dollars, Japanese Yen, Danish Krones, Swiss Francs, Hong Kong Dollars and British Pounds. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, income, expenses, assets and liabilities from local currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will impact the Companys financial results. In order to mitigate the risk of foreign currency exchange rate exposures, the Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts. However, the Company cannot guarantee that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not materially affect financial results. The Companys Net Sales and Inventory Levels Fluctuate on a Seasonal Basis, Causing its Results of Operations to be Particularly Susceptible to Changes in Back to School and Holiday Shopping Patterns. Historically, the Companys operations have been seasonal, with a significant amount of net sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the increased sales during the Holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third fiscal quarter, reflecting increased sales during the Back to School selling season. The Companys net sales and net income during the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower, due, in part, to the traditional retail slowdown immediately following the Holiday season. As a result of this seasonality, net sales and net income during any fiscal quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of the Companys annual results. Any factors negatively affecting the Company during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, such as those faced in Fiscal 2008, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations for the entire year. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, in order to prepare for the Back to School and Holiday selling seasons, the Company must order and keep significantly more merchandise in stock than it would carry during other parts of the year. Therefore, the inability to accurately plan for product demand and merchandise allocation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. High inventory levels due to unanticipated decreases in demand for the Companys products during peak selling seasons, misidentification of fashion trends or excess inventory purchases could require the Company to sell merchandise at a substantial markdown, which could reduce its net sales and gross margins and negatively impact its profitability. The Companys Ability to Attract Customers to its Stores Depends Heavily on the Success of the Shopping Centers in Which They are Located. In order to generate customer traffic, the Company locates many of its stores in prominent locations within successful shopping centers. The Company cannot control the development of new shopping centers; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers. All of these factors may impact the Companys ability to meet its growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Comparable Store Sales Have Been Negatively Affected by the Economy and Will Continue to Fluctuate on a Regular Basis. The Companys comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and the square footage of which has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20%, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. During the past three fiscal years, comparable sales results have fluctuated as follows: (a) from (13%) to 2% for annual results; (b) from (25%) to 6% for quarterly results; and (c) from (28%) to 17% for monthly results. The Companys comparable store sales were particularly adversely affected by the economy and our competitors promotional activities in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 and continue to be adversely affected to date in Fiscal 2009. The Company believes that a variety of factors affect comparable store sales results including, but not limited to, fashion trends, actions by competitors, economic conditions, weather conditions, opening and or closing of Company stores near each other, and the calendar shifts of tax free and holiday periods. Comparable store fluctuations may impact the Companys ability to leverage fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In addition, comparable store sales fluctuations may have been an important factor in the volatility of the price of the Companys Class A Common Stock in the past, and it is likely that future comparable store sales fluctuations will contribute to stock price volatility in the future. The Companys Net Sales are Affected by Direct to Consumer Sales. The Company sells merchandise over the Internet through its websites: www.Abercrombie.com; www.abercrombiekids.com; www.hollisterco.com; www.RUEHL.com; and www.gillyhicks.com. The Companys Internet operations may be affected by reliance on third party hardware and software providers, technology changes, risks related to the failure of computer systems that operate the Internet business, telecommunications failures, electronic break ins and similar disruptions. Furthermore, the Companys ability to conduct business on the Internet may be affected by liability for on line content and state and federal privacy laws. 14 Table of Contents The Companys Litigation Exposure Could Exceed Expectations, Having a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The Company is involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to its business, such as litigation regarding overtime compensation and other employment related matters. Additionally, the Company is involved in several purported class action lawsuits and several shareholder derivative actions alleged to have arisen out of trading in the Companys Class A Common Stock in the summer of Fiscal 2005 (collectively, the Securities Matters, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Management is unable to assess the potential exposure of the aforesaid matters. The Companys current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with managements evaluation of the claims. Should managements evaluation prove incorrect, the Companys exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. The Companys Failure to Adequately Protect Its Trademarks Could Have a Negative Impact on Its Brand Image and Limit Its Ability to Penetrate New Markets. The Company believes its trademarks, Abercrombie Fitch, abercrombie, Hollister Co., Ruehl No. 925, Gilly Hicks and the Moose, Seagull, Bulldog and Koala logos, are an essential element of the Companys strategy. The Company has obtained or applied for federal registration of these trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, the Company owns registrations and pending applications for other trademarks in the U.S. and has applied for or obtained registrations from the registries in many foreign countries in which its manufacturers are located. There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain registrations that have been applied for or that the registrations the Company obtains will prevent the imitation of its products or infringement of its intellectual property rights by others. If any third party copies the Companys products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, the Companys brand image could be materially adversely affected. Because the Company has not yet registered all of its trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which it sources or offers its merchandise now or may in the future, its international expansion and its merchandising of products using these marks could be limited. For example, the Company cannot ensure that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of its products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. The pending applications for international registration of various trademarks could be challenged or rejected in those countries because third parties of whom the Company is not currently aware have already registered similar marks in those countries. Accordingly, it may be possible, in those foreign countries where the status of various applications is pending or unclear, for a third party owner of the national trademark registration for a similar mark to prohibit the manufacture, sale or exportation of branded goods in or from that country. If the Company is unable to reach an arrangement with any such party, the Companys manufacturers may be unable to manufacture its products, and the Company may be unable to sell in those countries. The Companys inability to register its trademarks or purchase or license the right to use its trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit its ability to obtain supplies from, or manufacture in, less costly markets or penetrate new markets should the Companys business plan include selling its merchandise in those non U.S. jurisdictions. The Company has an anti counterfeiting program, under the auspices of the Abercrombie Fitch Brand Protection Team, whose goal is to eliminate the supply of illegal pieces of the Companys products. The Brand 15 Table of Contents Protection Team interacts with investigators, customs officials and law enforcement entities throughout the world to combat the illegal use of the Companys trademarks. Although brand security initiatives are being taken, the Company cannot guarantee that its efforts against the counterfeiting of its brands will be successful. The Companys Unsecured Credit Agreement Includes Financial and Other Covenants that Impose Restrictions on its Financial and Business Operations. The Companys unsecured credit agreement expires on April 12, 2013 and market conditions could potentially impact the size and terms of a replacement facility. In addition, the unsecured credit agreement contains financial covenants that require the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If the Company fails to comply with the covenants and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result and the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. If that should occur, the Company cannot guarantee that it would have sufficient liquidity, at that time, to repay or refinance borrowings under the unsecured credit agreement. The inability to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms or a default under the current unsecured credit agreement could adversely impact liquidity and results of operations. Changes in Taxation Requirements Could Adversely Impact Financial Results. The Company is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions, including international and domestic locations. In addition, the Companys products are subject to import and excise duties and or sales or value added taxes in many jurisdictions. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Modifications and or Upgrades to Information Technology Systems may Disrupt Operations. The Company regularly evaluates its information technology systems and requirements and is currently implementing modifications and or upgrades to the information technology systems that support the business. Modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. The Company is aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions. The Company believes it is taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver value to the Company. Our Business Could Suffer if the Companys Computer Systems are Disrupted or Cease to Operate Effectively. The Company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate the Companys operations. Given the significant number of transactions that are completed annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of the computer hardware and software systems. Despite efforts to prevent such an occurrence, the Companys systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. If our systems are 16 Table of Contents damaged or fail to function properly, the Company may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the systems and the Company could endure delays in its operations. Any material interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. The Companys headquarters and support functions occupy 474 acres, consisting of the home office and distribution and shipping facilities centralized on a campus like setting in New Albany, Ohio and an additional small distribution and shipping facility located in the Columbus, Ohio area, all which are owned by the Company. Additionally, the Company leases small facilities to house its design and sourcing support centers in Hong Kong, New York City and Los Angeles, California, as well as offices in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Switzerland and Italy for its European operations. All of the retail stores operated by the Company, as of March 20, 2009, are located in leased facilities, primarily in shopping centers throughout the U.S., Canada and the U.K. As of March 20, 2009, the Company operated two stand alone flagships with one in New York, New York and one in the U.K. The leases expire at various dates, between 2009 and 2028. The Companys home office, distribution and shipping facilities, design support centers and stores are generally suitable and adequate. As of March 20, 2009, the Companys 1,127 stores were located in 49 states, the District of Columbia, Canada and the U.K., as follows: Alabama 15 Kentucky 14 North Dakota 2 Alaska 1 Louisiana 15 Ohio 41 Arizona 17 Maine 4 Oklahoma 10 Arkansas 7 Maryland 20 Oregon 15 California 140 Massachusetts 35 Pennsylvania 49 Colorado 12 Michigan 34 Rhode Island 4 Connecticut 22 Minnesota 24 South Carolina 15 Delaware 4 Mississippi 6 South Dakota 2 District of Columbia 1 Missouri 20 Tennessee 24 Florida 77 Montana 3 Texas 103 Georgia 29 Nebraska 6 Utah 7 Hawaii 5 Nevada 15 Vermont 2 Idaho 4 New Hampshire 11 Virginia 28 Illinois 50 New Jersey 42 Washington 24 Indiana 26 New Mexico 4 West Virginia 5 Iowa 8 New York 58 Wisconsin 16 Kansas 6 North Carolina 30 Canada 11 U.K. 4 17 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. AF is a defendant in lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. On June 23, 2006, Lisa Hashimoto, et al. v. Abercrombie Fitch Co. and Abercrombie Fitch Stores, Inc., was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles. In that action, plaintiffs alleged, on behalf of a putative class of California store managers employed in Hollister and abercrombie stores, that they were entitled to receive overtime pay as non exempt employees under California wage and hour laws. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, equitable relief, unpaid overtime compensation, unpaid benefits, penalties, interest and attorneys fees and costs. The defendants answered the complaint on August 21, 2006, denying liability. On June 23, 2008 the defendants settled all claims of Hollister and abercrombie store managers who served in stores from June 23, 2002 through April 30, 2004, but continued to oppose the plaintiffs remaining claims. On July 29, 2008 the Court certified a class consisting of all store managers who served at Hollister and abercrombie stores in California from May 1, 2004 through the future date upon which the action concludes. The parties are continuing to litigate the claims of that putative class. On September 2, 2005, a purported class action, styled Robert Ross v. Abercrombie Fitch Company, et al., was filed against AF and certain of its officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio on behalf of a purported class of all persons who purchased or acquired shares of AFs Common Stock between June 2, 2005 and August 16, 2005. In September and October of 2005, five other purported class actions were subsequently filed against AF and other defendants in the same Court. All six securities cases allege claims under the federal securities laws related to sales of Common Stock by certain defendants and to a decline in the price of AFs Common Stock during the summer of 2005, allegedly as a result of misstatements attributable to AF. Plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages. On November 1, 2005, a motion to consolidate all of these purported class actions into the first filed case was filed by some of the plaintiffs. AF joined in that motion. On March 22, 2006, the motions to consolidate were granted, and these actions (together with the federal court derivative cases described in the following paragraph) were consolidated for purposes of motion practice, discovery and pretrial proceedings. A consolidated amended securities class action complaint (the Complaint) was filed on August 14, 2006. On October 13, 2006, all defendants moved to dismiss that Complaint. On August 9, 2007, the Court denied the motions to dismiss. On September 14, 2007, defendants filed answers denying the material allegations of the Complaint and asserting affirmative defenses. On October 26, 2007, plaintiffs moved to certify their purported class. After briefings and argument, the motion was submitted on March 24, 2009. On September 16, 2005, a derivative action, styled The Booth Family Trust v. Michael S. Jeffries, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, naming AF as a nominal defendant and seeking to assert claims for unspecified damages against nine of AFs present and former directors, alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty and seeking equitable and monetary relief. In the following three months (October, November and December of 2005), four similar derivative actions were filed (three in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio and one in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio) against present and former directors of AF alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty allegedly arising out of the same matters alleged in the Ross case and seeking equitable and monetary relief on behalf of AF. AF is also a nominal defendant in each of the four later derivative actions. On November 4, 2005, a motion to consolidate all of the federal court derivative actions with the purported securities law class actions described in the preceding paragraph was filed. On March 22, 2006, the motion to consolidate was granted, and the federal court derivative actions have been consolidated with the aforesaid purported securities law class actions for purposes of motion practice, 18 Table of Contents discovery and pretrial proceedings. A consolidated amended derivative complaint was filed in the federal proceeding on July 10, 2006. AF filed a motion to stay the consolidated federal derivative case and that motion was granted. The state court action was also stayed. On February 16, 2007, AF announced that its Board of Directors had received a report of the Special Litigation Committee established by the Board to investigate and act with respect to claims asserted in certain previously disclosed derivative lawsuits brought against current and former directors and management, including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael S. Jeffries. The Special Litigation Committee concluded that there is no evidence to support the asserted claims and directed the Company to seek dismissal of the derivative actions. On September 10, 2007, the Company moved to dismiss the federal derivative cases on the authority of the Special Litigation Committee report and on October 18, 2007, the state court stayed further proceedings until resolution of the consolidated federal derivative cases. The Companys motion was granted on March 12, 2009. Management intends to defend the aforesaid matters vigorously, as appropriate. Management is unable to quantify the potential exposure of the aforesaid matters. However, managements assessment of the Companys current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with managements evaluation of the claims. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. None. SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. Set forth below is certain information regarding the executive officers of AF as of March 20, 2009. Michael S. Jeffries, 64, has been Chairman of AF since May 1998. Mr. Jeffries has been Chief Executive Officer of AF since February 1992. From February 1992 to May 1998, Mr. Jeffries held the position of President of AF. Under the terms of the Employment Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008, between AF and Mr. Jeffries, AF is obligated to cause Mr. Jeffries to be nominated as a director of AF during his employment term. Diane Chang, 53, has been Executive Vice President Sourcing of AF since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Chang held the position of Senior Vice President Sourcing of AF from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Sourcing of AF from May 1998 to February 2000. Leslee K. Herro, 48, has been Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation of AF since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Herro held the position of Senior Vice President Planning and Allocation of AF from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Planning Allocation of AF from February 1994 to February 2000. Jonathan E. Ramsden, 44, joined AF in December 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From December 1998 to December 2008, Mr. Ramsden had served as the Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive Committee of TBWA Worldwide, a large advertising agency network and a division of Omnicom Group Inc. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer of TWBA Worldwide, he served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Omnicom Group Inc. from June 1996 to December 1998. 19 Table of Contents David S. Cupps, 72, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of AF since April 2007. Prior thereto, he was a partner in the law firm of Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP from January 1974 through December 2006 and Of Counsel to that law firm from January 2007 through March 2007. Chad F. Kessler, 36, has been Executive Vice President Female Merchandising since November 2008. Prior thereto, Mr. Kessler held the position of Senior Vice President Female Merchandising from August 2007 to November 2008, the position of Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager, Hollister from May 2005 to August 2007 and the position of Vice President of Merchandising from May 2003 to May 2005. The executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of AF and, in the case of Mr. Jeffries, pursuant to an employment agreement. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. AFs Class A Common Stock (the Common Stock) is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANF. The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of AFs Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007: Sales Price High Low Fiscal 2008 4th Quarter $ 29.97 $ 13.66 3rd Quarter $ 56.74 $ 23.75 2nd Quarter $ 77.25 $ 51.45 1st Quarter $ 82.06 $ 69.55 Fiscal 2007 4th Quarter $ 84.54 $ 66.05 3rd Quarter $ 85.77 $ 67.91 2nd Quarter $ 84.16 $ 67.72 1st Quarter $ 84.92 $ 71.75 A quarterly dividend, of $0.175 per share, was paid in March, June, September and December of Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2008. AF expects to continue to pay a dividend, subject to the Board of Directors review of the Companys cash position and results of operations. As of March 20, 2009, there were approximately 4,655 stockholders of record. However, when including investors holding shares in broker accounts under street name, active associates who participate in AFs stock purchase plan, and associates who own shares through AF sponsored retirement plans, AF estimates that there are approximately 45,000 stockholders. 20 Table of Contents The following table provides information regarding the purchase of shares of the Common Stock of AF made by or on behalf of AF or any affiliated purchaser as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, during each fiscal month of the quarterly period ended January 31, 2009: Total Number of Shares Purchased as Maximum Number of Total Number Average Part of Publicly Shares that May Yet Be of Shares Price Paid Announced Plans or Purchased under the Fiscal Month Purchased(1) per Share(2) Programs(3) Plans or Programs(4) November 2, 2008 November 29, 2008 884 $ 17.90 11,346,900 November 30, 2008 January 3, 2009 1,515 $ 18.96 11,346,900 January 4, 2009 January 31, 2009 420,594 $ 23.07 11,346,900 Totals 422,993 $ 23.05 11,346,900 (1) Included in the total number of shares of AFs Common Stock purchased during the quarterly period (thirteen week period) ended January 31, 2009 were an aggregate of 422,993 shares which were withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of employee restricted stock units and restricted stock awards. The amount shown for the fiscal month from January 4, 2009 to January 31, 2009 includes 419,500 shares withheld to satisfy the tax withholding obligation upon the vesting of the 1,000,000 career share award made to the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of January 30, 2003, with AF. (2) The average price paid per share includes broker commissions, as applicable. (3) There were no shares purchased pursuant to AFs publicly announced stock repurchase authorizations during the quarterly period (thirteen week period) ended January 31, 2009. On August 16, 2005, AF announced the August 15, 2005 authorization by AFs Board of Directors to repurchase 6.0 million shares of AFs Common Stock. On November 21, 2007, AF announced the November 20, 2007 authorization by AFs Board of Directors to repurchase 10.0 million shares of AFs Common Stock, in addition to the approximately 2.0 million shares of AFs Common Stock which remained available under the August 2005 authorization as of November 20, 2007. (4) The figure shown represents, as of the end of each period, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may yet be purchased under AFs publicly announced stock repurchase authorizations described in footnote 3 above. The shares may be purchased, from time to time, depending on market conditions. During Fiscal 2008, AF repurchased approximately 0.7 million shares of AFs Common Stock with a value of approximately $50.0 million. During Fiscal 2007, AF repurchased approximately 3.6 million shares of AFs Common Stock with a value of approximately $287.9 million. AF did not repurchase any shares of AFs Common Stock during Fiscal 2006. Both the Fiscal 2008 and the Fiscal 2007 repurchases were pursuant to AF Board of Directors authorizations. As shown in the table set forth above, AF did not repurchase any shares of AFs Common Stock during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009 pursuant to the publicly announced stock purchase authorizations. 21 Table of Contents The following graph shows the changes, over the five year period ended January 31, 2009 (the last day of AFs 2008 fiscal year), in the value of $100 invested in (i) shares of AFs Common Stock; (ii) the Standard Poors 500 Stock Index (the SP 500 Index) and (iii) the Standard Poors Apparel Retail Composite Index (the SP Apparel Retail Index), including reinvestment of dividends. The plotted points represent the closing price on the last day of the fiscal year indicated (and if such day was not a trading day, the closing price on the last day immediately preceding a trading day). PERFORMANCE GRAPH1 COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Abercrombie Fitch Co., The SP 500 Index And The SP Apparel Retail Index * $100 invested on 1/31/04 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Indexes calculated on month end basis. Copyright 2009 Dow Jones Co. All rights reserved. 1 This graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to SEC Regulation 14A or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), except to the extent that AF specifically requests that the graph be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. ABERCROMBIE FITCH CO. FINANCIAL SUMMARY 2008 2007 2006* 2005 2004 (Thousands, except per share and per square foot amounts, ratios and store and associate data) Fiscal Year Summary of Operations Net Sales $ 3,540,276 $ 3,749,847 $ 3,318,158 $ 2,784,711 $ 2,021,253 Gross Profit $ 2,361,692 $ 2,511,367 $ 2,209,006 $ 1,851,416 $ 1,341,224 Operating Income $ 439,386 $ 740,497 $ 658,090 $ 542,738 $ 347,635 Operating Income as a Percentage of Net Sales 12.4 % 19.7 % 19.8 % 19.5 % 17.2 % Net Income $ 272,255 $ 475,697 $ 422,186 $ 333,986 $ 216,376 Net Income as a Percentage of Net Sales 7.7 % 12.7 % 12.7 % 12.0 % 10.7 % Dividends Declared Per Share $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.60 $ 0.50 Net Income Per Weighted Average Share Results Basic $ 3.14 $ 5.45 $ 4.79 $ 3.83 $ 2.33 Diluted $ 3.05 $ 5.20 $ 4.59 $ 3.66 $ 2.28 Diluted Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 89,291 91,523 92,010 91,221 95,110 Other Financial Information Total Assets $ 2,848,181 $ 2,567,598 $ 2,248,067 $ 1,789,718 $ 1,386,791 Return on Average Assets 10 % 20 % 21 % 21 % 16 % Working Capital $ 635,028 $ 597,142 $ 581,451 $ 455,530 $ 241,572 Current Ratio 2.41 2.10 2.14 1.93 1.56 Net Cash Provided from Operations $ 490,836 $ 817,524 $ 582,171 $ 453,590 $ 423,784 Capital Expenditures $ 367,602 $ 403,345 $ 403,476 $ 256,422 $ 185,065 Long Term Debt $ 100,000 Shareholders Equity $ 1,845,578 $ 1,618,313 $ 1,405,297 $ 995,117 $ 669,326 Return on Average Shareholders Equity 16 % 31 % 35 % 40 % 28 % Comparable Store Sales** (13 )% (1 )% 2 % 26 % 2 % Net Retail Sales Per Average Gross Square Foot $ 425 $ 489 $ 500 $ 464 $ 360 Stores at End of Year and Average Associates Total Number of Stores Open 1,125 1,035 944 851 788 Gross Square Feet 8,022,000 7,337,000 6,693,000 6,025,000 5,590,000 Average Number of Associates 96,200 94,600 80,100 69,100 48,500 * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. ** A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Note that Fiscal 2006 comparable store sales are compared to store sales for the comparable fifty three weeks ended February 4, 2006. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty two week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty three week year. A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 included fifty two weeks and Fiscal 2006 included fifty three weeks. For purposes of this ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 are compared to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. Fiscal 2008 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. For Fiscal 2007, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 are compared to the fourteen and fifty three week periods ended February 3, 2007. Fiscal 2007 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 3, 2007. The Company had net sales of $3.540 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 31, 2009, down 5.6% from $3.750 billion for the fifty two weeks ended February 2, 2008. Operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $439.4 million, including a non cash charge of $30.6 million associated with the impairment of store related assets, which was down from $740.5 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income was $272.3 million in Fiscal 2008, down 42.8% from $475.7 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted share was $3.05 for Fiscal 2008, compared to $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 net income per diluted share included a non cash charge of approximately $0.21 per diluted share associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of approximately $0.11 per diluted share related to the execution of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement. The Company generated cash from operations of $490.8 million in Fiscal 2008 down from $817.5 million in Fiscal 2007. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction in net income, the increase in inventory on hand in Fiscal 2008, compared to a reduction of inventory on hand in Fiscal 2007, and a reduction of income taxes and accounts payable. During Fiscal 2008, the Company used cash from operations to finance its growth strategy, including the opening of two new Abercrombie Fitch stores, 66 new Hollister stores, 12 new abercrombie stores, six new RUEHL stores, and 11 new Gilly Hicks stores, as well as investments in home office resources and infrastructure to support the Companys international expansion. The Company also used cash in Fiscal 2008 to pay dividends of $0.70 per share, for a total of $60.8 million and to repurchase approximately 0.7 million shares of AF Common Stock with a value of approximately $50.0 million. In Fiscal 2008, the Company borrowed $100.0 million under the Companys unsecured credit agreement to supplement cash from operations. 24 Table of Contents The following data represents the Companys Consolidated Statements of Net Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2008 2007 2006* NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 33.3 33.0 33.4 GROSS PROFIT 66.7 67.0 66.6 Stores and Distribution Expense 42.7 37.0 35.8 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 11.9 10.6 11.3 Other Operating Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (0.3 ) OPERATING INCOME 12.4 19.7 19.8 Interest Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.5 ) (0.4 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 12.7 20.2 20.3 Provision for Income Taxes 5.0 7.6 7.5 NET INCOME 7.7 % 12.7 % 12.7 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. 25 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and operational data compares Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2007 to Fiscal 2006: Change 2008 2007 2006* 2008 2007 2007 2006 Net sales by brand (thousands) $ 3,540,276 $ 3,749,847 $ 3,318,158 (6 )% 13 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 1,531,480 $ 1,638,929 $ 1,515,123 (7 )% 8 % abercrombie $ 420,518 $ 471,045 $ 405,820 (11 )% 16 % Hollister $ 1,514,204 $ 1,589,452 $ 1,363,233 (5 )% 17 % RUEHL $ 56,218 $ 50,191 $ 33,982 12 % 48 % Gilly Hicks*** $ 17,856 $ 230 n/a n/a n/a Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales** (13 )% (1 )% 2 % Abercrombie Fitch (8 )% 0 % (4 )% abercrombie (19 )% 0 % 10 % Hollister (17 )% (2 )% 5 % RUEHL (23 )% (9 )% 14 % Net retail sales increase attributable to new and remodeled stores, and websites 7 % 14 % 17 % Net retail sales per average store (thousands) $ 3,018 $ 3,470 $ 3,533 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 3,878 $ 4,073 $ 3,945 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 1,823 $ 2,230 $ 2,251 (18 )% (1 )% Hollister $ 2,962 $ 3,550 $ 3,732 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL $ 2,039 $ 2,602 $ 3,248 (22 )% (20 )% Net retail sales per average gross square foot $ 425 $ 489 $ 500 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 438 $ 463 $ 450 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 397 $ 493 $ 513 (19 )% (4 )% Hollister $ 442 $ 531 $ 568 (17 )% (7 )% RUEHL $ 217 $ 282 $ 363 (23 )% (22 )% Transactions per average retail store 44,975 53,152 55,142 (15 )% (4 )% Abercrombie Fitch 44,602 49,915 51,704 (11 )% (3 )% abercrombie 27,160 33,907 34,786 (20 )% (3 )% Hollister 54,143 65,564 68,740 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL 23,960 31,880 38,554 (25 )% (17 )% Average retail transaction value $ 67.11 $ 65.29 $ 64.07 3 % 2 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 86.95 $ 81.59 $ 76.30 7 % 7 % abercrombie $ 67.10 $ 65.76 $ 64.72 2 % 2 % Hollister $ 54.70 $ 54.15 $ 54.30 1 % 0 % RUEHL $ 85.11 $ 81.61 $ 84.24 4 % (3 )% Average units per retail transaction 2.41 2.42 2.35 0 % 3 % Abercrombie Fitch 2.37 2.37 2.26 0 % 5 % abercrombie 2.78 2.82 2.78 (1 )% 1 % Hollister 2.34 2.36 2.32 (1 )% 2 % RUEHL 2.34 2.48 2.57 (6 )% (4 )% Average unit retail sold $ 27.85 $ 26.98 $ 27.26 3 % (1 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 36.69 $ 34.43 $ 33.76 7 % 2 % abercrombie $ 24.14 $ 23.32 $ 23.28 4 % 0 % Hollister $ 23.38 $ 22.94 $ 23.41 2 % (2 )% RUEHL $ 36.37 $ 32.91 $ 32.78 11 % 0 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. ** A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Fiscal 2006 comparable store sales are compared to store sales for the comparable fifty three weeks ended February 4, 2006. *** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 reflect the activity of 14 and three stores, respectively. In Fiscal 2007, all three stores opened in January 2008. There were no Gilly Hicks stores open as of February 3, 2007. Operational data was deemed immaterial for inclusion in the table above. 26 Table of Contents CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK The fourth quarter retail environment proved to be the most challenging in the Companys recent history. Global economic turmoil resulted in a swift and steep decline in consumer spending and a mall landscape dominated by promotional activity. The Company reacted by managing its expenses, utilizing a season ending clearance event to clear through seasonal inventory and reducing capital expenditures by scaling back on domestic expansion, all of which allowed the Company to end the year with a strong cash position. Most importantly, the Company executed its strategy in a way that enabled it to protect its brands. The Company expects that the difficult selling environment will persist throughout 2009. Therefore, the Company will continue to focus on managing the business in a seasoned, disciplined and controlled manner. As always, the Companys first priority is long term shareholder value which requires a commitment to protecting brand equity. While the Company will take clearance markdowns as a natural rhythm of the business, the cornerstone of the Companys long term successful business model is to drive sales with high quality, trend right fashion and an exceptional in store environment. The Company will continue to rigorously review all operating expenses in order to achieve expense reductions and a more flexible cost base. These efforts will be ongoing in 2009 and beyond and will be responsive to overall sales trends. The Company continues to be encouraged with the results of its international expansion. The Abercrombie Fitch London flagship continues to perform well and there has been a strong initial reaction to the Hollister mall based stores opened in the U.K. Store growth for 2009 will be focused on international opportunities as the Company moves forward with plans to bring its brands to the rest of the world. In managing the business in 2009, the Company is taking a conservative view of market conditions. The Company will continue to focus on its long term objectives while seeking to maintain flexibility to respond to market conditions. 27 Table of Contents The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales by brand, by product and by store, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; International and flagship store performance; New store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2008 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2007 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended January 31, 2009 were $998.0 million, down 18.8% from net sales of $1.229 billion for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 25% decrease in comparable store sales and an 11.9% decrease in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores. 28 Table of Contents Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 23% with mens comparable store sales decreasing by a high double digit and womens decreasing by a low thirty; abercrombie decreased 30% with boys decreasing by a low twenty and girls decreasing by a low thirty; Hollister decreased 25% with dudes decreasing by a low teen and bettys decreasing by a low thirty; and RUEHL decreased 25% with mens decreasing by a mid teen and womens decreasing by a low thirty. Regionally, comparable store sales were down in all U.S. regions and Canada. Comparable store sales were stronger in the flagship stores, particularly in the United Kingdom. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included denim, fragrance and knit tops, while graphic tees and fleece were weakest. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, knit tops, fleece and graphic tees were the primary drivers in the negative comparable store sales result. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites, for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were $95.1 million, a decrease of 12.4% from Fiscal 2007 fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $108.6 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $14.3 million in Fiscal 2008 and $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.0% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 compared to 10.1% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $642.6 million compared to $825.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 64.4%, down 280 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 rate of 67.2%. The decrease in gross profit rate can be attributed to a higher IMU rate being more than offset by an increase in markdown rate versus last year. The higher markdown rate resulted from the need to clear through seasonal merchandise as a result of declining sales and the Company limited ability to reduce fourth quarter deliveries. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $422.5 million compared to $388.4 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 42.3%, up 10.7 percentage points from 31.6% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Although the Company introduced a number of initiatives to reduce store payroll hours in response to the declining sales, the increase in rate was primarily related to the limitation on leveraging fixed expenses due to the comparable store sales decline and additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge as the Company determined that the carrying amount of assets related to 11 Abercrombie Fitch, six abercrombie, three Hollister and nine RUEHL stores exceeded the fair value of those assets. The majority of the impairment charge was associated with the nine RUEHL stores. Long lived assets are reviewed at the store level periodically for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net assets through future cash flows is in question. Factors used in the evaluation include, but are not limited to, managements plans for future operations, recent operating results and projected cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased 2.1% to $101.0 million compared to $103.2 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The reduction in the marketing, general and administrative expense included savings in incentive compensation and benefits, travel and outside services. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.1%, up 1.7 percentage points from 8.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $5.5 million compared to $3.0 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other operating income included gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, as well as losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007. In Fiscal 2008, other operating income also included an other than temporary loss of $14.0 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, offset by a gain on the related put option of $12.3 million. Operating Income Operating income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased to $124.6 million from $337.1 million in the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate (operating income divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 12.5% compared to 27.4% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 fourth quarter interest income was $2.5 million, offset by interest expense of $1.1 million compared to interest income of $6.6 million, offset by interest expense of $0.2 million in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 45.7% compared to 36.9% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 tax rate reflects a charge of $9.9 million to tax expense as a result of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement, which pursuant to section 162(m) results in the exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits. Under the previous employment agreement, the Company recorded deferred tax assets based on the anticipated delivery of benefits to the CEO in the calendar year following the year of his retirement. As a result of the new employment agreement, the CEO receives the benefits during his employment; therefore the expected tax benefits are no longer available. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $68.4 million versus $216.8 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $0.78, including a non cash, after tax charge of $0.21 associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of $0.11 related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement, which pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code resulted in the 30 Table of Contents exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits related to the previous employee agreement, compared to $2.40 for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. FISCAL 2008 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2008 were $3.540 billion, a decrease of 5.6% from Fiscal 2007 net sales of $3.750 billion. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 13% decrease in comparable store sales, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores and a 5.7% increase in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. For Fiscal 2008, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 8%; abercrombie decreased 19%; Hollister decreased 17%; and RUEHL decreased 23%. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales in Fiscal 2008 were $271.0 million, an increase of 4.7% over Fiscal 2007 net merchandise sales of $258.9 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $44.0 million in Fiscal 2008 and $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.9% of total net sales in Fiscal 2008 compared to 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit For Fiscal 2008, gross profit decreased to $2.362 billion from $2.511 billion in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2008 was 66.7% versus 67.0% the previous year, a decrease of 30 basis points. The decrease in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by an improved initial mark up rate more than offset by a higher markdown rate. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008, the Company took higher markdowns to clear through seasonal merchandise. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2008 was $1.512 billion compared to $1.387 billion for Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2008, the stores and distribution expense rate was 42.7% compared to 37.0% for Fiscal 2007. The increase in rate resulted primarily from the Companys limited ability to leverage fixed expenses due to the negative 13% comparable store sales. Additionally, Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases and a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge associated with store related assets. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2008 increased 6.0% to $419.7 million compared to $395.8 million in Fiscal 2007. The increase in expense reflects investments in home office resources necessary for flagship and international expansion, partially offset by savings in incentive compensation and benefits and other home office expenses in the second half of Fiscal 2008. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.9% for Fiscal 2008, an increase of 1.3 percentage points compared to 10.6% for Fiscal 2007. 31 Table of Contents Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $8.9 million compared to $11.7 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily driven by losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2008 compared to gains on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007, as well as a decrease in income related to gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote. Operating Income Fiscal 2008 operating income was $439.4 million compared to $740.5 million for Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2008 was 12.4% compared to 19.7% for Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 interest income was $14.8 million, offset by interest expense of $3.4 million compared to interest income of $19.8 million, offset by interest expense of $1.0 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense in Fiscal 2008 was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 was 39.6% compared to 37.4% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The higher rate was primarily due to the non deductibility, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section 162(m), of certain compensation related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement during the year. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2008 was $272.3 million compared to $475.7 million for Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $3.05 in Fiscal 2008 versus $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. FISCAL 2007 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2006 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008 were $1.229 billion, up 7.9% versus net sales of $1.139 billion for the fourteen week period ended February 3, 2007. The net sales increase was attributed primarily to the net addition of 91 stores and a 46.8% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by an extra selling week in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 and the resulting impact of the calendar shift in Fiscal 2007 due to Fiscal 2006 being a 53 week fiscal year, as well as a 1% decrease in comparable store sales. Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch increased 1% with mens comparable store sales increasing by a low double digit and womens decreasing by a mid single digit; abercrombie decreased 3% with boys increasing by a mid single digit and girls decreasing by a mid single digit; Hollister decreased 2% with dudes increasing by a high single digit and bettys decreasing by a mid single digit; and RUEHL decreased 19% with mens decreasing by a high single digit and womens decreasing by the high twenties. Comparable regional store sales ranged from increases in the high teens to decreases in the mid single digits. Stores located in Canada and the Southwest and North Atlantic regions had the strongest comparable 32 Table of Contents store sales performance, while stores located in the South, Midwest and West regions had the weakest comparable store sales performance on a consolidated basis. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included graphic tees, fragrance and fleece, while pants, jeans and knits posted negative comparable sales. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, stronger performing categories included graphics tees, jeans and sweaters, while knits and fleece posted negative comparable sales. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites and catalogue, in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were $108.6 million, an increase of 45.2% versus the previous years fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $74.8 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007 and $9.8 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 10.1% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 compared to 7.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $825.6 million compared to $755.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 67.2%, up 80 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 rate of 66.4%. The increase in gross profit rate can be attributed to both a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $388.4 million compared to $349.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The stores and distribution expense rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 31.6%, up 90 basis points from 30.7% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase in rate was primarily related to the impact of minimum wage and management salary increases and higher store fixed cost rates. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $103.2 million compared to $101.6 million during the same period in Fiscal 2006. For the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 8.4% compared to 8.9% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease in the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was a result of lower travel, samples and outside service expense rates, partially offset by an increase in the home office payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter net other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $3.0 million compared to $4.6 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease was driven primarily by losses on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 as compared to gains on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. 33 Table of Contents Operating Income Operating income during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 increased to $337.1 million from $308.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.2%. The operating income rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 27.4% compared to 27.1% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Fourth quarter net interest income was $6.4 million in Fiscal 2007 compared to $4.7 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 when compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 36.9% as compared to 36.8% for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $216.8 million versus $198.2 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.4%. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $2.40, versus $2.14 for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period, an increase of 12.2%. FISCAL 2007 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2007 were $3.750 billion, an increase of 13.0% versus Fiscal 2006 net sales of $3.318 billion. The net sales increase was attributed to the combination of the net addition of 91 stores and a 50% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by a 1% comparable store sales decrease and a fifty three week year in Fiscal 2006 versus a fifty two week year in Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2007, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch and abercrombie comparable sales were flat; Hollister decreased 2%; and RUEHL decreased 9%. In addition, the womens, girls and bettys businesses continued to be more significant than the mens, boys and dudes. During Fiscal 2007, womens, girls and bettys represented at least 60% of the net sales for each of their corresponding brands. Direct to consumer merchandise net sales in Fiscal 2007 were $258.9 million, an increase of 49% versus Fiscal 2006 net merchandise sales of $174.1 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007 and $24.9 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007 compared to 6.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. 34 Table of Contents Gross Profit For Fiscal 2007, gross profit increased to $2.511 billion from $2.209 billion in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2007 was 67.0% versus 66.6% the previous year, an increase of 40 basis points. The increase in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2007 was $1.387 billion compared to $1.187 billion for Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the stores and distribution expense rate was 37.0% compared to 35.8% in the previous year. The increase in rate resulted primarily from store payroll, including minimum wage and store manager salary increases, higher store fixed cost rates and store packaging and supply expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2007 was $395.8 million compared to $373.8 million in Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 10.6%, a decrease of 70 basis points compared to Fiscal 2006s rate of 11.3%. The decrease in rate resulted from reductions in travel, samples and outside services expense rates, partially offset by the increase in payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $11.7 million compared to $10.0 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily related to gift cards for which the Company determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote, partially offset by decreases in gains related to foreign currency transactions. The comparable period in Fiscal 2006 included other operating income related to insurance reimbursements for a fire damaged store and a store damaged by Hurricane Katrina. Operating Income Fiscal 2007 operating income was $740.5 million compared to $658.1 million for Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.5%. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2007 was 19.7% versus 19.8% in the previous year. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Net interest income for Fiscal 2007 was $18.8 million compared to $13.9 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during Fiscal 2007 compared to Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007 was 37.4% compared to 37.2% for Fiscal 2006. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2007 was $475.7 million versus $422.2 million in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.7%. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $5.20 in Fiscal 2007 versus $4.59 in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 13.3%. 35 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had $522.1 million in cash and equivalents available as of January 31, 2009, as well as an additional $350 million available (less outstanding letters of credit) under its unsecured credit agreement, as described in Note 13, Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 6 Table of Contents Competition. The sale of apparel and personal care products through brick and mortar stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. As the Company continues its international expansion, it will also face competition in European, Asian and other international markets from established regional and national chains, as well as specialty stores. Brand recognition, fashion, price, service, store location, selection and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store and direct to consumer sales. The competitive challenges facing the Company include anticipating and quickly responding to changing fashion trends; and maintaining the aspirational positioning of its brands so it can sustain its premium pricing position. Furthermore, the Company faces additional competitive challenges as many retailers increase promotional activity as a result of current economic conditions, while the Companys policy continues to be not to engage in promotional activities that the Company believes could diminish the value of the brands. Associate Relations. As of March 20, 2009, the Company employed approximately 83,000 associates, none of whom were party to a collective bargaining agreement. Approximately 73,000 of these associates were part time employees. On average, the Company employed approximately 22,000 full time equivalents during Fiscal 2008 which included approximately 13,000 full time equivalents comprised of part time employees, including temporary associates hired during peak periods, such as the Back to School and Holiday seasons. The Company believes it maintains a good relationship with its associates. However, in the normal course of business, the Company is party to lawsuits involving former and current associates. Refer to ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward Looking Statements And Risk Factors. The Company cautions that any forward looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which may be beyond the Companys control. Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, expect, anticipate, intend and similar expressions may identify forward looking statements. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward looking statements. The following factors could affect the Companys financial performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward looking statements: effects of the current financial crisis and general economic conditions which impact consumer confidence and purchases and the level of consumer discretionary spending; effects of changes in the U.S. credit and lending market conditions; loss of services of skilled senior executive officers; 7 Table of Contents ability to hire, train and retain qualified associates; changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; ability to develop innovative, high quality new merchandise in response to changing fashion trends; the impact of competition and pricing pressures; availability and market prices of key raw materials; interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers and the flow of merchandise to and from distributors; ability of manufacturers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and ethical business practices; availability of suitable store locations under appropriate terms; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; unseasonable weather conditions affecting consumer preferences; disruptive weather conditions affecting consumers ability to shop; and effect of litigation exposure potentially exceeding expectations. The following sets forth a description of certain risk factors that the Company believes may be relevant to an understanding of the Company and its business. These risk factors, in addition to the factors set forth above, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the Companys forward looking statements. The Current Financial Crisis and General Economic Conditions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Business, Results of Operations and Liquidity. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the Companys merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The Companys performance is subject to factors that affect worldwide economic conditions including employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on recent severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies and other macroeconomic factors. Recently, these factors have caused consumer spending to deteriorate significantly and may cause levels of spending to remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These factors may cause consumers to purchase products from lower priced competitors or to defer purchases of apparel and personal care products altogether. The economic downturn could have a material effect on the Companys results of operations and its liquidity and capital resources. It could also impact the Companys ability to fund its growth and or result in the Company becoming reliant on external financing, the availability of which may be uncertain. In addition, the current economic environment may exacerbate some of the risk noted below, including consumer demand, strain on available resources, international growth strategy, store growth, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The risks could be exacerbated individually or collectively. 8 Table of Contents The Loss of the Services of Skilled Senior Executive Officers Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Business. The Companys senior executive officers closely supervise all aspects of its business in particular, the design of its merchandise and the operation of its stores. The Companys senior executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of the Companys brands. If the Company were to lose the benefit of their involvement, in particular the services of any one or more of Michael S. Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Diane Chang, Executive Vice President Sourcing, Leslee K. Herro, Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation, Jonathan E. Ramsden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, David S. Cupps, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and Charles Chad Kessler, Executive Vice President Female Merchandising, its business could be adversely affected. Competition for such senior executive officers is intense, and the Company cannot be sure it will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified senior executive officers in future periods. Equity Based Compensation Awarded Under the Employment Agreement with the Companys Chief Executive Officer Could Adversely Impact the Companys Cash Flows, Financial Position or Results of Operations and Could Have a Dilutive Effect on the Companys Outstanding Common Stock. Under the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, between the Company and Michael S. Jeffries, the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the Jeffries Employment Agreement), Mr. Jeffries is entitled to receive a grant (the Retention Grant) of stock options or stock appreciation rights (in the Companys discretion) covering an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of Common Stock. In addition to the Retention Grant, Mr. Jeffries is also eligible to receive two equity based grants in respect of each fiscal year of the term of the Jeffries Employment Agreement starting with Fiscal 2009 (the Semi Annual Grants). If a Semi Annual Grant is earned, it will be awarded within 75 days following the end of the Companys second quarter or fiscal year, as applicable, subject to Mr. Jeffries continuous employment with the Company (and, with respect to the final Semi Annual Grant, continued service on the Companys Board of Directors) through the applicable grant date. The value of the Semi Annual Grants are uncertain and dependent on future market price of the Companys Common Stock and the financial performance of the Company. In connection with the Retention Grant and the Semi Annual Grants contemplated by the Jeffries Employment Agreement, the related compensation expense could significantly impact the Companys results of operations. Further, the significant number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued upon exercise and or vesting of the Retention Grant and the Semi Annual Grants is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of the Companys Common Stock and the financial performance of the Company and would, if issued, have a dilutive effect with respect to the Companys outstanding shares of Common Stock, which may adversely affect the market price of the Companys Common Stock. Depending on the number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued under the Retention Grant and Semi Annual Grants, the Company may deem it necessary or appropriate to seek shareholder approval of additional long term incentive compensation plans in order to be able to settle the awards in Common Stock. In the event that there are not sufficient shares of Common Stock available to be issued under the Companys 2007 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2007 LTIP) or under a successor or replacement plan at the time these equity based awards are ultimately settled, the Company will be required to settle some portion of the awards in cash, which could have an adverse impact on the Companys cash flow from operations, financial position and results of operations. In addition, under applicable accounting rules, if 9 Table of Contents the Companys stock price increases to a point where, as of any measurement date, the Company would be unable to settle outstanding equity based awards in shares of Common Stock from such plans, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, the Company will be required to classify and account for all or a portion of the equity based awards as liabilities. This could further adversely impact the Companys results of operations. The Failure to Anticipate, Identify and Respond to Changing Consumer Preferences and Fashion Trends in a Timely Manner Could Cause the Companys Profitability to Decline. The Companys success largely depends on its ability to anticipate and gauge the fashion preferences of its customers and provide merchandise that satisfies constantly shifting demands in a timely manner. The merchandise must appeal to each brands corresponding target market of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Because the Company enters into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, it is vulnerable to changes in consumer preference and demand, pricing shifts and the sub optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to successfully anticipate consumer demands in the future. To the extent that the Company fails to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, its sales will be adversely affected. Inventory levels for certain merchandise styles no longer considered to be on trend may increase, leading to higher markdowns to reduce excess inventory or increases in inventory valuation reserves. The current economic and retail environment, in which many of the Companys competitors are engaging in aggressive promotional activities, exacerbates the importance of changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. Each of these could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Market Share may be Adversely Impacted at any Time by a Significant Number of Competitors. The sale of apparel and personal care products through brick and mortar stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. The Company faces a variety of competitive challenges, including: maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing its products to consumers in several diverse demographic markets; sourcing merchandise efficiently; and countering the aggressive promotional activities of many of the Companys competitors without diminishing the aspirational nature of the Companys brands and brand equity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. The Interruption of the Flow of Merchandise from Key Vendors and International Manufacturers Could Disrupt the Companys Supply Chain. The Company purchases the majority of its merchandise outside of the U.S. through arrangements with approximately 210 vendors which include 314 foreign manufacturers located throughout the world, primarily in Asia and Central and South America. In addition, many of the Companys domestic manufacturers maintain production facilities overseas. Political, social or economic instability in Asia, Central or South America, or in other regions in which the Companys manufacturers are located, could cause disruptions in 10 Table of Contents trade, including exports to the U.S. Other events that could also cause disruptions to exports to the U.S. include: the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements; foreign currency fluctuations; restrictions on the transfer of funds; the potential of manufacturer financial instability or bankruptcy; and significant labor disputes, such as dock strikes. In addition, the Company cannot predict whether the countries in which its merchandise is manufactured, or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to the Company and adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company Does not Own or Operate any Manufacturing Facilities and Therefore Depends Upon Independent Third Parties for the Manufacture of all its Merchandise. The Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. As a result, the continued success of the Companys operations is tied to its timely receipt of quality merchandise from third party manufacturers. A manufacturers inability to ship orders in a timely manner or meet the Companys quality standards could cause delays in responding to consumer demands and negatively affect consumer confidence in the quality and value of the Companys brands or negatively impact the Companys competitive position, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the Company is susceptible to increases in sourcing costs from manufacturers which the Company may not be able to pass on to the customer and could adversely affect the Companys financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Reliance on Two Distribution Centers Located in the Same Vicinity Makes it Susceptible to Disruptions or Adverse Conditions Affecting its Distribution Centers. The Companys two DCs, located in New Albany, Ohio, manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to its stores and direct to consumer customers, both regionally and internationally. The Company also uses a third party DC in the United Kingdom for the distribution of a portion of the merchandise delivered to the Abercrombie Fitch flagship and Hollister stores located in the United Kingdom. As a result, the Companys operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as system failures, accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. If the Companys distribution operations were disrupted, its ability to replace inventory in its stores and process direct to consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. 11 Table of Contents The Companys Reliance on Third Parties to Deliver Merchandise from its Distribution Centers to its Stores and Direct to Consumer Customers Could Result in Disruptions to its Business. The efficient operations of the Companys stores and direct to consumer operations depend on the timely receipt of merchandise from the Companys DCs. The Company delivers its merchandise to its stores and direct to consumer customers using independent third parties, primarily one contract carrier. The independent third parties employ personnel that may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to the Companys distribution needs would disrupt its operations and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Growth Strategy Relies on the Addition of New Stores, Which May Strain the Companys Resources and Adversely Impact the Current Store Base Performance. The Companys growth strategy largely depends on the opening of new stores, particularly internationally, remodeling existing stores in a timely manner and operating them profitably. Additional factors required for the successful implementation of the Companys growth strategy include, but are not limited to, obtaining desirable prime store locations, negotiating acceptable leases, completing projects on budget, supplying proper levels of merchandise and successfully hiring and training store managers and sales associates. Additionally, the Companys growth strategy may place increased demands on the Companys operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could cause the Company to operate less efficiently. Furthermore, there is a possibility that new stores opened in existing markets may have an adverse effect on previously existing stores in such markets. Failure to properly implement the Companys growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. The Companys Development of New Brand Concepts Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Financial Condition or Results of Operations. Historically, the Company has internally developed and launched new brands that have contributed to the Companys sales growth. Each new brand concept requires managements focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. Furthermore, each new brand concept is susceptible to risks that include lack of customer acceptance, competition from existing or new retailers, product differentiation, production and distribution inefficiencies and unanticipated operating issues. There is no assurance that new brand concepts will achieve successful results. Any new brand concept that is not successfully launched could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the ongoing development of new concepts, including Ruehl and Gilly Hicks, may place a strain on the Companys available resources. The Companys International Expansion Plan is Dependent on a Number of Factors, any of Which Could Delay or Prevent the Successful Penetration into New Markets and Strain its Resources. As the Company expands internationally, it may incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and DCs, as well as hiring experienced management. The Company may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, and its growth will be limited, unless it can: identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; 12 Table of Contents negotiate acceptable lease terms; hire, train and retain competent store personnel; gain acceptance from its foreign customers; foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; expand its infrastructure to accommodate growth; generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund its expansion plan; manage its foreign currency exchange risks effectively; and achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores. In addition, the Companys international expansion plan will place increased demands on its operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands may cause the Company to operate its business less efficiently, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of its existing stores. Furthermore, the Companys ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. The Companys international expansion strategy and success could be adversely impacted by the global economy. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Adversely Impact Financial Results. The Companys international operations use local currencies as the functional currency. Such foreign currency transactions are denominated in Euros, Canadian Dollars, Japanese Yen, Danish Krones, Swiss Francs, Hong Kong Dollars and British Pounds. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, income, expenses, assets and liabilities from local currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will impact the Companys financial results. In order to mitigate the risk of foreign currency exchange rate exposures, the Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts. However, the Company cannot guarantee that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not materially affect financial results. The Companys Net Sales and Inventory Levels Fluctuate on a Seasonal Basis, Causing its Results of Operations to be Particularly Susceptible to Changes in Back to School and Holiday Shopping Patterns. Historically, the Companys operations have been seasonal, with a significant amount of net sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the increased sales during the Holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third fiscal quarter, reflecting increased sales during the Back to School selling season. The Companys net sales and net income during the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower, due, in part, to the traditional retail slowdown immediately following the Holiday season. As a result of this seasonality, net sales and net income during any fiscal quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of the Companys annual results. Any factors negatively affecting the Company during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, such as those faced in Fiscal 2008, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations for the entire year. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, in order to prepare for the Back to School and Holiday selling seasons, the Company must order and keep significantly more merchandise in stock than it would carry during other parts of the year. Therefore, the inability to accurately plan for product demand and merchandise allocation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. High inventory levels due to unanticipated decreases in demand for the Companys products during peak selling seasons, misidentification of fashion trends or excess inventory purchases could require the Company to sell merchandise at a substantial markdown, which could reduce its net sales and gross margins and negatively impact its profitability. The Companys Ability to Attract Customers to its Stores Depends Heavily on the Success of the Shopping Centers in Which They are Located. In order to generate customer traffic, the Company locates many of its stores in prominent locations within successful shopping centers. The Company cannot control the development of new shopping centers; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers. All of these factors may impact the Companys ability to meet its growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Comparable Store Sales Have Been Negatively Affected by the Economy and Will Continue to Fluctuate on a Regular Basis. The Companys comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and the square footage of which has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20%, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. During the past three fiscal years, comparable sales results have fluctuated as follows: (a) from (13%) to 2% for annual results; (b) from (25%) to 6% for quarterly results; and (c) from (28%) to 17% for monthly results. The Companys comparable store sales were particularly adversely affected by the economy and our competitors promotional activities in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 and continue to be adversely affected to date in Fiscal 2009. The Company believes that a variety of factors affect comparable store sales results including, but not limited to, fashion trends, actions by competitors, economic conditions, weather conditions, opening and or closing of Company stores near each other, and the calendar shifts of tax free and holiday periods. Comparable store fluctuations may impact the Companys ability to leverage fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect the Companys financial condition or results of operations. In addition, comparable store sales fluctuations may have been an important factor in the volatility of the price of the Companys Class A Common Stock in the past, and it is likely that future comparable store sales fluctuations will contribute to stock price volatility in the future. The Companys Net Sales are Affected by Direct to Consumer Sales. The Company sells merchandise over the Internet through its websites: www.Abercrombie.com; www.abercrombiekids.com; www.hollisterco.com; www.RUEHL.com; and www.gillyhicks.com. The Companys Internet operations may be affected by reliance on third party hardware and software providers, technology changes, risks related to the failure of computer systems that operate the Internet business, telecommunications failures, electronic break ins and similar disruptions. Furthermore, the Companys ability to conduct business on the Internet may be affected by liability for on line content and state and federal privacy laws. 14 Table of Contents The Companys Litigation Exposure Could Exceed Expectations, Having a Material Adverse Effect on the Companys Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The Company is involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to its business, such as litigation regarding overtime compensation and other employment related matters. Additionally, the Company is involved in several purported class action lawsuits and several shareholder derivative actions alleged to have arisen out of trading in the Companys Class A Common Stock in the summer of Fiscal 2005 (collectively, the Securities Matters, see ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Management is unable to assess the potential exposure of the aforesaid matters. The Companys current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with managements evaluation of the claims. Should managements evaluation prove incorrect, the Companys exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. The Companys Failure to Adequately Protect Its Trademarks Could Have a Negative Impact on Its Brand Image and Limit Its Ability to Penetrate New Markets. The Company believes its trademarks, Abercrombie Fitch, abercrombie, Hollister Co., Ruehl No. 925, Gilly Hicks and the Moose, Seagull, Bulldog and Koala logos, are an essential element of the Companys strategy. The Company has obtained or applied for federal registration of these trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, the Company owns registrations and pending applications for other trademarks in the U.S. and has applied for or obtained registrations from the registries in many foreign countries in which its manufacturers are located. There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain registrations that have been applied for or that the registrations the Company obtains will prevent the imitation of its products or infringement of its intellectual property rights by others. If any third party copies the Companys products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, the Companys brand image could be materially adversely affected. Because the Company has not yet registered all of its trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which it sources or offers its merchandise now or may in the future, its international expansion and its merchandising of products using these marks could be limited. For example, the Company cannot ensure that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of its products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. The pending applications for international registration of various trademarks could be challenged or rejected in those countries because third parties of whom the Company is not currently aware have already registered similar marks in those countries. Accordingly, it may be possible, in those foreign countries where the status of various applications is pending or unclear, for a third party owner of the national trademark registration for a similar mark to prohibit the manufacture, sale or exportation of branded goods in or from that country. If the Company is unable to reach an arrangement with any such party, the Companys manufacturers may be unable to manufacture its products, and the Company may be unable to sell in those countries. The Companys inability to register its trademarks or purchase or license the right to use its trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit its ability to obtain supplies from, or manufacture in, less costly markets or penetrate new markets should the Companys business plan include selling its merchandise in those non U.S. jurisdictions. The Company has an anti counterfeiting program, under the auspices of the Abercrombie Fitch Brand Protection Team, whose goal is to eliminate the supply of illegal pieces of the Companys products. The Brand 15 Table of Contents Protection Team interacts with investigators, customs officials and law enforcement entities throughout the world to combat the illegal use of the Companys trademarks. Although brand security initiatives are being taken, the Company cannot guarantee that its efforts against the counterfeiting of its brands will be successful. The Companys Unsecured Credit Agreement Includes Financial and Other Covenants that Impose Restrictions on its Financial and Business Operations. The Companys unsecured credit agreement expires on April 12, 2013 and market conditions could potentially impact the size and terms of a replacement facility. In addition, the unsecured credit agreement contains financial covenants that require the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If the Company fails to comply with the covenants and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result and the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. If that should occur, the Company cannot guarantee that it would have sufficient liquidity, at that time, to repay or refinance borrowings under the unsecured credit agreement. The inability to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms or a default under the current unsecured credit agreement could adversely impact liquidity and results of operations. Changes in Taxation Requirements Could Adversely Impact Financial Results. The Company is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions, including international and domestic locations. In addition, the Companys products are subject to import and excise duties and or sales or value added taxes in many jurisdictions. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Modifications and or Upgrades to Information Technology Systems may Disrupt Operations. The Company regularly evaluates its information technology systems and requirements and is currently implementing modifications and or upgrades to the information technology systems that support the business. Modifications include replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. The Company is aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information and system disruptions. The Company believes it is taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver value to the Company. Our Business Could Suffer if the Companys Computer Systems are Disrupted or Cease to Operate Effectively. The Company relies heavily on its computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate the Companys operations. Given the significant number of transactions that are completed annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of the computer hardware and software systems. Despite efforts to prevent such an occurrence, the Companys systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. If our systems are 16 Table of Contents damaged or fail to function properly, the Company may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the systems and the Company could endure delays in its operations. Any material interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. The Companys headquarters and support functions occupy 474 acres, consisting of the home office and distribution and shipping facilities centralized on a campus like setting in New Albany, Ohio and an additional small distribution and shipping facility located in the Columbus, Ohio area, all which are owned by the Company. Additionally, the Company leases small facilities to house its design and sourcing support centers in Hong Kong, New York City and Los Angeles, California, as well as offices in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Switzerland and Italy for its European operations. All of the retail stores operated by the Company, as of March 20, 2009, are located in leased facilities, primarily in shopping centers throughout the U.S., Canada and the U.K. As of March 20, 2009, the Company operated two stand alone flagships with one in New York, New York and one in the U.K. The leases expire at various dates, between 2009 and 2028. The Companys home office, distribution and shipping facilities, design support centers and stores are generally suitable and adequate. As of March 20, 2009, the Companys 1,127 stores were located in 49 states, the District of Columbia, Canada and the U.K., as follows: Alabama 15 Kentucky 14 North Dakota 2 Alaska 1 Louisiana 15 Ohio 41 Arizona 17 Maine 4 Oklahoma 10 Arkansas 7 Maryland 20 Oregon 15 California 140 Massachusetts 35 Pennsylvania 49 Colorado 12 Michigan 34 Rhode Island 4 Connecticut 22 Minnesota 24 South Carolina 15 Delaware 4 Mississippi 6 South Dakota 2 District of Columbia 1 Missouri 20 Tennessee 24 Florida 77 Montana 3 Texas 103 Georgia 29 Nebraska 6 Utah 7 Hawaii 5 Nevada 15 Vermont 2 Idaho 4 New Hampshire 11 Virginia 28 Illinois 50 New Jersey 42 Washington 24 Indiana 26 New Mexico 4 West Virginia 5 Iowa 8 New York 58 Wisconsin 16 Kansas 6 North Carolina 30 Canada 11 U.K. 4 17 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. AF is a defendant in lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. On June 23, 2006, Lisa Hashimoto, et al. v. Abercrombie Fitch Co. and Abercrombie Fitch Stores, Inc., was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles. In that action, plaintiffs alleged, on behalf of a putative class of California store managers employed in Hollister and abercrombie stores, that they were entitled to receive overtime pay as non exempt employees under California wage and hour laws. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, equitable relief, unpaid overtime compensation, unpaid benefits, penalties, interest and attorneys fees and costs. The defendants answered the complaint on August 21, 2006, denying liability. On June 23, 2008 the defendants settled all claims of Hollister and abercrombie store managers who served in stores from June 23, 2002 through April 30, 2004, but continued to oppose the plaintiffs remaining claims. On July 29, 2008 the Court certified a class consisting of all store managers who served at Hollister and abercrombie stores in California from May 1, 2004 through the future date upon which the action concludes. The parties are continuing to litigate the claims of that putative class. On September 2, 2005, a purported class action, styled Robert Ross v. Abercrombie Fitch Company, et al., was filed against AF and certain of its officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio on behalf of a purported class of all persons who purchased or acquired shares of AFs Common Stock between June 2, 2005 and August 16, 2005. In September and October of 2005, five other purported class actions were subsequently filed against AF and other defendants in the same Court. All six securities cases allege claims under the federal securities laws related to sales of Common Stock by certain defendants and to a decline in the price of AFs Common Stock during the summer of 2005, allegedly as a result of misstatements attributable to AF. Plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages. On November 1, 2005, a motion to consolidate all of these purported class actions into the first filed case was filed by some of the plaintiffs. AF joined in that motion. On March 22, 2006, the motions to consolidate were granted, and these actions (together with the federal court derivative cases described in the following paragraph) were consolidated for purposes of motion practice, discovery and pretrial proceedings. A consolidated amended securities class action complaint (the Complaint) was filed on August 14, 2006. On October 13, 2006, all defendants moved to dismiss that Complaint. On August 9, 2007, the Court denied the motions to dismiss. On September 14, 2007, defendants filed answers denying the material allegations of the Complaint and asserting affirmative defenses. On October 26, 2007, plaintiffs moved to certify their purported class. After briefings and argument, the motion was submitted on March 24, 2009. On September 16, 2005, a derivative action, styled The Booth Family Trust v. Michael S. Jeffries, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, naming AF as a nominal defendant and seeking to assert claims for unspecified damages against nine of AFs present and former directors, alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty and seeking equitable and monetary relief. In the following three months (October, November and December of 2005), four similar derivative actions were filed (three in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio and one in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio) against present and former directors of AF alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty allegedly arising out of the same matters alleged in the Ross case and seeking equitable and monetary relief on behalf of AF. AF is also a nominal defendant in each of the four later derivative actions. On November 4, 2005, a motion to consolidate all of the federal court derivative actions with the purported securities law class actions described in the preceding paragraph was filed. On March 22, 2006, the motion to consolidate was granted, and the federal court derivative actions have been consolidated with the aforesaid purported securities law class actions for purposes of motion practice, 18 Table of Contents discovery and pretrial proceedings. A consolidated amended derivative complaint was filed in the federal proceeding on July 10, 2006. AF filed a motion to stay the consolidated federal derivative case and that motion was granted. The state court action was also stayed. On February 16, 2007, AF announced that its Board of Directors had received a report of the Special Litigation Committee established by the Board to investigate and act with respect to claims asserted in certain previously disclosed derivative lawsuits brought against current and former directors and management, including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael S. Jeffries. The Special Litigation Committee concluded that there is no evidence to support the asserted claims and directed the Company to seek dismissal of the derivative actions. On September 10, 2007, the Company moved to dismiss the federal derivative cases on the authority of the Special Litigation Committee report and on October 18, 2007, the state court stayed further proceedings until resolution of the consolidated federal derivative cases. The Companys motion was granted on March 12, 2009. Management intends to defend the aforesaid matters vigorously, as appropriate. Management is unable to quantify the potential exposure of the aforesaid matters. However, managements assessment of the Companys current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with managements evaluation of the claims. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. None. SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. Set forth below is certain information regarding the executive officers of AF as of March 20, 2009. Michael S. Jeffries, 64, has been Chairman of AF since May 1998. Mr. Jeffries has been Chief Executive Officer of AF since February 1992. From February 1992 to May 1998, Mr. Jeffries held the position of President of AF. Under the terms of the Employment Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008, between AF and Mr. Jeffries, AF is obligated to cause Mr. Jeffries to be nominated as a director of AF during his employment term. Diane Chang, 53, has been Executive Vice President Sourcing of AF since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Chang held the position of Senior Vice President Sourcing of AF from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Sourcing of AF from May 1998 to February 2000. Leslee K. Herro, 48, has been Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation of AF since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Herro held the position of Senior Vice President Planning and Allocation of AF from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Planning Allocation of AF from February 1994 to February 2000. Jonathan E. Ramsden, 44, joined AF in December 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From December 1998 to December 2008, Mr. Ramsden had served as the Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive Committee of TBWA Worldwide, a large advertising agency network and a division of Omnicom Group Inc. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer of TWBA Worldwide, he served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Omnicom Group Inc. from June 1996 to December 1998. 19 Table of Contents David S. Cupps, 72, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of AF since April 2007. Prior thereto, he was a partner in the law firm of Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP from January 1974 through December 2006 and Of Counsel to that law firm from January 2007 through March 2007. Chad F. Kessler, 36, has been Executive Vice President Female Merchandising since November 2008. Prior thereto, Mr. Kessler held the position of Senior Vice President Female Merchandising from August 2007 to November 2008, the position of Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager, Hollister from May 2005 to August 2007 and the position of Vice President of Merchandising from May 2003 to May 2005. The executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of AF and, in the case of Mr. Jeffries, pursuant to an employment agreement. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. AFs Class A Common Stock (the Common Stock) is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANF. The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of AFs Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007: Sales Price High Low Fiscal 2008 4th Quarter $ 29.97 $ 13.66 3rd Quarter $ 56.74 $ 23.75 2nd Quarter $ 77.25 $ 51.45 1st Quarter $ 82.06 $ 69.55 Fiscal 2007 4th Quarter $ 84.54 $ 66.05 3rd Quarter $ 85.77 $ 67.91 2nd Quarter $ 84.16 $ 67.72 1st Quarter $ 84.92 $ 71.75 A quarterly dividend, of $0.175 per share, was paid in March, June, September and December of Fiscal 2006, Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2008. AF expects to continue to pay a dividend, subject to the Board of Directors review of the Companys cash position and results of operations. As of March 20, 2009, there were approximately 4,655 stockholders of record. However, when including investors holding shares in broker accounts under street name, active associates who participate in AFs stock purchase plan, and associates who own shares through AF sponsored retirement plans, AF estimates that there are approximately 45,000 stockholders. 20 Table of Contents The following table provides information regarding the purchase of shares of the Common Stock of AF made by or on behalf of AF or any affiliated purchaser as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, during each fiscal month of the quarterly period ended January 31, 2009: Total Number of Shares Purchased as Maximum Number of Total Number Average Part of Publicly Shares that May Yet Be of Shares Price Paid Announced Plans or Purchased under the Fiscal Month Purchased(1) per Share(2) Programs(3) Plans or Programs(4) November 2, 2008 November 29, 2008 884 $ 17.90 11,346,900 November 30, 2008 January 3, 2009 1,515 $ 18.96 11,346,900 January 4, 2009 January 31, 2009 420,594 $ 23.07 11,346,900 Totals 422,993 $ 23.05 11,346,900 (1) Included in the total number of shares of AFs Common Stock purchased during the quarterly period (thirteen week period) ended January 31, 2009 were an aggregate of 422,993 shares which were withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of employee restricted stock units and restricted stock awards. The amount shown for the fiscal month from January 4, 2009 to January 31, 2009 includes 419,500 shares withheld to satisfy the tax withholding obligation upon the vesting of the 1,000,000 career share award made to the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of January 30, 2003, with AF. (2) The average price paid per share includes broker commissions, as applicable. (3) There were no shares purchased pursuant to AFs publicly announced stock repurchase authorizations during the quarterly period (thirteen week period) ended January 31, 2009. On August 16, 2005, AF announced the August 15, 2005 authorization by AFs Board of Directors to repurchase 6.0 million shares of AFs Common Stock. On November 21, 2007, AF announced the November 20, 2007 authorization by AFs Board of Directors to repurchase 10.0 million shares of AFs Common Stock, in addition to the approximately 2.0 million shares of AFs Common Stock which remained available under the August 2005 authorization as of November 20, 2007. (4) The figure shown represents, as of the end of each period, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may yet be purchased under AFs publicly announced stock repurchase authorizations described in footnote 3 above. The shares may be purchased, from time to time, depending on market conditions. During Fiscal 2008, AF repurchased approximately 0.7 million shares of AFs Common Stock with a value of approximately $50.0 million. During Fiscal 2007, AF repurchased approximately 3.6 million shares of AFs Common Stock with a value of approximately $287.9 million. AF did not repurchase any shares of AFs Common Stock during Fiscal 2006. Both the Fiscal 2008 and the Fiscal 2007 repurchases were pursuant to AF Board of Directors authorizations. As shown in the table set forth above, AF did not repurchase any shares of AFs Common Stock during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009 pursuant to the publicly announced stock purchase authorizations. 21 Table of Contents The following graph shows the changes, over the five year period ended January 31, 2009 (the last day of AFs 2008 fiscal year), in the value of $100 invested in (i) shares of AFs Common Stock; (ii) the Standard Poors 500 Stock Index (the SP 500 Index) and (iii) the Standard Poors Apparel Retail Composite Index (the SP Apparel Retail Index), including reinvestment of dividends. The plotted points represent the closing price on the last day of the fiscal year indicated (and if such day was not a trading day, the closing price on the last day immediately preceding a trading day). PERFORMANCE GRAPH1 COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Abercrombie Fitch Co., The SP 500 Index And The SP Apparel Retail Index * $100 invested on 1/31/04 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Indexes calculated on month end basis. Copyright 2009 Dow Jones Co. All rights reserved. 1 This graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to SEC Regulation 14A or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), except to the extent that AF specifically requests that the graph be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. ABERCROMBIE FITCH CO. FINANCIAL SUMMARY 2008 2007 2006* 2005 2004 (Thousands, except per share and per square foot amounts, ratios and store and associate data) Fiscal Year Summary of Operations Net Sales $ 3,540,276 $ 3,749,847 $ 3,318,158 $ 2,784,711 $ 2,021,253 Gross Profit $ 2,361,692 $ 2,511,367 $ 2,209,006 $ 1,851,416 $ 1,341,224 Operating Income $ 439,386 $ 740,497 $ 658,090 $ 542,738 $ 347,635 Operating Income as a Percentage of Net Sales 12.4 % 19.7 % 19.8 % 19.5 % 17.2 % Net Income $ 272,255 $ 475,697 $ 422,186 $ 333,986 $ 216,376 Net Income as a Percentage of Net Sales 7.7 % 12.7 % 12.7 % 12.0 % 10.7 % Dividends Declared Per Share $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.60 $ 0.50 Net Income Per Weighted Average Share Results Basic $ 3.14 $ 5.45 $ 4.79 $ 3.83 $ 2.33 Diluted $ 3.05 $ 5.20 $ 4.59 $ 3.66 $ 2.28 Diluted Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 89,291 91,523 92,010 91,221 95,110 Other Financial Information Total Assets $ 2,848,181 $ 2,567,598 $ 2,248,067 $ 1,789,718 $ 1,386,791 Return on Average Assets 10 % 20 % 21 % 21 % 16 % Working Capital $ 635,028 $ 597,142 $ 581,451 $ 455,530 $ 241,572 Current Ratio 2.41 2.10 2.14 1.93 1.56 Net Cash Provided from Operations $ 490,836 $ 817,524 $ 582,171 $ 453,590 $ 423,784 Capital Expenditures $ 367,602 $ 403,345 $ 403,476 $ 256,422 $ 185,065 Long Term Debt $ 100,000 Shareholders Equity $ 1,845,578 $ 1,618,313 $ 1,405,297 $ 995,117 $ 669,326 Return on Average Shareholders Equity 16 % 31 % 35 % 40 % 28 % Comparable Store Sales** (13 )% (1 )% 2 % 26 % 2 % Net Retail Sales Per Average Gross Square Foot $ 425 $ 489 $ 500 $ 464 $ 360 Stores at End of Year and Average Associates Total Number of Stores Open 1,125 1,035 944 851 788 Gross Square Feet 8,022,000 7,337,000 6,693,000 6,025,000 5,590,000 Average Number of Associates 96,200 94,600 80,100 69,100 48,500 * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. ** A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Note that Fiscal 2006 comparable store sales are compared to store sales for the comparable fifty three weeks ended February 4, 2006. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty two week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty three week year. A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 included fifty two weeks and Fiscal 2006 included fifty three weeks. For purposes of this ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 are compared to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. Fiscal 2008 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. For Fiscal 2007, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 are compared to the fourteen and fifty three week periods ended February 3, 2007. Fiscal 2007 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 3, 2007. The Company had net sales of $3.540 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 31, 2009, down 5.6% from $3.750 billion for the fifty two weeks ended February 2, 2008. Operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $439.4 million, including a non cash charge of $30.6 million associated with the impairment of store related assets, which was down from $740.5 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income was $272.3 million in Fiscal 2008, down 42.8% from $475.7 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted share was $3.05 for Fiscal 2008, compared to $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 net income per diluted share included a non cash charge of approximately $0.21 per diluted share associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of approximately $0.11 per diluted share related to the execution of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement. The Company generated cash from operations of $490.8 million in Fiscal 2008 down from $817.5 million in Fiscal 2007. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction in net income, the increase in inventory on hand in Fiscal 2008, compared to a reduction of inventory on hand in Fiscal 2007, and a reduction of income taxes and accounts payable. During Fiscal 2008, the Company used cash from operations to finance its growth strategy, including the opening of two new Abercrombie Fitch stores, 66 new Hollister stores, 12 new abercrombie stores, six new RUEHL stores, and 11 new Gilly Hicks stores, as well as investments in home office resources and infrastructure to support the Companys international expansion. The Company also used cash in Fiscal 2008 to pay dividends of $0.70 per share, for a total of $60.8 million and to repurchase approximately 0.7 million shares of AF Common Stock with a value of approximately $50.0 million. In Fiscal 2008, the Company borrowed $100.0 million under the Companys unsecured credit agreement to supplement cash from operations. 24 Table of Contents The following data represents the Companys Consolidated Statements of Net Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2008 2007 2006* NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 33.3 33.0 33.4 GROSS PROFIT 66.7 67.0 66.6 Stores and Distribution Expense 42.7 37.0 35.8 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 11.9 10.6 11.3 Other Operating Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (0.3 ) OPERATING INCOME 12.4 19.7 19.8 Interest Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.5 ) (0.4 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 12.7 20.2 20.3 Provision for Income Taxes 5.0 7.6 7.5 NET INCOME 7.7 % 12.7 % 12.7 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. 25 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and operational data compares Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2007 to Fiscal 2006: Change 2008 2007 2006* 2008 2007 2007 2006 Net sales by brand (thousands) $ 3,540,276 $ 3,749,847 $ 3,318,158 (6 )% 13 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 1,531,480 $ 1,638,929 $ 1,515,123 (7 )% 8 % abercrombie $ 420,518 $ 471,045 $ 405,820 (11 )% 16 % Hollister $ 1,514,204 $ 1,589,452 $ 1,363,233 (5 )% 17 % RUEHL $ 56,218 $ 50,191 $ 33,982 12 % 48 % Gilly Hicks*** $ 17,856 $ 230 n/a n/a n/a Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales** (13 )% (1 )% 2 % Abercrombie Fitch (8 )% 0 % (4 )% abercrombie (19 )% 0 % 10 % Hollister (17 )% (2 )% 5 % RUEHL (23 )% (9 )% 14 % Net retail sales increase attributable to new and remodeled stores, and websites 7 % 14 % 17 % Net retail sales per average store (thousands) $ 3,018 $ 3,470 $ 3,533 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 3,878 $ 4,073 $ 3,945 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 1,823 $ 2,230 $ 2,251 (18 )% (1 )% Hollister $ 2,962 $ 3,550 $ 3,732 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL $ 2,039 $ 2,602 $ 3,248 (22 )% (20 )% Net retail sales per average gross square foot $ 425 $ 489 $ 500 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 438 $ 463 $ 450 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 397 $ 493 $ 513 (19 )% (4 )% Hollister $ 442 $ 531 $ 568 (17 )% (7 )% RUEHL $ 217 $ 282 $ 363 (23 )% (22 )% Transactions per average retail store 44,975 53,152 55,142 (15 )% (4 )% Abercrombie Fitch 44,602 49,915 51,704 (11 )% (3 )% abercrombie 27,160 33,907 34,786 (20 )% (3 )% Hollister 54,143 65,564 68,740 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL 23,960 31,880 38,554 (25 )% (17 )% Average retail transaction value $ 67.11 $ 65.29 $ 64.07 3 % 2 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 86.95 $ 81.59 $ 76.30 7 % 7 % abercrombie $ 67.10 $ 65.76 $ 64.72 2 % 2 % Hollister $ 54.70 $ 54.15 $ 54.30 1 % 0 % RUEHL $ 85.11 $ 81.61 $ 84.24 4 % (3 )% Average units per retail transaction 2.41 2.42 2.35 0 % 3 % Abercrombie Fitch 2.37 2.37 2.26 0 % 5 % abercrombie 2.78 2.82 2.78 (1 )% 1 % Hollister 2.34 2.36 2.32 (1 )% 2 % RUEHL 2.34 2.48 2.57 (6 )% (4 )% Average unit retail sold $ 27.85 $ 26.98 $ 27.26 3 % (1 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 36.69 $ 34.43 $ 33.76 7 % 2 % abercrombie $ 24.14 $ 23.32 $ 23.28 4 % 0 % Hollister $ 23.38 $ 22.94 $ 23.41 2 % (2 )% RUEHL $ 36.37 $ 32.91 $ 32.78 11 % 0 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. ** A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Fiscal 2006 comparable store sales are compared to store sales for the comparable fifty three weeks ended February 4, 2006. *** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 reflect the activity of 14 and three stores, respectively. In Fiscal 2007, all three stores opened in January 2008. There were no Gilly Hicks stores open as of February 3, 2007. Operational data was deemed immaterial for inclusion in the table above. 26 Table of Contents CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK The fourth quarter retail environment proved to be the most challenging in the Companys recent history. Global economic turmoil resulted in a swift and steep decline in consumer spending and a mall landscape dominated by promotional activity. The Company reacted by managing its expenses, utilizing a season ending clearance event to clear through seasonal inventory and reducing capital expenditures by scaling back on domestic expansion, all of which allowed the Company to end the year with a strong cash position. Most importantly, the Company executed its strategy in a way that enabled it to protect its brands. The Company expects that the difficult selling environment will persist throughout 2009. Therefore, the Company will continue to focus on managing the business in a seasoned, disciplined and controlled manner. As always, the Companys first priority is long term shareholder value which requires a commitment to protecting brand equity. While the Company will take clearance markdowns as a natural rhythm of the business, the cornerstone of the Companys long term successful business model is to drive sales with high quality, trend right fashion and an exceptional in store environment. The Company will continue to rigorously review all operating expenses in order to achieve expense reductions and a more flexible cost base. These efforts will be ongoing in 2009 and beyond and will be responsive to overall sales trends. The Company continues to be encouraged with the results of its international expansion. The Abercrombie Fitch London flagship continues to perform well and there has been a strong initial reaction to the Hollister mall based stores opened in the U.K. Store growth for 2009 will be focused on international opportunities as the Company moves forward with plans to bring its brands to the rest of the world. In managing the business in 2009, the Company is taking a conservative view of market conditions. The Company will continue to focus on its long term objectives while seeking to maintain flexibility to respond to market conditions. 27 Table of Contents The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales by brand, by product and by store, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; International and flagship store performance; New store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2008 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2007 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended January 31, 2009 were $998.0 million, down 18.8% from net sales of $1.229 billion for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 25% decrease in comparable store sales and an 11.9% decrease in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores. 28 Table of Contents Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 23% with mens comparable store sales decreasing by a high double digit and womens decreasing by a low thirty; abercrombie decreased 30% with boys decreasing by a low twenty and girls decreasing by a low thirty; Hollister decreased 25% with dudes decreasing by a low teen and bettys decreasing by a low thirty; and RUEHL decreased 25% with mens decreasing by a mid teen and womens decreasing by a low thirty. Regionally, comparable store sales were down in all U.S. regions and Canada. Comparable store sales were stronger in the flagship stores, particularly in the United Kingdom. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included denim, fragrance and knit tops, while graphic tees and fleece were weakest. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, knit tops, fleece and graphic tees were the primary drivers in the negative comparable store sales result. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites, for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were $95.1 million, a decrease of 12.4% from Fiscal 2007 fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $108.6 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $14.3 million in Fiscal 2008 and $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.0% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 compared to 10.1% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $642.6 million compared to $825.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 64.4%, down 280 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 rate of 67.2%. The decrease in gross profit rate can be attributed to a higher IMU rate being more than offset by an increase in markdown rate versus last year. The higher markdown rate resulted from the need to clear through seasonal merchandise as a result of declining sales and the Company limited ability to reduce fourth quarter deliveries. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $422.5 million compared to $388.4 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 42.3%, up 10.7 percentage points from 31.6% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Although the Company introduced a number of initiatives to reduce store payroll hours in response to the declining sales, the increase in rate was primarily related to the limitation on leveraging fixed expenses due to the comparable store sales decline and additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge as the Company determined that the carrying amount of assets related to 11 Abercrombie Fitch, six abercrombie, three Hollister and nine RUEHL stores exceeded the fair value of those assets. The majority of the impairment charge was associated with the nine RUEHL stores. Long lived assets are reviewed at the store level periodically for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net assets through future cash flows is in question. Factors used in the evaluation include, but are not limited to, managements plans for future operations, recent operating results and projected cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased 2.1% to $101.0 million compared to $103.2 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The reduction in the marketing, general and administrative expense included savings in incentive compensation and benefits, travel and outside services. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.1%, up 1.7 percentage points from 8.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $5.5 million compared to $3.0 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other operating income included gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, as well as losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007. In Fiscal 2008, other operating income also included an other than temporary loss of $14.0 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, offset by a gain on the related put option of $12.3 million. Operating Income Operating income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased to $124.6 million from $337.1 million in the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate (operating income divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 12.5% compared to 27.4% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 fourth quarter interest income was $2.5 million, offset by interest expense of $1.1 million compared to interest income of $6.6 million, offset by interest expense of $0.2 million in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 45.7% compared to 36.9% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 tax rate reflects a charge of $9.9 million to tax expense as a result of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement, which pursuant to section 162(m) results in the exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits. Under the previous employment agreement, the Company recorded deferred tax assets based on the anticipated delivery of benefits to the CEO in the calendar year following the year of his retirement. As a result of the new employment agreement, the CEO receives the benefits during his employment; therefore the expected tax benefits are no longer available. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $68.4 million versus $216.8 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $0.78, including a non cash, after tax charge of $0.21 associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of $0.11 related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement, which pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code resulted in the 30 Table of Contents exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits related to the previous employee agreement, compared to $2.40 for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. FISCAL 2008 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2008 were $3.540 billion, a decrease of 5.6% from Fiscal 2007 net sales of $3.750 billion. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 13% decrease in comparable store sales, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores and a 5.7% increase in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. For Fiscal 2008, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 8%; abercrombie decreased 19%; Hollister decreased 17%; and RUEHL decreased 23%. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales in Fiscal 2008 were $271.0 million, an increase of 4.7% over Fiscal 2007 net merchandise sales of $258.9 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $44.0 million in Fiscal 2008 and $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.9% of total net sales in Fiscal 2008 compared to 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit For Fiscal 2008, gross profit decreased to $2.362 billion from $2.511 billion in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2008 was 66.7% versus 67.0% the previous year, a decrease of 30 basis points. The decrease in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by an improved initial mark up rate more than offset by a higher markdown rate. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008, the Company took higher markdowns to clear through seasonal merchandise. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2008 was $1.512 billion compared to $1.387 billion for Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2008, the stores and distribution expense rate was 42.7% compared to 37.0% for Fiscal 2007. The increase in rate resulted primarily from the Companys limited ability to leverage fixed expenses due to the negative 13% comparable store sales. Additionally, Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases and a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge associated with store related assets. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2008 increased 6.0% to $419.7 million compared to $395.8 million in Fiscal 2007. The increase in expense reflects investments in home office resources necessary for flagship and international expansion, partially offset by savings in incentive compensation and benefits and other home office expenses in the second half of Fiscal 2008. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.9% for Fiscal 2008, an increase of 1.3 percentage points compared to 10.6% for Fiscal 2007. 31 Table of Contents Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $8.9 million compared to $11.7 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily driven by losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2008 compared to gains on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007, as well as a decrease in income related to gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote. Operating Income Fiscal 2008 operating income was $439.4 million compared to $740.5 million for Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2008 was 12.4% compared to 19.7% for Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 interest income was $14.8 million, offset by interest expense of $3.4 million compared to interest income of $19.8 million, offset by interest expense of $1.0 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense in Fiscal 2008 was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 was 39.6% compared to 37.4% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The higher rate was primarily due to the non deductibility, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section 162(m), of certain compensation related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement during the year. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2008 was $272.3 million compared to $475.7 million for Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $3.05 in Fiscal 2008 versus $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. FISCAL 2007 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2006 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008 were $1.229 billion, up 7.9% versus net sales of $1.139 billion for the fourteen week period ended February 3, 2007. The net sales increase was attributed primarily to the net addition of 91 stores and a 46.8% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by an extra selling week in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 and the resulting impact of the calendar shift in Fiscal 2007 due to Fiscal 2006 being a 53 week fiscal year, as well as a 1% decrease in comparable store sales. Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch increased 1% with mens comparable store sales increasing by a low double digit and womens decreasing by a mid single digit; abercrombie decreased 3% with boys increasing by a mid single digit and girls decreasing by a mid single digit; Hollister decreased 2% with dudes increasing by a high single digit and bettys decreasing by a mid single digit; and RUEHL decreased 19% with mens decreasing by a high single digit and womens decreasing by the high twenties. Comparable regional store sales ranged from increases in the high teens to decreases in the mid single digits. Stores located in Canada and the Southwest and North Atlantic regions had the strongest comparable 32 Table of Contents store sales performance, while stores located in the South, Midwest and West regions had the weakest comparable store sales performance on a consolidated basis. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included graphic tees, fragrance and fleece, while pants, jeans and knits posted negative comparable sales. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, stronger performing categories included graphics tees, jeans and sweaters, while knits and fleece posted negative comparable sales. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites and catalogue, in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were $108.6 million, an increase of 45.2% versus the previous years fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $74.8 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007 and $9.8 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 10.1% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 compared to 7.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $825.6 million compared to $755.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 67.2%, up 80 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 rate of 66.4%. The increase in gross profit rate can be attributed to both a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $388.4 million compared to $349.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The stores and distribution expense rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 31.6%, up 90 basis points from 30.7% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase in rate was primarily related to the impact of minimum wage and management salary increases and higher store fixed cost rates. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $103.2 million compared to $101.6 million during the same period in Fiscal 2006. For the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 8.4% compared to 8.9% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease in the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was a result of lower travel, samples and outside service expense rates, partially offset by an increase in the home office payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter net other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $3.0 million compared to $4.6 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease was driven primarily by losses on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 as compared to gains on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. 33 Table of Contents Operating Income Operating income during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 increased to $337.1 million from $308.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.2%. The operating income rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 27.4% compared to 27.1% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Fourth quarter net interest income was $6.4 million in Fiscal 2007 compared to $4.7 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 when compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 36.9% as compared to 36.8% for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $216.8 million versus $198.2 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.4%. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $2.40, versus $2.14 for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period, an increase of 12.2%. FISCAL 2007 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2007 were $3.750 billion, an increase of 13.0% versus Fiscal 2006 net sales of $3.318 billion. The net sales increase was attributed to the combination of the net addition of 91 stores and a 50% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by a 1% comparable store sales decrease and a fifty three week year in Fiscal 2006 versus a fifty two week year in Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2007, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch and abercrombie comparable sales were flat; Hollister decreased 2%; and RUEHL decreased 9%. In addition, the womens, girls and bettys businesses continued to be more significant than the mens, boys and dudes. During Fiscal 2007, womens, girls and bettys represented at least 60% of the net sales for each of their corresponding brands. Direct to consumer merchandise net sales in Fiscal 2007 were $258.9 million, an increase of 49% versus Fiscal 2006 net merchandise sales of $174.1 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007 and $24.9 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007 compared to 6.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. 34 Table of Contents Gross Profit For Fiscal 2007, gross profit increased to $2.511 billion from $2.209 billion in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2007 was 67.0% versus 66.6% the previous year, an increase of 40 basis points. The increase in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2007 was $1.387 billion compared to $1.187 billion for Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the stores and distribution expense rate was 37.0% compared to 35.8% in the previous year. The increase in rate resulted primarily from store payroll, including minimum wage and store manager salary increases, higher store fixed cost rates and store packaging and supply expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2007 was $395.8 million compared to $373.8 million in Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 10.6%, a decrease of 70 basis points compared to Fiscal 2006s rate of 11.3%. The decrease in rate resulted from reductions in travel, samples and outside services expense rates, partially offset by the increase in payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $11.7 million compared to $10.0 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily related to gift cards for which the Company determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote, partially offset by decreases in gains related to foreign currency transactions. The comparable period in Fiscal 2006 included other operating income related to insurance reimbursements for a fire damaged store and a store damaged by Hurricane Katrina. Operating Income Fiscal 2007 operating income was $740.5 million compared to $658.1 million for Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.5%. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2007 was 19.7% versus 19.8% in the previous year. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Net interest income for Fiscal 2007 was $18.8 million compared to $13.9 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during Fiscal 2007 compared to Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007 was 37.4% compared to 37.2% for Fiscal 2006. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2007 was $475.7 million versus $422.2 million in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.7%. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $5.20 in Fiscal 2007 versus $4.59 in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 13.3%. 35 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had $522.1 million in cash and equivalents available as of January 31, 2009, as well as an additional $350 million available (less outstanding letters of credit) under its unsecured credit agreement, as described in Note 13, Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty two week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty three week year. A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007 included fifty two weeks and Fiscal 2006 included fifty three weeks. For purposes of this ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 are compared to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. Fiscal 2008 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. For Fiscal 2007, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 are compared to the fourteen and fifty three week periods ended February 3, 2007. Fiscal 2007 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 3, 2007. The Company had net sales of $3.540 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 31, 2009, down 5.6% from $3.750 billion for the fifty two weeks ended February 2, 2008. Operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $439.4 million, including a non cash charge of $30.6 million associated with the impairment of store related assets, which was down from $740.5 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income was $272.3 million in Fiscal 2008, down 42.8% from $475.7 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted share was $3.05 for Fiscal 2008, compared to $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 net income per diluted share included a non cash charge of approximately $0.21 per diluted share associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of approximately $0.11 per diluted share related to the execution of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement. The Company generated cash from operations of $490.8 million in Fiscal 2008 down from $817.5 million in Fiscal 2007. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction in net income, the increase in inventory on hand in Fiscal 2008, compared to a reduction of inventory on hand in Fiscal 2007, and a reduction of income taxes and accounts payable. During Fiscal 2008, the Company used cash from operations to finance its growth strategy, including the opening of two new Abercrombie Fitch stores, 66 new Hollister stores, 12 new abercrombie stores, six new RUEHL stores, and 11 new Gilly Hicks stores, as well as investments in home office resources and infrastructure to support the Companys international expansion. The Company also used cash in Fiscal 2008 to pay dividends of $0.70 per share, for a total of $60.8 million and to repurchase approximately 0.7 million shares of AF Common Stock with a value of approximately $50.0 million. In Fiscal 2008, the Company borrowed $100.0 million under the Companys unsecured credit agreement to supplement cash from operations. 24 Table of Contents The following data represents the Companys Consolidated Statements of Net Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2008 2007 2006* NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 33.3 33.0 33.4 GROSS PROFIT 66.7 67.0 66.6 Stores and Distribution Expense 42.7 37.0 35.8 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 11.9 10.6 11.3 Other Operating Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (0.3 ) OPERATING INCOME 12.4 19.7 19.8 Interest Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.5 ) (0.4 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 12.7 20.2 20.3 Provision for Income Taxes 5.0 7.6 7.5 NET INCOME 7.7 % 12.7 % 12.7 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. 25 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and operational data compares Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2007 to Fiscal 2006: Change 2008 2007 2006* 2008 2007 2007 2006 Net sales by brand (thousands) $ 3,540,276 $ 3,749,847 $ 3,318,158 (6 )% 13 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 1,531,480 $ 1,638,929 $ 1,515,123 (7 )% 8 % abercrombie $ 420,518 $ 471,045 $ 405,820 (11 )% 16 % Hollister $ 1,514,204 $ 1,589,452 $ 1,363,233 (5 )% 17 % RUEHL $ 56,218 $ 50,191 $ 33,982 12 % 48 % Gilly Hicks*** $ 17,856 $ 230 n/a n/a n/a Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales** (13 )% (1 )% 2 % Abercrombie Fitch (8 )% 0 % (4 )% abercrombie (19 )% 0 % 10 % Hollister (17 )% (2 )% 5 % RUEHL (23 )% (9 )% 14 % Net retail sales increase attributable to new and remodeled stores, and websites 7 % 14 % 17 % Net retail sales per average store (thousands) $ 3,018 $ 3,470 $ 3,533 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 3,878 $ 4,073 $ 3,945 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 1,823 $ 2,230 $ 2,251 (18 )% (1 )% Hollister $ 2,962 $ 3,550 $ 3,732 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL $ 2,039 $ 2,602 $ 3,248 (22 )% (20 )% Net retail sales per average gross square foot $ 425 $ 489 $ 500 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 438 $ 463 $ 450 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 397 $ 493 $ 513 (19 )% (4 )% Hollister $ 442 $ 531 $ 568 (17 )% (7 )% RUEHL $ 217 $ 282 $ 363 (23 )% (22 )% Transactions per average retail store 44,975 53,152 55,142 (15 )% (4 )% Abercrombie Fitch 44,602 49,915 51,704 (11 )% (3 )% abercrombie 27,160 33,907 34,786 (20 )% (3 )% Hollister 54,143 65,564 68,740 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL 23,960 31,880 38,554 (25 )% (17 )% Average retail transaction value $ 67.11 $ 65.29 $ 64.07 3 % 2 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 86.95 $ 81.59 $ 76.30 7 % 7 % abercrombie $ 67.10 $ 65.76 $ 64.72 2 % 2 % Hollister $ 54.70 $ 54.15 $ 54.30 1 % 0 % RUEHL $ 85.11 $ 81.61 $ 84.24 4 % (3 )% Average units per retail transaction 2.41 2.42 2.35 0 % 3 % Abercrombie Fitch 2.37 2.37 2.26 0 % 5 % abercrombie 2.78 2.82 2.78 (1 )% 1 % Hollister 2.34 2.36 2.32 (1 )% 2 % RUEHL 2.34 2.48 2.57 (6 )% (4 )% Average unit retail sold $ 27.85 $ 26.98 $ 27.26 3 % (1 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 36.69 $ 34.43 $ 33.76 7 % 2 % abercrombie $ 24.14 $ 23.32 $ 23.28 4 % 0 % Hollister $ 23.38 $ 22.94 $ 23.41 2 % (2 )% RUEHL $ 36.37 $ 32.91 $ 32.78 11 % 0 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. ** A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Fiscal 2006 comparable store sales are compared to store sales for the comparable fifty three weeks ended February 4, 2006. *** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 reflect the activity of 14 and three stores, respectively. In Fiscal 2007, all three stores opened in January 2008. There were no Gilly Hicks stores open as of February 3, 2007. Operational data was deemed immaterial for inclusion in the table above. 26 Table of Contents CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK The fourth quarter retail environment proved to be the most challenging in the Companys recent history. Global economic turmoil resulted in a swift and steep decline in consumer spending and a mall landscape dominated by promotional activity. The Company reacted by managing its expenses, utilizing a season ending clearance event to clear through seasonal inventory and reducing capital expenditures by scaling back on domestic expansion, all of which allowed the Company to end the year with a strong cash position. Most importantly, the Company executed its strategy in a way that enabled it to protect its brands. The Company expects that the difficult selling environment will persist throughout 2009. Therefore, the Company will continue to focus on managing the business in a seasoned, disciplined and controlled manner. As always, the Companys first priority is long term shareholder value which requires a commitment to protecting brand equity. While the Company will take clearance markdowns as a natural rhythm of the business, the cornerstone of the Companys long term successful business model is to drive sales with high quality, trend right fashion and an exceptional in store environment. The Company will continue to rigorously review all operating expenses in order to achieve expense reductions and a more flexible cost base. These efforts will be ongoing in 2009 and beyond and will be responsive to overall sales trends. The Company continues to be encouraged with the results of its international expansion. The Abercrombie Fitch London flagship continues to perform well and there has been a strong initial reaction to the Hollister mall based stores opened in the U.K. Store growth for 2009 will be focused on international opportunities as the Company moves forward with plans to bring its brands to the rest of the world. In managing the business in 2009, the Company is taking a conservative view of market conditions. The Company will continue to focus on its long term objectives while seeking to maintain flexibility to respond to market conditions. 27 Table of Contents The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales by brand, by product and by store, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; International and flagship store performance; New store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2008 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2007 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended January 31, 2009 were $998.0 million, down 18.8% from net sales of $1.229 billion for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 25% decrease in comparable store sales and an 11.9% decrease in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores. 28 Table of Contents Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 23% with mens comparable store sales decreasing by a high double digit and womens decreasing by a low thirty; abercrombie decreased 30% with boys decreasing by a low twenty and girls decreasing by a low thirty; Hollister decreased 25% with dudes decreasing by a low teen and bettys decreasing by a low thirty; and RUEHL decreased 25% with mens decreasing by a mid teen and womens decreasing by a low thirty. Regionally, comparable store sales were down in all U.S. regions and Canada. Comparable store sales were stronger in the flagship stores, particularly in the United Kingdom. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included denim, fragrance and knit tops, while graphic tees and fleece were weakest. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, knit tops, fleece and graphic tees were the primary drivers in the negative comparable store sales result. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites, for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were $95.1 million, a decrease of 12.4% from Fiscal 2007 fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $108.6 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $14.3 million in Fiscal 2008 and $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.0% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 compared to 10.1% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $642.6 million compared to $825.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 64.4%, down 280 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 rate of 67.2%. The decrease in gross profit rate can be attributed to a higher IMU rate being more than offset by an increase in markdown rate versus last year. The higher markdown rate resulted from the need to clear through seasonal merchandise as a result of declining sales and the Company limited ability to reduce fourth quarter deliveries. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $422.5 million compared to $388.4 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 42.3%, up 10.7 percentage points from 31.6% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Although the Company introduced a number of initiatives to reduce store payroll hours in response to the declining sales, the increase in rate was primarily related to the limitation on leveraging fixed expenses due to the comparable store sales decline and additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge as the Company determined that the carrying amount of assets related to 11 Abercrombie Fitch, six abercrombie, three Hollister and nine RUEHL stores exceeded the fair value of those assets. The majority of the impairment charge was associated with the nine RUEHL stores. Long lived assets are reviewed at the store level periodically for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net assets through future cash flows is in question. Factors used in the evaluation include, but are not limited to, managements plans for future operations, recent operating results and projected cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased 2.1% to $101.0 million compared to $103.2 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The reduction in the marketing, general and administrative expense included savings in incentive compensation and benefits, travel and outside services. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.1%, up 1.7 percentage points from 8.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $5.5 million compared to $3.0 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other operating income included gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, as well as losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007. In Fiscal 2008, other operating income also included an other than temporary loss of $14.0 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, offset by a gain on the related put option of $12.3 million. Operating Income Operating income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased to $124.6 million from $337.1 million in the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate (operating income divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 12.5% compared to 27.4% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 fourth quarter interest income was $2.5 million, offset by interest expense of $1.1 million compared to interest income of $6.6 million, offset by interest expense of $0.2 million in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 45.7% compared to 36.9% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 tax rate reflects a charge of $9.9 million to tax expense as a result of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement, which pursuant to section 162(m) results in the exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits. Under the previous employment agreement, the Company recorded deferred tax assets based on the anticipated delivery of benefits to the CEO in the calendar year following the year of his retirement. As a result of the new employment agreement, the CEO receives the benefits during his employment; therefore the expected tax benefits are no longer available. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $68.4 million versus $216.8 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $0.78, including a non cash, after tax charge of $0.21 associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of $0.11 related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement, which pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code resulted in the 30 Table of Contents exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits related to the previous employee agreement, compared to $2.40 for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. FISCAL 2008 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2008 were $3.540 billion, a decrease of 5.6% from Fiscal 2007 net sales of $3.750 billion. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 13% decrease in comparable store sales, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores and a 5.7% increase in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. For Fiscal 2008, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 8%; abercrombie decreased 19%; Hollister decreased 17%; and RUEHL decreased 23%. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales in Fiscal 2008 were $271.0 million, an increase of 4.7% over Fiscal 2007 net merchandise sales of $258.9 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $44.0 million in Fiscal 2008 and $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.9% of total net sales in Fiscal 2008 compared to 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit For Fiscal 2008, gross profit decreased to $2.362 billion from $2.511 billion in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2008 was 66.7% versus 67.0% the previous year, a decrease of 30 basis points. The decrease in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by an improved initial mark up rate more than offset by a higher markdown rate. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008, the Company took higher markdowns to clear through seasonal merchandise. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2008 was $1.512 billion compared to $1.387 billion for Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2008, the stores and distribution expense rate was 42.7% compared to 37.0% for Fiscal 2007. The increase in rate resulted primarily from the Companys limited ability to leverage fixed expenses due to the negative 13% comparable store sales. Additionally, Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases and a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge associated with store related assets. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2008 increased 6.0% to $419.7 million compared to $395.8 million in Fiscal 2007. The increase in expense reflects investments in home office resources necessary for flagship and international expansion, partially offset by savings in incentive compensation and benefits and other home office expenses in the second half of Fiscal 2008. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.9% for Fiscal 2008, an increase of 1.3 percentage points compared to 10.6% for Fiscal 2007. 31 Table of Contents Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $8.9 million compared to $11.7 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily driven by losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2008 compared to gains on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007, as well as a decrease in income related to gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote. Operating Income Fiscal 2008 operating income was $439.4 million compared to $740.5 million for Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2008 was 12.4% compared to 19.7% for Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 interest income was $14.8 million, offset by interest expense of $3.4 million compared to interest income of $19.8 million, offset by interest expense of $1.0 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense in Fiscal 2008 was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 was 39.6% compared to 37.4% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The higher rate was primarily due to the non deductibility, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section 162(m), of certain compensation related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement during the year. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2008 was $272.3 million compared to $475.7 million for Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $3.05 in Fiscal 2008 versus $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. FISCAL 2007 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2006 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008 were $1.229 billion, up 7.9% versus net sales of $1.139 billion for the fourteen week period ended February 3, 2007. The net sales increase was attributed primarily to the net addition of 91 stores and a 46.8% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by an extra selling week in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 and the resulting impact of the calendar shift in Fiscal 2007 due to Fiscal 2006 being a 53 week fiscal year, as well as a 1% decrease in comparable store sales. Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch increased 1% with mens comparable store sales increasing by a low double digit and womens decreasing by a mid single digit; abercrombie decreased 3% with boys increasing by a mid single digit and girls decreasing by a mid single digit; Hollister decreased 2% with dudes increasing by a high single digit and bettys decreasing by a mid single digit; and RUEHL decreased 19% with mens decreasing by a high single digit and womens decreasing by the high twenties. Comparable regional store sales ranged from increases in the high teens to decreases in the mid single digits. Stores located in Canada and the Southwest and North Atlantic regions had the strongest comparable 32 Table of Contents store sales performance, while stores located in the South, Midwest and West regions had the weakest comparable store sales performance on a consolidated basis. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included graphic tees, fragrance and fleece, while pants, jeans and knits posted negative comparable sales. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, stronger performing categories included graphics tees, jeans and sweaters, while knits and fleece posted negative comparable sales. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites and catalogue, in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were $108.6 million, an increase of 45.2% versus the previous years fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $74.8 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007 and $9.8 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 10.1% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 compared to 7.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $825.6 million compared to $755.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 67.2%, up 80 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 rate of 66.4%. The increase in gross profit rate can be attributed to both a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $388.4 million compared to $349.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The stores and distribution expense rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 31.6%, up 90 basis points from 30.7% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase in rate was primarily related to the impact of minimum wage and management salary increases and higher store fixed cost rates. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $103.2 million compared to $101.6 million during the same period in Fiscal 2006. For the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 8.4% compared to 8.9% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease in the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was a result of lower travel, samples and outside service expense rates, partially offset by an increase in the home office payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter net other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $3.0 million compared to $4.6 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease was driven primarily by losses on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 as compared to gains on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. 33 Table of Contents Operating Income Operating income during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 increased to $337.1 million from $308.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.2%. The operating income rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 27.4% compared to 27.1% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Fourth quarter net interest income was $6.4 million in Fiscal 2007 compared to $4.7 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 when compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 36.9% as compared to 36.8% for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $216.8 million versus $198.2 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.4%. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $2.40, versus $2.14 for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period, an increase of 12.2%. FISCAL 2007 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2007 were $3.750 billion, an increase of 13.0% versus Fiscal 2006 net sales of $3.318 billion. The net sales increase was attributed to the combination of the net addition of 91 stores and a 50% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by a 1% comparable store sales decrease and a fifty three week year in Fiscal 2006 versus a fifty two week year in Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2007, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch and abercrombie comparable sales were flat; Hollister decreased 2%; and RUEHL decreased 9%. In addition, the womens, girls and bettys businesses continued to be more significant than the mens, boys and dudes. During Fiscal 2007, womens, girls and bettys represented at least 60% of the net sales for each of their corresponding brands. Direct to consumer merchandise net sales in Fiscal 2007 were $258.9 million, an increase of 49% versus Fiscal 2006 net merchandise sales of $174.1 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007 and $24.9 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007 compared to 6.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. 34 Table of Contents Gross Profit For Fiscal 2007, gross profit increased to $2.511 billion from $2.209 billion in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2007 was 67.0% versus 66.6% the previous year, an increase of 40 basis points. The increase in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2007 was $1.387 billion compared to $1.187 billion for Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the stores and distribution expense rate was 37.0% compared to 35.8% in the previous year. The increase in rate resulted primarily from store payroll, including minimum wage and store manager salary increases, higher store fixed cost rates and store packaging and supply expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2007 was $395.8 million compared to $373.8 million in Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 10.6%, a decrease of 70 basis points compared to Fiscal 2006s rate of 11.3%. The decrease in rate resulted from reductions in travel, samples and outside services expense rates, partially offset by the increase in payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $11.7 million compared to $10.0 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily related to gift cards for which the Company determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote, partially offset by decreases in gains related to foreign currency transactions. The comparable period in Fiscal 2006 included other operating income related to insurance reimbursements for a fire damaged store and a store damaged by Hurricane Katrina. Operating Income Fiscal 2007 operating income was $740.5 million compared to $658.1 million for Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.5%. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2007 was 19.7% versus 19.8% in the previous year. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Net interest income for Fiscal 2007 was $18.8 million compared to $13.9 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during Fiscal 2007 compared to Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007 was 37.4% compared to 37.2% for Fiscal 2006. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2007 was $475.7 million versus $422.2 million in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.7%. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $5.20 in Fiscal 2007 versus $4.59 in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 13.3%. 35 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had $522.1 million in cash and equivalents available as of January 31, 2009, as well as an additional $350 million available (less outstanding letters of credit) under its unsecured credit agreement, as described in Note 13, Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 are compared to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. Fiscal 2008 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008. For Fiscal 2007, the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 are compared to the fourteen and fifty three week periods ended February 3, 2007. Fiscal 2007 comparable store sales compare the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 2, 2008 to the thirteen and fifty two week periods ended February 3, 2007. The Company had net sales of $3.540 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 31, 2009, down 5.6% from $3.750 billion for the fifty two weeks ended February 2, 2008. Operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $439.4 million, including a non cash charge of $30.6 million associated with the impairment of store related assets, which was down from $740.5 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income was $272.3 million in Fiscal 2008, down 42.8% from $475.7 million in Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted share was $3.05 for Fiscal 2008, compared to $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 net income per diluted share included a non cash charge of approximately $0.21 per diluted share associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of approximately $0.11 per diluted share related to the execution of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement. The Company generated cash from operations of $490.8 million in Fiscal 2008 down from $817.5 million in Fiscal 2007. The decrease resulted primarily from a reduction in net income, the increase in inventory on hand in Fiscal 2008, compared to a reduction of inventory on hand in Fiscal 2007, and a reduction of income taxes and accounts payable. During Fiscal 2008, the Company used cash from operations to finance its growth strategy, including the opening of two new Abercrombie Fitch stores, 66 new Hollister stores, 12 new abercrombie stores, six new RUEHL stores, and 11 new Gilly Hicks stores, as well as investments in home office resources and infrastructure to support the Companys international expansion. The Company also used cash in Fiscal 2008 to pay dividends of $0.70 per share, for a total of $60.8 million and to repurchase approximately 0.7 million shares of AF Common Stock with a value of approximately $50.0 million. In Fiscal 2008, the Company borrowed $100.0 million under the Companys unsecured credit agreement to supplement cash from operations. 24 Table of Contents The following data represents the Companys Consolidated Statements of Net Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2008 2007 2006* NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 33.3 33.0 33.4 GROSS PROFIT 66.7 67.0 66.6 Stores and Distribution Expense 42.7 37.0 35.8 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 11.9 10.6 11.3 Other Operating Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.3 ) (0.3 ) OPERATING INCOME 12.4 19.7 19.8 Interest Income, Net (0.3 ) (0.5 ) (0.4 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 12.7 20.2 20.3 Provision for Income Taxes 5.0 7.6 7.5 NET INCOME 7.7 % 12.7 % 12.7 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. 25 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and operational data compares Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2007 to Fiscal 2006: Change 2008 2007 2006* 2008 2007 2007 2006 Net sales by brand (thousands) $ 3,540,276 $ 3,749,847 $ 3,318,158 (6 )% 13 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 1,531,480 $ 1,638,929 $ 1,515,123 (7 )% 8 % abercrombie $ 420,518 $ 471,045 $ 405,820 (11 )% 16 % Hollister $ 1,514,204 $ 1,589,452 $ 1,363,233 (5 )% 17 % RUEHL $ 56,218 $ 50,191 $ 33,982 12 % 48 % Gilly Hicks*** $ 17,856 $ 230 n/a n/a n/a Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales** (13 )% (1 )% 2 % Abercrombie Fitch (8 )% 0 % (4 )% abercrombie (19 )% 0 % 10 % Hollister (17 )% (2 )% 5 % RUEHL (23 )% (9 )% 14 % Net retail sales increase attributable to new and remodeled stores, and websites 7 % 14 % 17 % Net retail sales per average store (thousands) $ 3,018 $ 3,470 $ 3,533 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 3,878 $ 4,073 $ 3,945 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 1,823 $ 2,230 $ 2,251 (18 )% (1 )% Hollister $ 2,962 $ 3,550 $ 3,732 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL $ 2,039 $ 2,602 $ 3,248 (22 )% (20 )% Net retail sales per average gross square foot $ 425 $ 489 $ 500 (13 )% (2 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 438 $ 463 $ 450 (5 )% 3 % abercrombie $ 397 $ 493 $ 513 (19 )% (4 )% Hollister $ 442 $ 531 $ 568 (17 )% (7 )% RUEHL $ 217 $ 282 $ 363 (23 )% (22 )% Transactions per average retail store 44,975 53,152 55,142 (15 )% (4 )% Abercrombie Fitch 44,602 49,915 51,704 (11 )% (3 )% abercrombie 27,160 33,907 34,786 (20 )% (3 )% Hollister 54,143 65,564 68,740 (17 )% (5 )% RUEHL 23,960 31,880 38,554 (25 )% (17 )% Average retail transaction value $ 67.11 $ 65.29 $ 64.07 3 % 2 % Abercrombie Fitch $ 86.95 $ 81.59 $ 76.30 7 % 7 % abercrombie $ 67.10 $ 65.76 $ 64.72 2 % 2 % Hollister $ 54.70 $ 54.15 $ 54.30 1 % 0 % RUEHL $ 85.11 $ 81.61 $ 84.24 4 % (3 )% Average units per retail transaction 2.41 2.42 2.35 0 % 3 % Abercrombie Fitch 2.37 2.37 2.26 0 % 5 % abercrombie 2.78 2.82 2.78 (1 )% 1 % Hollister 2.34 2.36 2.32 (1 )% 2 % RUEHL 2.34 2.48 2.57 (6 )% (4 )% Average unit retail sold $ 27.85 $ 26.98 $ 27.26 3 % (1 )% Abercrombie Fitch $ 36.69 $ 34.43 $ 33.76 7 % 2 % abercrombie $ 24.14 $ 23.32 $ 23.28 4 % 0 % Hollister $ 23.38 $ 22.94 $ 23.41 2 % (2 )% RUEHL $ 36.37 $ 32.91 $ 32.78 11 % 0 % * Fiscal 2006 was a fifty three week year. ** A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Fiscal 2006 comparable store sales are compared to store sales for the comparable fifty three weeks ended February 4, 2006. *** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 reflect the activity of 14 and three stores, respectively. In Fiscal 2007, all three stores opened in January 2008. There were no Gilly Hicks stores open as of February 3, 2007. Operational data was deemed immaterial for inclusion in the table above. 26 Table of Contents CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK The fourth quarter retail environment proved to be the most challenging in the Companys recent history. Global economic turmoil resulted in a swift and steep decline in consumer spending and a mall landscape dominated by promotional activity. The Company reacted by managing its expenses, utilizing a season ending clearance event to clear through seasonal inventory and reducing capital expenditures by scaling back on domestic expansion, all of which allowed the Company to end the year with a strong cash position. Most importantly, the Company executed its strategy in a way that enabled it to protect its brands. The Company expects that the difficult selling environment will persist throughout 2009. Therefore, the Company will continue to focus on managing the business in a seasoned, disciplined and controlled manner. As always, the Companys first priority is long term shareholder value which requires a commitment to protecting brand equity. While the Company will take clearance markdowns as a natural rhythm of the business, the cornerstone of the Companys long term successful business model is to drive sales with high quality, trend right fashion and an exceptional in store environment. The Company will continue to rigorously review all operating expenses in order to achieve expense reductions and a more flexible cost base. These efforts will be ongoing in 2009 and beyond and will be responsive to overall sales trends. The Company continues to be encouraged with the results of its international expansion. The Abercrombie Fitch London flagship continues to perform well and there has been a strong initial reaction to the Hollister mall based stores opened in the U.K. Store growth for 2009 will be focused on international opportunities as the Company moves forward with plans to bring its brands to the rest of the world. In managing the business in 2009, the Company is taking a conservative view of market conditions. The Company will continue to focus on its long term objectives while seeking to maintain flexibility to respond to market conditions. 27 Table of Contents The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales by brand, by product and by store, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; International and flagship store performance; New store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2008 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2007 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended January 31, 2009 were $998.0 million, down 18.8% from net sales of $1.229 billion for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 25% decrease in comparable store sales and an 11.9% decrease in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores. 28 Table of Contents Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 23% with mens comparable store sales decreasing by a high double digit and womens decreasing by a low thirty; abercrombie decreased 30% with boys decreasing by a low twenty and girls decreasing by a low thirty; Hollister decreased 25% with dudes decreasing by a low teen and bettys decreasing by a low thirty; and RUEHL decreased 25% with mens decreasing by a mid teen and womens decreasing by a low thirty. Regionally, comparable store sales were down in all U.S. regions and Canada. Comparable store sales were stronger in the flagship stores, particularly in the United Kingdom. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included denim, fragrance and knit tops, while graphic tees and fleece were weakest. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, knit tops, fleece and graphic tees were the primary drivers in the negative comparable store sales result. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites, for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 were $95.1 million, a decrease of 12.4% from Fiscal 2007 fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $108.6 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $14.3 million in Fiscal 2008 and $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.0% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 compared to 10.1% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $642.6 million compared to $825.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 64.4%, down 280 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 rate of 67.2%. The decrease in gross profit rate can be attributed to a higher IMU rate being more than offset by an increase in markdown rate versus last year. The higher markdown rate resulted from the need to clear through seasonal merchandise as a result of declining sales and the Company limited ability to reduce fourth quarter deliveries. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $422.5 million compared to $388.4 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 42.3%, up 10.7 percentage points from 31.6% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Although the Company introduced a number of initiatives to reduce store payroll hours in response to the declining sales, the increase in rate was primarily related to the limitation on leveraging fixed expenses due to the comparable store sales decline and additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge as the Company determined that the carrying amount of assets related to 11 Abercrombie Fitch, six abercrombie, three Hollister and nine RUEHL stores exceeded the fair value of those assets. The majority of the impairment charge was associated with the nine RUEHL stores. Long lived assets are reviewed at the store level periodically for impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net assets through future cash flows is in question. Factors used in the evaluation include, but are not limited to, managements plans for future operations, recent operating results and projected cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased 2.1% to $101.0 million compared to $103.2 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The reduction in the marketing, general and administrative expense included savings in incentive compensation and benefits, travel and outside services. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.1%, up 1.7 percentage points from 8.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $5.5 million compared to $3.0 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Other operating income included gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote for Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2007, as well as losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007. In Fiscal 2008, other operating income also included an other than temporary loss of $14.0 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, offset by a gain on the related put option of $12.3 million. Operating Income Operating income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 decreased to $124.6 million from $337.1 million in the comparable period in Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate (operating income divided by net sales) for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 12.5% compared to 27.4% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 fourth quarter interest income was $2.5 million, offset by interest expense of $1.1 million compared to interest income of $6.6 million, offset by interest expense of $0.2 million in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was 45.7% compared to 36.9% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 tax rate reflects a charge of $9.9 million to tax expense as a result of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officers (CEO) new employment agreement, which pursuant to section 162(m) results in the exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits. Under the previous employment agreement, the Company recorded deferred tax assets based on the anticipated delivery of benefits to the CEO in the calendar year following the year of his retirement. As a result of the new employment agreement, the CEO receives the benefits during his employment; therefore the expected tax benefits are no longer available. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $68.4 million versus $216.8 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008 was $0.78, including a non cash, after tax charge of $0.21 associated with the impairment of store related assets and a charge to tax expense of $0.11 related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement, which pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code resulted in the 30 Table of Contents exclusion of previously recognized tax benefits related to the previous employee agreement, compared to $2.40 for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. FISCAL 2008 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2008 were $3.540 billion, a decrease of 5.6% from Fiscal 2007 net sales of $3.750 billion. The net sales decrease was attributed primarily to the 13% decrease in comparable store sales, partially offset by a net addition of 90 stores and a 5.7% increase in direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. For Fiscal 2008, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch decreased 8%; abercrombie decreased 19%; Hollister decreased 17%; and RUEHL decreased 23%. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales in Fiscal 2008 were $271.0 million, an increase of 4.7% over Fiscal 2007 net merchandise sales of $258.9 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $44.0 million in Fiscal 2008 and $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.9% of total net sales in Fiscal 2008 compared to 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007. Gross Profit For Fiscal 2008, gross profit decreased to $2.362 billion from $2.511 billion in Fiscal 2007. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2008 was 66.7% versus 67.0% the previous year, a decrease of 30 basis points. The decrease in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by an improved initial mark up rate more than offset by a higher markdown rate. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2008, the Company took higher markdowns to clear through seasonal merchandise. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2008 was $1.512 billion compared to $1.387 billion for Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2008, the stores and distribution expense rate was 42.7% compared to 37.0% for Fiscal 2007. The increase in rate resulted primarily from the Companys limited ability to leverage fixed expenses due to the negative 13% comparable store sales. Additionally, Fiscal 2008s stores and distribution expense also included additional direct expenses related to flagship pre opening rent expenses, as well as minimum wage and manager salary increases and a $30.6 million non cash impairment charge associated with store related assets. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2008 increased 6.0% to $419.7 million compared to $395.8 million in Fiscal 2007. The increase in expense reflects investments in home office resources necessary for flagship and international expansion, partially offset by savings in incentive compensation and benefits and other home office expenses in the second half of Fiscal 2008. The marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.9% for Fiscal 2008, an increase of 1.3 percentage points compared to 10.6% for Fiscal 2007. 31 Table of Contents Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2008 was $8.9 million compared to $11.7 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily driven by losses on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2008 compared to gains on foreign currency transactions for Fiscal 2007, as well as a decrease in income related to gift cards for which the Company has determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote. Operating Income Fiscal 2008 operating income was $439.4 million compared to $740.5 million for Fiscal 2007. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2008 was 12.4% compared to 19.7% for Fiscal 2007. Interest Income, Net and Income Tax Expense Fiscal 2008 interest income was $14.8 million, offset by interest expense of $3.4 million compared to interest income of $19.8 million, offset by interest expense of $1.0 million for Fiscal 2007. The decrease in interest income was primarily due to a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense in Fiscal 2008 was due to borrowings made under the unsecured credit agreement in Fiscal 2008. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2008 was 39.6% compared to 37.4% for the Fiscal 2007 comparable period. The higher rate was primarily due to the non deductibility, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section 162(m), of certain compensation related to the execution of the CEOs new employment agreement during the year. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2008 was $272.3 million compared to $475.7 million for Fiscal 2007. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $3.05 in Fiscal 2008 versus $5.20 in Fiscal 2007. FISCAL 2007 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2006 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS Net Sales Fourth quarter net sales for the thirteen week period ended February 2, 2008 were $1.229 billion, up 7.9% versus net sales of $1.139 billion for the fourteen week period ended February 3, 2007. The net sales increase was attributed primarily to the net addition of 91 stores and a 46.8% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by an extra selling week in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 and the resulting impact of the calendar shift in Fiscal 2007 due to Fiscal 2006 being a 53 week fiscal year, as well as a 1% decrease in comparable store sales. Comparable store sales by brand for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch increased 1% with mens comparable store sales increasing by a low double digit and womens decreasing by a mid single digit; abercrombie decreased 3% with boys increasing by a mid single digit and girls decreasing by a mid single digit; Hollister decreased 2% with dudes increasing by a high single digit and bettys decreasing by a mid single digit; and RUEHL decreased 19% with mens decreasing by a high single digit and womens decreasing by the high twenties. Comparable regional store sales ranged from increases in the high teens to decreases in the mid single digits. Stores located in Canada and the Southwest and North Atlantic regions had the strongest comparable 32 Table of Contents store sales performance, while stores located in the South, Midwest and West regions had the weakest comparable store sales performance on a consolidated basis. From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included graphic tees, fragrance and fleece, while pants, jeans and knits posted negative comparable sales. In the feminine businesses, across all brands, stronger performing categories included graphics tees, jeans and sweaters, while knits and fleece posted negative comparable sales. Direct to consumer net merchandise sales, which are sold through the Companys websites and catalogue, in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 were $108.6 million, an increase of 45.2% versus the previous years fourth quarter net merchandise sales of $74.8 million. Shipping and handling revenue for the corresponding periods was $15.6 million in Fiscal 2007 and $9.8 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 10.1% of total net sales in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 compared to 7.4% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. Gross Profit Gross profit during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $825.6 million compared to $755.6 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 67.2%, up 80 basis points from the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006 rate of 66.4%. The increase in gross profit rate can be attributed to both a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $388.4 million compared to $349.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The stores and distribution expense rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 31.6%, up 90 basis points from 30.7% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The increase in rate was primarily related to the impact of minimum wage and management salary increases and higher store fixed cost rates. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $103.2 million compared to $101.6 million during the same period in Fiscal 2006. For the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 8.4% compared to 8.9% in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease in the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was a result of lower travel, samples and outside service expense rates, partially offset by an increase in the home office payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Fourth quarter net other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $3.0 million compared to $4.6 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The decrease was driven primarily by losses on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 as compared to gains on foreign currency transactions in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. 33 Table of Contents Operating Income Operating income during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 increased to $337.1 million from $308.8 million for the comparable period in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.2%. The operating income rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 27.4% compared to 27.1% for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Fourth quarter net interest income was $6.4 million in Fiscal 2007 compared to $4.7 million during the comparable period in Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 when compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was 36.9% as compared to 36.8% for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $216.8 million versus $198.2 million for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2006, an increase of 9.4%. Net income per diluted weighted average share outstanding for the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007 was $2.40, versus $2.14 for the Fiscal 2006 comparable period, an increase of 12.2%. FISCAL 2007 RESULTS Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2007 were $3.750 billion, an increase of 13.0% versus Fiscal 2006 net sales of $3.318 billion. The net sales increase was attributed to the combination of the net addition of 91 stores and a 50% increase in direct to consumer business (including shipping and handling revenue), partially offset by a 1% comparable store sales decrease and a fifty three week year in Fiscal 2006 versus a fifty two week year in Fiscal 2007. For Fiscal 2007, comparable store sales by brand were as follows: Abercrombie Fitch and abercrombie comparable sales were flat; Hollister decreased 2%; and RUEHL decreased 9%. In addition, the womens, girls and bettys businesses continued to be more significant than the mens, boys and dudes. During Fiscal 2007, womens, girls and bettys represented at least 60% of the net sales for each of their corresponding brands. Direct to consumer merchandise net sales in Fiscal 2007 were $258.9 million, an increase of 49% versus Fiscal 2006 net merchandise sales of $174.1 million. Shipping and handling revenue was $39.1 million in Fiscal 2007 and $24.9 million in Fiscal 2006. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 8.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2007 compared to 6.0% of total net sales in Fiscal 2006. The increase was driven by store expansion, both domestically and internationally, improved in stock inventory availability, an improved targeted e mail marketing strategy and improved website functionality. 34 Table of Contents Gross Profit For Fiscal 2007, gross profit increased to $2.511 billion from $2.209 billion in Fiscal 2006. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2007 was 67.0% versus 66.6% the previous year, an increase of 40 basis points. The increase in the gross profit rate was driven primarily by a higher IMU rate and a lower shrink rate in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2007, partially offset by a higher markdown rate. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2007 was $1.387 billion compared to $1.187 billion for Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the stores and distribution expense rate was 37.0% compared to 35.8% in the previous year. The increase in rate resulted primarily from store payroll, including minimum wage and store manager salary increases, higher store fixed cost rates and store packaging and supply expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2007 was $395.8 million compared to $373.8 million in Fiscal 2006. For Fiscal 2007, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 10.6%, a decrease of 70 basis points compared to Fiscal 2006s rate of 11.3%. The decrease in rate resulted from reductions in travel, samples and outside services expense rates, partially offset by the increase in payroll expense rate. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income for Fiscal 2007 was $11.7 million compared to $10.0 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily related to gift cards for which the Company determined the likelihood of redemption to be remote, partially offset by decreases in gains related to foreign currency transactions. The comparable period in Fiscal 2006 included other operating income related to insurance reimbursements for a fire damaged store and a store damaged by Hurricane Katrina. Operating Income Fiscal 2007 operating income was $740.5 million compared to $658.1 million for Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.5%. The operating income rate for Fiscal 2007 was 19.7% versus 19.8% in the previous year. Interest Income, Net and Income Taxes Net interest income for Fiscal 2007 was $18.8 million compared to $13.9 million for Fiscal 2006. The increase in net interest income was due to higher interest rates and higher available investment balances during Fiscal 2007 compared to Fiscal 2006. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2007 was 37.4% compared to 37.2% for Fiscal 2006. Net Income and Net Income per Share Net income for Fiscal 2007 was $475.7 million versus $422.2 million in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 12.7%. Net income per diluted weighted average share was $5.20 in Fiscal 2007 versus $4.59 in Fiscal 2006, an increase of 13.3%. 35 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had $522.1 million in cash and equivalents available as of January 31, 2009, as well as an additional $350 million available (less outstanding letters of credit) under its unsecured credit agreement, as described in Note 13, Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
