ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information regarding net sales and other financial and operational data by segment and by brand. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS. The Company determines its segments on the same basis that it uses to evaluate performance. In connection with international expansion, the way the Company allocates resources and assesses performance has changed. All of the Companys segments sell a similar group of products casual sportswear apparel, personal care products and accessories for men, women and kids and bras, underwear and sleepwear for women. The Company has three reportable segments, U.S. Stores, International Stores and Direct to Consumer. Refer to Note 2, Segment Reporting, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion of the Companys reportable segments. IN STORE EXPERIENCE AND STORE OPERATIONS. The Company views the customers in store experience as the primary means for communicating the spirit of each brand. The Company emphasizes the senses of sight, sound, smell, touch and energy by utilizing the visual presentation of merchandise, in store marketing, music, fragrances, rich fabrics and its sales associates to reinforce the aspirational lifestyles represented by the brands. The Companys in store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a shopping experience that reflects the Abercrombie & Fitch, abercrombie kids, Hollister or Gilly Hicks lifestyle. The Companys sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores. In addition to serving customers, sales associates and managers reflect the casual, energetic and aspirational attitude of the brands. 2 Table of Contents Merchandise is similarly displayed, regardless of location, to ensure a consistent in store experience. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the Company wide merchandising strategy. In addition, standardization of each brands store design and merchandise presentation enables the Company to open new stores efficiently. At the end of Fiscal 2011, the Company operated 1,045 stores. The following table details the number of retail stores operated by the Company at January 28, 2012: Fiscal 2011 Abercrombie &Fitch abercrombiekids Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. 280 154 494 18 946 International 14 5 77 3 99 Total 294 159 571 21 1,045 DIRECT TO CONSUMER BUSINESS. The Company operates websites for each brand, both domestically and internationally. The websites reinforce each particular brands lifestyle, and are designed to complement the in store experience. Aggregate total net sales through direct to consumer operations, including shipping and handling revenue, were $552.6 million for Fiscal 2011, representing 13.3% of total net sales. The Company believes its direct to consumer operations have broadened its market and brand recognition worldwide. MARKETING AND ADVERTISING. The Company considers the in store experience to be its primary marketing vehicle. The Companys marketing strategy emphasizes the senses to reinforce the aspirational lifestyle represented by each brand. The Companys flagship stores represent the pinnacle of the Companys in store branding efforts. The Company also engages its customers through the internet, social media and mobile commerce in ways that reinforce the aspirational lifestyle of the brands. Flagship stores and social media both attract a substantial number of international consumers and have significantly contributed to the worldwide status of the Companys iconic brands. MERCHANDISE SUPPLIERS. During Fiscal 2011, the Company sourced merchandise through approximately 170 vendors located throughout the world; primarily in Asia and Central and South America. The Company did not source more than 10% of its merchandise from any single factory or supplier during Fiscal 2011. The Company pursues a global sourcing strategy that includes relationships with vendors in 16 countries as well as the United States. The Companys foreign sourcing of merchandise is negotiated and settled in U.S. dollars. All product sources, including independent manufacturers and suppliers, must achieve and maintain the Companys high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Companys identity. The Company has established supplier product quality standards to ensure the high quality of fabrics and other materials used in the Companys products. The Company utilizes both home office and field employees to help monitor compliance with the Companys product quality standards. Before the Company begins production with any factory, the factory must first go through a rigorous quality assurance inspection to ensure it meets Company standards. This includes factories that are subcontractors to the factories and vendors with whom the Company works. All business partners are 3 Table of Contents contractually required to adhere to our vendor Code of Conduct, and all new factories go through an initial social audit, which includes a factory walk through to appraise the physical working conditions and health and safety practices. Social audits on the factories are also performed once a year after the initial audit. The Company strives to partner with suppliers who respect local laws and share our dedication to utilize best practices in human rights, labor rights and workplace safety. DISTRIBUTION AND MERCHANDISE INVENTORY. The Companys merchandise is shipped to the Companys distribution centers (DCs) where it is received and inspected before being shipped to stores or direct to consumer customers. The Company uses its two DCs in New Albany, Ohio to support its North American stores, and North American and Asian direct to consumer customers. The Company is in the process of consolidating the operations of its two DCs in New Albany, Ohio into one, with an expected completion date by the end of Fiscal 2012. The Company uses a third party DC in the Netherlands for the distribution of merchandise to stores and direct to consumer customers located in Europe, and a third party DC in Hong Kong for the distribution of merchandise to stores located in Asia. The Company utilizes primarily one contract carrier to ship merchandise and related materials to its North American stores and direct to consumer customers, and a separate contract carrier for its European and Asian stores and direct to consumer customers. The Company strives to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory in its retail stores and DCs to offer customers a full selection of current merchandise. The Company attempts to balance in stock levels and inventory turnover, and to take markdowns when required to keep merchandise fresh and current with fashion trends. INFORMATION SYSTEMS. The Companys management information systems consist of a full range of retail, merchandising and financial systems. The systems include applications related to point of sale, direct to consumer, inventory management, supply chain, planning, sourcing, merchandising and financial reporting. The Company continues to invest in technology to upgrade core systems to make the Company scalable, efficient, and more accurate, including support of its international expansion. SEASONAL BUSINESS. The retail apparel market has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (Spring); and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (Fall). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to the Back to School (August) and Holiday (November and December) selling periods, particularly in the U.S. TRADEMARKS. The Abercrombie & Fitch&reg;, abercrombie&reg;, Hollister&reg;, Gilly Hicks&reg;, Moose and Seagull trademarks are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, these trademarks are either registered, or the Company has applications for registration pending, with the registries of many of the foreign countries in which the manufacturers of the Companys products are located. The Company has also registered, or has applied to register, certain other trademarks in the U.S. and around the world. The Company believes its products are identified by its trademarks and, therefore, its trademarks are of significant value. Each 4 Table of Contents registered trademark has a duration of ten to 20 years, depending on the date it was registered, and the country in which it is registered, and is subject to an indefinite number of renewals for a like period upon continued use and appropriate application. The Company intends to continue using its core trademarks and to renew each of its registered trademarks that remain in use. OTHER INFORMATION. Additional information about the Companys business, including its revenues and profits for the last three fiscal years and gross square footage of stores, is set forth under ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. COMPETITION. The sale of apparel, accessories and personal care products through stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. As the Company continues expanding internationally, it also faces competition in local markets from established chains, as well as local specialty stores. Brand recognition, fashion, price, service, store location, selection and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store and direct to consumer sales. The competitive challenges facing the Company include anticipating and quickly responding to changing fashion trends; and maintaining the aspirational positioning of its brands. Furthermore, the Company faces additional competitive challenges as many retailers continue promotional activities regardless of economic conditions, particularly in the U.S. In response to these conditions, the Company has engaged in promotional activity in the U.S. while continuing to focus on preserving the value of its brands. ASSOCIATE RELATIONS. As of March 16, 2012, the Company employed approximately 90,000 associates. Approximately 80,000 of the Companys associates were part time associates. On average, the Company employed approximately 27,000 full time equivalents during Fiscal 2011 which included approximately 17,000 full time equivalents comprised of part time associates, including temporary associates hired during peak periods, such as the Back to School and Holiday seasons. The Company believes it maintains a good relationship with its associates. However, in the normal course of business, the Company is party to lawsuits involving former and current associates. Please see the discussion in ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. Compliance with domestic and international regulations related to environmental matters has not had, nor is it expected to have, any material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or the Companys competitive position based on information and circumstances known to us at this time. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS. On June 16, 2009, A&Fs Board of Directors approved the closure of the Companys 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. 5 Table of Contents Accordingly, the results of operations of RUEHL are reflected in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for all periods presented. Results from discontinued operations were immaterial for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS. We caution that any forward looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or made by us, our management or our spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, expect, anticipate, intend and similar expressions may identify forward looking statements. Except as may be required by applicable law, we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward looking statements. The following factors could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward looking statements: changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; if we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, and manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand, our sales levels and profitability may decline; fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; equity based compensation awarded under the employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our cash flows, financial position or results of operations and could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding Common Stock; our growth strategy relies significantly on international expansion, which adds complexity to our operations and may strain our resources and adversely impact current store performance; our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations; our direct to consumer sales are subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales; we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs related to store closures; our development of a new brand concept such as Gilly Hicks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; comparable store sales may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our Common Stock; our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; 7 Table of Contents our stock price may be volatile and investors may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid to acquire the shares; our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls in which most of our stores are located; our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in Back to School and Holiday shopping patterns; our inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results; our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs; we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all our merchandise; our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and two third party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers; our reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and direct to consumer customers could result in disruptions to our business; we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues; modifications and or upgrades to our information technology systems may disrupt our operations; our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self insured exposures might increase our expenses and adversely impact our financial results; operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges; 8 Table of Contents we are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; our unsecured Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) and our Term Loan Agreement include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations; our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions; and compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. The following sets forth a description of the preceding risk factors that we believe may be relevant to an understanding of our business. These risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of our forward looking statements. Changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Our business depends on consumer demand for our merchandise. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. Our performance is subject to factors that affect worldwide economic conditions including unemployment, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on declines in the financial, residential real estate and mortgage markets, sales tax rates and rate increases, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence in future economic and political conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well being and security, the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies and other macroeconomic factors. During Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2009, the combination of these factors caused consumer spending in the U.S. to deteriorate significantly. While consumer spending began to improve in Fiscal 2010 and continued to improve in Fiscal 2011, these factors may cause levels of spending to remain depressed relative to historical levels for the foreseeable future. In addition, these factors may cause consumers to purchase products from lower priced competitors or to defer purchases of apparel and personal care products altogether. In addition, we have significantly expanded our presence in the European market. The ongoing Euro financial crisis may impact consumer demand for our merchandise. The economic conditions and factors described above could adversely affect the productivity of our stores, as well as adversely affect the pace of opening new international stores, or their productivity once opened. Economic uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and capital resources if reduced consumer demand for our merchandise should occur. It could also impact our ability to fund growth and or result in our becoming reliant on external financing, the availability of which may be uncertain. 9 Table of Contents In addition, the economic environment may exacerbate some of the risks noted below, including consumer demand, strain on available resources, international growth strategy, store growth, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The risks could be exacerbated individually, or collectively. If we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, and manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand, our sales levels and profitability may decline. Our success largely depends on our ability to anticipate and gauge the fashion preferences of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies constantly shifting demands in a timely manner. Our merchandise must appeal to our consumers, whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are also subject to rapid change. We must translate market trends into appropriate, saleable merchandise far in advance of its sale in our stores or through our websites. Because we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand, pricing shifts, and the sub optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will continue to anticipate consumer demands successfully in the future. To the extent we fail to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, our sales will be adversely affected. Inventory levels for certain merchandise styles no longer considered to be on trend may increase, leading to higher markdowns to sell through excess inventory or increases in inventory valuation reserves. A distressed economic and retail environment, in which many of our competitors continue to engage in aggressive promotional activities, particularly in the U.S., increases the importance of reacting appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our merchandise, or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost sales. Any of these events could significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs. Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods, or our ability to meet customer demand. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. In addition, the cost of labor at many of our third party manufacturers has been increasing significantly, and as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, it is unlikely such cost pressure will abate. The cost of transportation has been increasing as well and, if the price of oil continues to increase, and there continues to be significant unrest in the Middle East, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. We may not be able to pass all or a portion of higher raw materials prices or labor or transportation costs on to our customers, which could adversely affect our gross margin and results of our operations. 10 Table of Contents Equity based compensation awarded under the employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our cash flows, financial position or results of operations and could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding Common Stock. Under the Employment Agreement entered into as of December 19, 2008, between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the Employment Agreement), Mr. Jeffries received grants (the Retention Grants) of stock appreciation rights. In addition to the Retention Grants, Mr. Jeffries is eligible to receive two equity based grants during each fiscal year of the term of the Employment Agreement starting with Fiscal 2009 (each, a Semi Annual Grant). The value of a Semi Annual Grant is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of our Common Stock and our financial performance. To date, Mr. Jeffries has received Semi Annual Grants, in the aggregate, of 3,752,259 stock appreciation rights. In connection with the Semi Annual Grants contemplated by the Employment Agreement, the related compensation expense could significantly impact our results of operations. In addition, the significant number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued to settle the Retention Grants and the Semi Annual Grants is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of our Common Stock and our financial performance and would, if issued, have a dilutive effect with respect to our outstanding shares of Common Stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In the event that there are not sufficient shares of Common Stock available to be issued under our Amended and Restated 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan (the 2007 LTIP), or under a successor or replacement plan at the time these equity based awards are ultimately settled, we will be required to settle some portion of the awards in cash, which could have an adverse impact on our cash flow from operations, financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, the awards may not be deductible pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). In addition, under applicable accounting rules, if our stock price increases to a point where, as of any measurement date, we would be unable to settle outstanding equity based awards in shares of Common Stock from our existing plans, we will be required to classify and account for all or a portion of the equity based awards as liabilities. This could further adversely impact our results of operations. Our growth strategy relies significantly on international expansion, which adds complexity to our operations and may strain our resources and adversely impact current store performance. Our growth strategy largely depends on the opening of new international stores. This international expansion has placed, and will continue to place, increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources at all levels of the Company. These increased demands may cause us to operate our business less efficiently, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of our existing stores or could adversely affect our inventory levels. Furthermore, our ability to conduct business in international markets may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our international expansion strategy and success could also be adversely impacted by the global economy. Failure to properly implement our growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or could otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve our objectives. In addition, as we continue to expand our overseas operations, we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We must use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure our employees comply with these laws. If any of our overseas operations, or our employees or agents, violate such laws, we could become subject to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations. As we expand internationally, we may incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and distribution centers, as well as hiring experienced management. We may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, or we may face operational issues that delay our intended pace of international store openings, and, in any such case, our growth may be limited, unless we can: identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; address the different operational characteristics present in each country to which we expand, including employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, lease provisions and local reporting or legal requirements; negotiate acceptable lease terms, in some cases in locations in which the relative rights and obligations of landlords and tenants differ significantly from the customs and practices in the United States; hire, train and retain competent store personnel; gain and retain acceptance from foreign customers; manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; expand infrastructure to accommodate growth; foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan; manage foreign currency exchange risks effectively; and achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores. Failure to implement our international expansion plan consistent with our internal expectations, whether as a result of one or more of the factors listed above or other factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve the objectives that we have established for ourselves. Our direct to consumer sales are subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales. We sell merchandise for each brand over the Internet, both domestically and internationally. Our direct to consumer operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reliance on third party computer hardware/software providers; rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; diversions of sales from our stores; liability for online content; violations of state, federal or international laws, including those relating to online privacy; 12 Table of Contents credit card fraud; the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses; telecommunication failures and electronic break ins and similar disruptions; and disruption of Internet service, whether for technical reasons or as a result of state sponsored censorship. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our direct to consumer business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs related to store closures. We may incur costs associated with store closures resulting from, among other things, lease termination agreements associated with closing stores prior to the stores lease expiration date. These costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We previously announced our intention to close underperforming domestic stores, primarily through natural lease expirations, as part of our efforts to increase domestic store productivity. Our development of a new brand concept such as Gilly Hicks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, we have developed and launched new brands internally that have contributed to our sales growth. Our most recent brand, Gilly Hicks, offers bras, underwear, personal care products, sleepwear and at home products for girls. The development of new brand concepts such as Gilly Hicks requires managements focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. Furthermore, a new brand concept is susceptible to risks, including lack of customer acceptance, competition from existing or new retailers, product differentiation, production and distribution inefficiencies and unanticipated operating issues. There is no assurance that a new brand concept, including Gilly Hicks, will achieve successful results. The failure of Gilly Hicks to be launched successfully, and to achieve profitability, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The costs of exiting a brand are significant. In Fiscal 2009, we incurred pre tax exit costs of $56.1 million and pre tax impairment charges of $51.5 million associated with the closure of RUEHL. In addition, the ongoing development of new concepts may place a strain on available resources. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The functional currency of our international subsidiaries is generally the local currency in which each operates, which includes British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen, Singapore Dollars, Swedish Kronor and Swiss Francs. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, we must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of the reporting period. In addition, our international subsidiaries transact in currencies other than their functional currency, including intercompany transactions, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could impact our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, we purchase substantially our entire inventory in U.S. dollars. As a result, our gross margin rate from international operations is subject to volatility from movements in exchange rates over time, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and profitability from the growth desired from international operations. Our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. We rely heavily on our information technology systems: to operate our websites; record and process transactions; respond to customer inquiries; manage inventory; purchase; sell and ship merchandise on a timely basis; and maintain cost efficient operations. Given the significant number of transactions that are completed annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems and maintain cyber security. Despite efforts to prevent such an occurrence, our information technology systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages, third party intrusions and other technical malfunctions. If our systems are damaged, or fail to function properly, we may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the systems, and we could endure delays in our operations. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed. Such a loss or delay could especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during our peak selling seasons result in delays of merchandise delivery to our stores and customers, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales and profitability to decline. Comparable store sales may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our Common Stock. Our comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and the square footage of which has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20%, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that a variety of factors affect comparable store sales results including, but not limited to, fashion trends, actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants, changes in economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, weather conditions, opening and or closing of our stores in proximity to each other, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix and the calendar shifts of tax free and holiday periods. Comparable store sales fluctuations may impact our ability to leverage fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, comparable store sales fluctuations may have been an important factor in the volatility of the price of our Common Stock in the past, and it is likely that future comparable store sales fluctuations will contribute to stock price volatility in the future. Our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours. The sale of apparel and personal care products through stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional, national and international department stores. The substantial sales growth in the 14 Table of Contents direct to consumer channel within the last few years has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and an increase in competition from established companies. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands or preferences better than our competitors; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse demographic markets; sourcing merchandise efficiently; developing innovative, high quality merchandise in styles that appeal to our consumers and in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors; and countering the aggressive promotional activities of many of our competitors without diminishing the aspirational nature of our brands and brand equity. In light of the competitive challenges we face, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Further, increases in competition could reduce our sales and harm our operating results and business. Our stock price may be volatile and investors may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid to acquire the shares. The price of our Common Stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our Common Stock has been volatile. From February 1, 2009 to January 28, 2012, the price of our Common Stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $16.95 per share to a high of $78.25 per share. We expect our Common Stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls in which most of our stores are located. In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of the malls anchor tenants, generally large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of malls in the U.S. and, increasingly, in many international locations as shopping destinations. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls in the United States or around the world; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping malls. All of these factors may impact our ability to meet our productivity targets for our domestic stores and our growth objectives for our international stores, which are primarily mall based, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions, particularly in certain regions, have affected mall traffic and resulted in the closing of certain anchor stores. The viability of certain commercial and real estate firms, which operate major shopping malls, has also been threatened. In addition, some malls that were in prominent locations when we opened stores may cease to be viewed as prominent. If this trend continues or if the popularity of mall shopping continues to decline generally among our customers, our sales may decline, which would impact our gross profits and net income. 15 Table of Contents Part of our future growth is dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. Our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in Back to School and Holiday shopping patterns. Historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a significant amount of net sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the increased sales during the Holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third fiscal quarter, reflecting increased sales during the Back to School selling season in the U.S. Our net sales and net income during the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower due, in part, to the traditional slowdown in retail sales immediately following the Holiday selling season. As a result of this seasonality, net sales and net income during any fiscal quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including inclement weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. Our inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results. We must order and keep appropriate merchandise in stock to meet demand. As a result, the inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. High inventory levels due to unanticipated decreases in demand for our products, misidentification of fashion trends, or excess inventory purchases could require us to sell merchandise at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Low levels of inventory due to conservative planning could also affect product offerings in our stores and on our websites, and negatively impact net sales and profitability. Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brands. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Public perception about our products or our stores, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. We rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our senior executive officers closely supervise all aspects of our business in particular, the design of our merchandise and the operation of our stores. Our senior executive officers have substantial 16 Table of Contents experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. If we were to lose the benefit of their involvement in particular the services of any one or more of Michael S. Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Diane Chang, Executive Vice President Sourcing; Leslee K. Herro, Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation; Jonathan E. Ramsden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ronald A. Robins, Jr., Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary without adequate succession plans, our business could be adversely affected. Competition for such senior executive officers is intense, and we cannot be sure we will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified senior executive officers in future periods. Interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. We source the majority of our merchandise outside of the U.S. through arrangements with approximately 170 vendors which includes foreign manufacturers located throughout the world, primarily in Asia and Central and South America. In addition, many of our domestic manufacturers maintain production facilities overseas. Political, social or economic instability in Asia, Central or South America, or in other regions in which our manufacturers are located, could cause disruptions in trade, including exports to the U.S. Other events that could also cause disruptions to exports to the U.S. include: the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; reliance on a limited number of shipping and air carriers who may experience capacity issues that adversely affect our ability to ship inventory in a timely manner or for an acceptable cost; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements; economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession); fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; restrictions on the transfer of funds; the potential of manufacturer financial instability, inability to access needed liquidity or bankruptcy; significant labor disputes, such as dock strikes; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; natural disasters; and regulations to address climate change. In addition, we cannot predict whether the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured, or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all our merchandise. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. As a result, the continued success of our operations is tied to our timely receipt of quality merchandise from third party manufacturers. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by foreign manufacturers. We cannot control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters, political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, and acts of terrorism, that might affect a manufacturers ability to ship orders of our merchandise in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. A manufacturers inability to ship orders in a timely manner or meet our quality standards could cause delays in responding to consumer demands and negatively affect consumer confidence in the quality and value of our brands or negatively impact our competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also susceptible to increases in sourcing costs from our manufacturers which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, while we utilize third party compliance auditors to visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturers, we do not have control of the independent manufacturers or their labor practices. As a result, the risk remains that one or more of our manufacturers will not adhere to our global compliance standards and violate labor laws or other laws, including consumer and product safety laws. Non governmental organizations might attempt to create an unfavorable impression of our sourcing practices or the practices of some of our vendors or manufacturers that could harm our image. If either of these events occur, we could lose customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition. Our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and two third party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers. Our two distribution centers located in New Albany, Ohio, manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to our North American stores and to our North American and Asian direct to consumer customers. We also use a third party distribution center in the Netherlands to manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores and direct to consumer customers in Europe and a third party distribution center in Hong Kong to manage receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores in Asia. As a result, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as system failures, accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. If our distribution operations were disrupted, our ability to replace inventory in our stores and process direct to consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. We are in the process of consolidating our two distribution centers in New Albany into one distribution center, with an expected completion date at the end of Fiscal 2012. This consolidation requires managements focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. We believe this consolidation will result in improved operational efficiencies and that one distribution center in New Albany is adequate. However, if we are unable to operate effectively with one distribution center, our distribution operations could be disrupted. Furthermore, consolidation into one distribution center increases our susceptibility to risks associated with system failures, accidents, weather conditions, natural disasters, and other unforeseen 18 Table of Contents circumstances. If our operations are disrupted, our ability to replace inventory in our stores and process direct to consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. Our reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and direct to consumer customers could result in disruptions to our business. The efficient operation of our stores and direct to consumer business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution centers. We deliver our merchandise to our stores and direct to consumer customers using independent third parties. We utilize primarily one contract carrier to ship merchandise and related materials to our North American stores and direct to consumer customers, and a separate contract carrier for our European and Asian stores and direct to consumer customers. The independent third parties employ personnel that may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, we are susceptible to increases in fuel costs which may increase the cost of distribution. If we are not able to pass this cost on to our customers, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues. A significant portion of our customer orders are placed through our websites. In addition, a significant portion of sales made through our retail stores requires the collection of certain customer data, such as credit card information. In order for our sales channels to function and develop successfully, we and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or knowledge to breach the security of customer transaction data. Although we have security measures related to our systems and the privacy of our customers, we cannot guarantee these measures will effectively prevent others from obtaining unauthorized access to our information and our customers information. Any person who circumvents our security measures could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. A security breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our websites or stores and choose not to purchase from us. Any security breach could also expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability, and could seriously disrupt operations and harm our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, state, federal and foreign governments are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. These laws and regulations will likely increase the costs of doing business and if we fail to implement appropriate security measures, or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws and regulations, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Modifications and or upgrades to our information technology systems may disrupt our operations. We regularly evaluate our information technology systems and requirements and are currently implementing modifications and or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. Modifications include replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to 19 Table of Contents existing systems, or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of the inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information, system disruptions and user acceptance and understanding. We believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through disciplined adherence to methodology, program management, testing and user involvement, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third party vendors supplying the replacement technologies. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver the anticipated value to us. Our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results. Our retail stores, corporate offices, distribution centers, infrastructure projects and direct to consumer operations, as well as the operations of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to damage from natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events. If any of these events result in damage to our facilities, systems or stores, or the facilities or systems of our vendors or manufacturers, we may experience interruptions in our business until the damage is repaired, resulting in the potential loss of customers and revenues. In addition, we may incur costs in repairing any damage which exceeds our applicable insurance coverage. Our business is also vulnerable to any interruption related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in countries where we have retail locations or source our merchandise. Our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to our business, such as litigation regarding overtime compensation and other employment or wage and hour related matters. Our current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with managements evaluation of the claims. Should managements evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets. We believe our trademarks, Abercrombie & Fitch&reg;, abercrombie&reg;, Hollister&reg;, Gilly Hicks&reg; and the Moose and Seagull logos, are an essential element of our strategy. We have obtained or applied for federal registration of these trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, we own registrations and have pending applications for other trademarks in the U.S. and have applied for or obtained registrations from the registries in many foreign countries in which our stores or our manufacturers are located. There can be no assurance that we will obtain registrations that have been applied for or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If a third party copies our products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Because we have not yet registered all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which we source or offer our merchandise now, or may in the future, our international expansion and our merchandising of products using these marks could be limited. For example, we cannot ensure that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of our products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. The pending applications for international registration of various trademarks could be challenged or rejected in those countries because third parties of whom we are not currently aware have already registered similar marks in those countries. Accordingly, it may be possible, in those foreign countries where the status of various applications is pending or unclear, for a third party owner of the national trademark registration for a similar mark to prohibit the manufacture, sale or exportation of branded goods in or from that country. If we are unable to reach an arrangement with any such party, our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture our products, and we may be unable to sell in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from, or manufacture in, less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan include selling our merchandise in those non U.S. jurisdictions. We have an anti counterfeiting program, under the auspices of the Abercrombie & Fitch Brand Protection Team, whose goal is to eliminate the supply of illegal pieces of our products. The Brand Protection Team interacts with investigators, customs officials and law enforcement entities throughout the world to combat the illegal use of our trademarks. Although brand security initiatives are in place, we cannot guarantee that our efforts against the counterfeiting of our brands will be successful. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and or sales, consumption or value added taxes (or VAT) in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in any given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Fluctuations in duties could also have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In some international markets, we are required to hold and submit VAT to the appropriate local tax authorities. Failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amounts could subject us to substantial fines and penalties that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, tax legislation may be enacted in the future, domestically or abroad, that impacts our current or future tax structure and effective tax rate. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and the associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism have disrupted commerce and have intensified uncertainties in the U.S. economy. Any further acts of terrorism or a future war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending and or mall 21 Table of Contents traffic to decline. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any other unforeseen interruption of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from foreign manufacturers. Our inability to obtain merchandise from our foreign manufacturers or substitute other manufacturers, at similar costs and in a timely manner, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self insured exposures might increase our expenses and adversely impact our financial results. We believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management in certain areas of our business. Insurance costs may increase substantially in the future and may be affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism, financial irregularities and other fraud at publicly held companies, intervention by the government or a decrease in the number of insurance carriers. In addition, the carriers with which we hold our policies may go out of business, or may be otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. Furthermore, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices, if at all. Therefore, we may choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self insure one or more types or levels of risk. We are primarily self insured for workers compensation and employee health benefits. If we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance or our self insurance reserves, the loss and attendant expenses could harm our business and operating results. In addition, exposures could exist for which no insurance may be available and for which we have not reserved. Operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges. Long lived assets, primarily property and equipment, are reviewed at the store level at least annually for impairment, or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that a full recovery of net asset values through future cash flows is in question. The review could result in significant charges related to underperforming stores which could impact our results of operations. Furthermore, our impairment review requires us to make estimates and projections regarding, but not limited to, future cash flows. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for our store locations and other property and equipment. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be, and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain store locations and other property and equipment. We have recognized significant impairment charges in the past and may do so in the future. We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including customs, truth in advertising, consumer protection, general privacy, health information privacy, identity theft, online privacy, unsolicited commercial communication and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and distribution centers. As our business becomes more international in scope and we enter more countries internationally, the number of laws and regulations that we are subject to, as well as their scope and reach, increase significantly and heighten our risks. If these laws and regulations were to change, or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, vendors or other parties with whom we do business, the costs of 22 Table of Contents certain merchandise could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our merchandise, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to protect personally identifiable information of our customers or associates could subject us to considerable reputational harm, as well as significant fines, penalties and sanctions both domestically and abroad. In addition, changes in federal, state and international minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability. We are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules which could subject us to enforcement actions, de listing and adverse legal sanctions for non compliance. Changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory landscape. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation including those related to health care, taxes, transportation and logistics, privacy, environmental issues, trade, product safety or employment and labor, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our unsecured Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) and our Term Loan Agreement include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement expires on July 27, 2016, and market conditions could potentially impact the size and terms of a replacement facility. The commitment of the lenders to make loans under the Term Loan Agreement expires on February 22, 2013 and the Term Loan Agreement has a maturity date of February 23, 2017. Both our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement contain financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If we fail to comply with the covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result, and the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we cannot guarantee that we would have sufficient liquidity at that time to repay or refinance borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and or the Term Loan Agreement. The inability to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms, or a default under the current Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and or the Term Loan Agreement, could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations. Our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. We are uncertain how the U.S. and international economies will be affected by potential legislation and public reactions. As a result, the effect this could have on our operations is presently unknown. 23 Table of Contents Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. Changing regulatory requirements for corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC regulations and the Financial Accounting Standards Boards accounting standards requirements are creating additional complexities for public companies. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as say on pay and proxy access. Stockholder activism, the current political environment, financial reform legislation and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations. In addition, the expected future requirement to transition to, or converge with, international financial reporting standards is creating uncertainty and additional complexities. These changing regulatory requirements may lead to additional compliance costs, as well as the diversion of our managements time and attention from strategic business activities and could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. The Companys headquarters and support functions occupy 491 acres, consisting of the home office, distribution and shipping facilities centralized on a campus like setting in New Albany, Ohio and an additional small distribution and shipping facility located in the Columbus, Ohio area, all of which are owned by the Company. Additionally, the Company leases small facilities to house its design and sourcing support centers in Hong Kong, New York City and Los Angeles, California, as well as offices in the United Kingdom, Japan, Switzerland, Italy and China. All of the retail stores operated by the Company, as of March 16, 2012, are located in leased facilities, primarily in shopping centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The leases expire at various dates, between 2012 and 2031. The Companys home office, distribution and shipping facilities, design support centers and stores are currently suitable and adequate. As of March 16, 2012, the Companys 1,047 stores were located in North America, Europe and Asia as follows: U.S. & U.S. Territories: Alabama 6 Kentucky 9 North Dakota 1 Alaska 1 Louisiana 10 Ohio 31 Arizona 16 Maine 4 Oklahoma 7 Arkansas 7 Maryland 19 Oregon 10 California 130 Massachusetts 34 Pennsylvania 44 Colorado 10 Michigan 26 Rhode Island 3 Connecticut 20 Minnesota 16 South Carolina 10 Delaware 5 Mississippi 2 South Dakota 1 District Of Columbia 1 Missouri 14 Tennessee 21 Florida 74 Montana 2 Texas 87 Georgia 22 Nebraska 4 Utah 8 Hawaii 5 Nevada 13 Vermont 2 Idaho 3 New Hampshire 10 Virginia 23 Illinois 40 New Jersey 40 Washington 20 Indiana 21 New Mexico 3 West Virginia 5 Iowa 7 New York 54 Wisconsin 13 Kansas 5 North Carolina 26 Puerto Rico 1 International Stores: Canada 19 France 5 Sweden 2 Denmark 1 China 3 Germany 15 Belgium 3 Italy 7 Ireland 1 Japan 2 Austria 3 Spain 9 Hong Kong 1 United Kingdom 29 Singapore 1 26 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. A&F is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Moreover, the Companys assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries, administrative agencies or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with the Companys evaluation of claims. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company intends to defend the following pending matters vigorously, as appropriate. The Companys identified contingencies include the following matters: On September 16, 2005, a derivative action, styled The Booth Family Trust v. Michael S. Jeffries, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, naming A&F as a nominal defendant and seeking to assert claims for unspecified damages against nine of A&Fs present and former directors, alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty and seeking equitable and monetary relief. In the following three months, four similar derivative actions were filed (three in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio and one in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio) against present and former directors of A&F alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty allegedly arising out of antecedent employment law and securities class actions brought against the Company. A consolidated amended derivative complaint was filed in the federal proceeding on July 10, 2006. On February 16, 2007, A&F announced that its Board of Directors had received a report of the Special Litigation Committee established by the Board to investigate and act with respect to claims asserted in the derivative cases, which concluded that there was no evidence to support the asserted claims and directed the Company to seek dismissal of the derivative cases. On September 10, 2007, the Company moved to dismiss the federal derivative cases on the authority of the Special Litigation Committee Report. On March 12, 2009, the Companys motion was granted and, on April 10, 2009, plaintiffs filed an appeal from the order of dismissal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. On April 5, 2011, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the decision of the District Court and remanded the action for further proceedings. On November 1, 2011, the District Court entered an order which gave preliminary approval to a proposed settlement of the consolidated derivative litigation. The District Court also set a hearing (the Fairness Hearing) for December 13, 2011 to determine whether the proposed settlement should be finally approved and to consider an award of fees and expenses to plaintiffs counsel. The District Court also directed that notice be given to the Companys stockholders concerning the proposed settlement and their right to be heard in connection with the Fairness Hearing. On December 19, 2011, the District Court, after the Fairness Hearing, entered a final order (1) approving the proposed settlement submitted to the District Court by the parties to the derivative litigation and (2) dismissing with prejudice all claims contained in the 2005 derivative cases. The District Courts order also resulted in dismissal of the state court derivative action, which had been stayed pending resolution of the federal derivative cases. On December 21, 2007, Spencer de la Cruz, a former employee, filed an action against Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc. (collectively, the Defendants) in the Superior Court of Orange County, California (the Court). He sought to allege, on behalf of himself and a putative class of past and present employees in the period beginning on December 19, 2003, claims for 27 Table of Contents failure to provide meal breaks, for waiting time penalties, for failure to keep accurate employment records, and for unfair business practices. By successive amendments, plaintiff added 10 additional plaintiffs and additional claims seeking injunctive relief, unpaid wages, penalties, interest, and attorneys fees and costs. Defendants denied the material allegations of plaintiffs complaints throughout the litigation and asserted numerous affirmative defenses. On July 23, 2010, plaintiffs moved for class certification in the action. On December 9, 2010, after briefing and argument, the Court granted in part and denied in part plaintiffs motion, certifying sub classes to pursue meal break claims, meal premium pay claims, work related travel claims, travel expense claims, termination pay claims, reporting time claims, bag check claims, pay record claims, and minimum wage claims. The parties continued to litigate questions relating to the Courts certification order and to the merits of plaintiffs claims until January 25, 2012. On that date, the named plaintiffs and the Defendants signed a memorandum of understanding which, subject to final Court approval, was intended to result in a full and final settlement of all claims in the action on a class wide basis. A formal Settlement Agreement and related papers were filed with the Court on February 21, 2012 and the Court scheduled a hearing on March 14, 2012 to determine whether to provide preliminary approval to the proposed settlement and to order that notice of the proposed settlement be given to the absent members of the settlement class. On March 14, 2012, the Court continued the hearing to April 18, 2012. As of January 28, 2012, the Company increased its litigation reserve to cover the expected cost of the proposed settlement. On October 17, 2011, Amber Echavez a former employee, filed an action against Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and two of its subsidiaries (collectively, the Defendants) in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California. She alleged the Defendants violated California labor laws by failing to provide suitable seats for her and for other current and former employees. She sought to maintain the suit as a class action on behalf of a class of retail sales employees and also as a representative action under Californias Private Attorney General Act of 2004 (PAGA). On November 23, 2011, the Defendants removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California (the Court) and on February 6, 2012, moved (1) to dismiss the action for failure to state a claim and (2) to strike plaintiffs class allegations. On March 12, 2012, the Court entered an order denying Defendants motion to dismiss and granting Defendants motion to strike plaintiffs class allegations. The parties are continuing to litigate plaintiffs remaining claims. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. Set forth below is certain information regarding the executive officers of A&F as of March 16, 2012: Michael S. Jeffries, 67, has been Chairman of A&F since May 1998. Mr. Jeffries has been Chief Executive Officer of A&F since February 1992. From February 1992 to May 1998, Mr. Jeffries held the title of President of A&F. Under the terms of the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, between A&F and Mr. Jeffries, A&F is obligated to cause Mr. Jeffries to be nominated as a director of A&F during his employment term. Diane Chang, 56, has been Executive Vice President Sourcing of A&F since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Chang held the position of Senior Vice President Sourcing of A&F from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Sourcing of A&F from May 1998 to February 2000. Leslee K. Herro, 51, has been Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation of A&F since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Herro held the position of Senior Vice President Planning and Allocation of A&F from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Planning & Allocation of A&F from February 1994 to February 2000. Jonathan E. Ramsden, 47, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of A&F since December 2008. From December 1998 to December 2008, Mr. Ramsden served as Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Committee of TBWA Worldwide, a large advertising agency network and a division of Omnicom Group Inc. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer of TWBA Worldwide, he served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Omnicom Group Inc. from June 1996 to December 1998. Ronald A. Robins, Jr., 48, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of A&F since August 2010. Mr. Robins joined A&F in November 2009 as Deputy General Counsel after spending 16 years at Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP, 13 years as a partner in the firms corporate and finance practice group. Mr. Robins clerked for The Honorable Milton Pollack of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York from 1989 to 1990. Before joining Vorys, Mr. Robins practiced for several years as an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York City. The executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of A&F and, in the case of Mr. Jeffries, pursuant to an employment agreement. 30 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. A&Fs Class A Common Stock (the Common Stock) is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANF. The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of A&Fs Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010: Sales Price High Low Fiscal 2011 4th Quarter $ 76.33 $ 43.56 3rd Quarter $ 77.49 $ 55.70 2nd Quarter $ 78.25 $ 62.46 1st Quarter $ 72.61 $ 48.40 Fiscal 2010 4th Quarter $ 58.50 $ 41.55 3rd Quarter $ 45.75 $ 33.97 2nd Quarter $ 45.71 $ 29.94 1st Quarter $ 51.12 $ 31.31 A quarterly dividend, of $0.175 per share, was paid in each of March, June, September and December in each of Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2011. A&F expects to continue to pay a quarterly dividend, subject to the Board of Directors review of the Companys cash position and results of operations. As of March 16, 2012, there were approximately 4,300 stockholders of record. However, when including investors holding shares in broker accounts under street name, active associates of the Company who participate in A&Fs stock purchase plan, and associates of the Company who own shares through A&F sponsored retirement plans, A&F estimates that there are approximately 42,360 stockholders. The following table provides information regarding the purchase of shares of the Common Stock of A&F made by or on behalf of A&F or any affiliated purchaser as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, during each fiscal month of the quarterly period ended January 28, 2012: Period (Fiscal Month) Total Numberof SharesPurchased(1) AveragePrice Paidper Share(2) Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plans orPrograms(3) Maximum Number ofShares that May Yetbe Purchased underthe Plans orPrograms(4) October 30, 2011 through November 26, 2011 1,019,876 $ 49.15 1,017,290 7,218,968 November 27, 2011 through December 31, 2011 1,002,878 $ 47.91 1,000,000 6,218,968 January 1, 2012 through January 28, 2012 471 $ 47.40 6,218,968 Total 2,023,225 $ 48.53 2,017,290 6,218,968 (1) An aggregate of 5,935 of the shares of A&Fs Common Stock purchased during the thirteen week period ended January 28, 2012, represented shares which were withheld for tax payments due upon the 31 Table of Contents vesting of employee restricted stock unit and restricted share awards and upon the exercise of employee stock appreciation rights. All other shares of A&F Common Stock purchased during the quarterly period were purchased pursuant to A&Fs publically announced stock repurchase authorization described in footnote 3 below. (2) The average price paid per share includes broker commissions, as applicable. (3) The reported shares were purchased pursuant to A&Fs publicly announced stock repurchase authorization. On November 21, 2007, A&F announced the November 20, 2007 authorization by A&Fs Board of Directors to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock. (4) The number shown represents, as of the end of each period, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may yet be purchased under A&Fs publicly announced stock repurchase authorization described in footnote 3 above. The shares may be purchased, from time to time, depending on market conditions. During Fiscal 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a cost of approximately $196.6 million. During Fiscal 2010, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a cost of approximately $76.2 million. A&F did not repurchase any shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market during Fiscal 2009. Both the Fiscal 2011 and the Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to authorizations of A&Fs Board of Directors. 32 Table of Contents The following graph shows the changes, over the five year period ended January 28, 2012 (the last day of A&Fs Fiscal 2011) in the value of $100 invested in (i) shares of A&Fs Common Stock; (ii) the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (the S&P 500 Index) and (iii) the Standard & Poors Apparel Retail Composite Index (the S&P Apparel Retail Index), including reinvestment of dividends. The plotted points represent the closing price on the last trading day of the fiscal year indicated. PERFORMANCE GRAPH(1) COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Abercrombie & Fitch Co., the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Apparel Retail Index * $100 invested on 2/3/07 in stock or 1/31/07 in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Indexes calculated on month end basis. Copyright&copy; 2011 S&P, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. (1) This graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to SEC Regulation 14A or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), except to the extent that A&F specifically requests that the graph be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Thousands, except per share and per square foot amounts, ratios and store and associate data) Summary of Operations (Information below excludes amounts related to discontinued operations, except where otherwise noted) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net Sales $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 $ 3,484,058 $ 3,699,656 Gross Profit $ 2,518,870 $ 2,212,181 $ 1,883,598 $ 2,331,095 $ 2,488,166 Operating Income $ 190,030 $ 231,932 $ 117,912 $ 498,262 $ 778,909 Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 126,862 $ 150,283 $ 78,953 $ 308,169 $ 499,127 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax(1) $ 796 $ $ (78,699 ) $ (35,914 ) $ (23,430 ) Net Income(1) $ 127,658 $ 150,283 $ 254 $ 272,255 $ 475,697 Dividends Declared Per Share $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 Net Income Per Share from Continuing Operations Basic $ 1.46 $ 1.71 $ 0.90 $ 3.55 $ 5.72 Diluted $ 1.42 $ 1.67 $ 0.89 $ 3.45 $ 5.45 Net Income (Loss) Per Share from Discontinued Operations(1) Basic $ 0.01 $ $ (0.90 ) $ (0.41 ) $ (0.27 ) Diluted $ 0.01 $ $ (0.89 ) $ (0.40 ) $ (0.26 ) Net Income Per Share(1) Basic $ 1.47 $ 1.71 $ 0.00 $ 3.14 $ 5.45 Diluted $ 1.43 $ 1.67 $ 0.00 $ 3.05 $ 5.20 Basic Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 86,848 88,061 87,874 86,816 87,248 Diluted Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 89,537 89,851 88,609 89,291 91,523 Other Financial Information Total Assets (including discontinued operations) $ 3,048,153 $ 2,941,415 $ 2,821,866 $ 2,848,181 $ 2,567,598 Return on Average Assets(2) 4 % 5 % 0 % 10 % 20 % Working Capital(3) $ 783,422 $ 874,417 $ 776,311 $ 622,213 $ 585,575 Current Ratio(4) $ 2.11 $ 2.56 $ 2.73 $ 2.38 $ 2.08 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities(1) $ 365,219 $ 391,789 $ 395,487 $ 491,031 $ 817,524 Capital Expenditures $ 318,598 $ 160,935 $ 175,472 $ 367,602 $ 403,345 Long Term Debt $ 57,851 $ 68,566 $ 71,213 $ 100,000 $ Stockholders Equity (including discontinued operations) $ 1,862,456 $ 1,890,784 $ 1,827,917 $ 1,845,578 $ 1,618,313 Return on Average Stockholders Equity(5) 7 % 8 % 0 % 16 % 31 % Comparable Store Sales(6) 5 % 7 % (23 )% (13 )% (1 )% Net Store Sales Per Average Gross Square Foot $ 463 $ 390 $ 339 $ 432 $ 503 Stores at End of Year and Average Associates Total Number of Stores Open 1,045 1,069 1,096 1,097 1,013 Gross Square Feet 7,778 7,756 7,848 7,760 7,133 Average Number of Associates(7) 91,000 83,000 83,000 96,200 94,600 (1) Includes results of operations from RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. Results from discontinued operations were immaterial in Fiscal 2010. (2) Return on Average Assets is computed by dividing net income (including discontinued operations) by the average asset balance (including discontinued operations). 34 Table of Contents (3) Working Capital is computed by subtracting current liabilities (including discontinued operations) from current assets (including discontinued operations). (4) Current Ratio is computed by dividing current assets (including discontinued operations) by current liabilities (including discontinued operations). (5) Return on Average Stockholders Equity is computed by dividing net income (including discontinued operations) by the average stockholders equity balance (including discontinued operations). (6) A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. (7) Includes employees from RUEHL operations. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty two week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty three week year. A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. For purposes of this ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 and the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 30, 2010. The Company had net sales of $4.158 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, an increase of 20% from $3.469 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. Operating income for Fiscal 2011 was $190.0 million, which was down from $231.9 million in Fiscal 2010. Net income from continuing operations was $126.9 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share was $1.42 in Fiscal 2011, compared to net income from continuing operations of $150.3 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share of $1.67 in Fiscal 2010. Excluding charges for impairments and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements and a change in intent regarding the Companys auction rate securities (ARS), the Company reported adjusted, non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.30 for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. Excluding store related asset impairment charges and exit charges associated with domestic store closures, the Company reported non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.05 for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. 36 Table of Contents The Company believes that the non GAAP financial measures are useful to investors as they provide the ability to measure the Companys operating performance and compare it against that of prior periods without reference to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income impact of non cash, store related asset impairment charges, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the fiscal year and a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. These non GAAP financial measures should not be used as alternatives to net income per diluted share or as indicators of the ongoing operating performance of the Company and are also not intended to supersede or replace the Companys GAAP financial measures. The table below reconciles the GAAP financial measures to the non GAAP financial measures discussed above. Fifty Two Weeks Ended January 28, 2012 January 29, 2011 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis $ 1.42 $ 1.67 Plus: Asset impairment charges(1) 0.49 0.34 Plus: Asset write downs(2) 0.10 Plus: Store closure and lease exit charges(3) 0.13 0.03 Plus: Legal charges(4) 0.07 Plus: ARS charges(5) 0.09 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a non GAAP basis $ 2.30 $ 2.05 Plus: Net income from discontinued operations 0.01 Net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis $ 2.31 $ 2.05 (1) The store related asset impairment charges relate to stores whose asset carrying value exceeded their fair value. For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was associated with 14 Abercrombie & Fitch, 21 abercrombie kids, 42 Hollister and two Gilly Hicks stores. For the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011, the charge was associated with two Abercrombie & Fitch, two abercrombie kids, nine Hollister and 13 Gilly Hicks stores. (2) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the asset write downs was related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project. (3) For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the charges for store closures and lease exits were associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. (4) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was related to legal settlements during the fourth quarter. (5) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the ARS was related to a change in intent with regard to the Companys auction rate securities portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment. Net cash provided by operating activities, the Companys primary source of liquidity, was $365.2 million for Fiscal 2011. This source of cash was primarily driven by results from operations, adjusted for non cash items, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses partially offset by increases in inventory. The Company used $318.6 million of cash for capital expenditures. The Company 37 Table of Contents also repurchased $196.6 million of Common Stock, paid dividends totaling $61.0 million, repaid borrowings under the credit agreement of $45.0 million and received $46.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options during Fiscal 2011. As of January 28, 2012, the Company had $583.5 million in cash and equivalents, no outstanding debt aside from that related to landlord financing obligations, and immaterial stand by letters of credit. The following data represents the amounts shown in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2011 2010 2009 NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 39.4 36.2 35.7 GROSS PROFIT 60.6 63.8 64.3 Stores and Distribution Expense 45.4 45.8 48.7 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 10.5 11.6 12.1 Other Operating Expense (Income), Net 0.1 (0.3 ) (0.5 ) OPERATING INCOME 4.6 6.7 4.0 Interest Expense (Income), Net 0.1 0.1 (0.1 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES 4.5 6.6 4.1 Tax Expense from Continuing Operations 1.4 2.3 1.4 NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 3.1 4.3 2.7 INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, Net of Taxes 0.0 (2.7 ) NET INCOME 3.1 % 4.3 % 0.0 % 38 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and statistical data compares Fiscal 2011 to Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2009, and Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008: 2011 2010 2009 Net sales by segment (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 U.S. Stores $ 2,710,842 $ 2,546,798 $ 2,377,771 International Stores $ 876,613 $ 505,136 $ 256,216 Direct to consumer $ 552,603 $ 404,974 $ 290,102 Other $ 18,000 $ 11,869 $ 4,537 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% U.S. Stores 6 % 7 % (21 )% International Stores 74 % 97 % 70 % Direct to consumer 36 % 40 % (8 )% Other 52 % 162 % 15 % Net sales by brand (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 Abercrombie & Fitch $ 1,665,135 $ 1,493,101 $ 1,272,287 abercrombie $ 397,904 $ 382,579 $ 343,164 Hollister $ 2,022,002 $ 1,552,814 $ 1,287,241 Gilly Hicks** $ 73,017 $ 40,283 $ 25,934 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 12 % 17 % (17 )% abercrombie 4 % 11 % (18 )% Hollister 30 % 21 % (15 )% Gilly Hicks 81 % 55 % 45 % Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales* 5 % 7 % (23 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 3 % 9 % (19 )% abercrombie 4 % 5 % (23 )% Hollister 8 % 6 % (27 )% * A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand 12 months or more and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. ** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 reflect the activity of 21, 19 and 16 stores, respectively. CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Our results for Fiscal 2011 were below our expectations in a very challenging environment. During Fiscal 2011, we saw all time high cotton costs, resulting in higher average unit costs. In addition, we were not able to offset the increases in the costs with increased average unit retail prices due to a highly aggressive promotional environment in the U.S. We expect to see a significant reversal in the average unit cost trend in Fiscal 2012, especially in the second half of the year; however, we remain cautious about our ability to raise average unit retail prices in the U.S. We expect significant margin improvement in Fiscal 2012 due primarily to a combination of average unit cost reductions and the expected performance of our 39 Table of Contents new international stores and our direct to consumer business. We will continue to take a long term approach, and will not sacrifice quality to achieve cost reductions. We are confident that we are on track in regard to our long term strategy of leveraging the international appeal of our brands to build a highly profitable, sustainable, global business. There are five key elements to this strategy. First, continuing to provide high quality, trend right merchandise and a compelling and differentiated store experience. Second, continuing to close underperforming U.S. chain stores. During Fiscal 2011, we closed 68 U.S. chain stores, predominately at the end of the year through natural lease expirations, bringing the total stores closed over the last two years to 135 stores. Third, advancing our direct to consumer business, which should benefit from multiple investments we are making in the business and from our growing international presence. Fourth, continuing to focus on our highly profitable international real estate plan. During Fiscal 2011, we opened five new A&F flagship stores and 39 international Hollister stores. In Fiscal 2012, we expect to open A&F flagship or Tier 1 stores in Hamburg, Hong Kong, Munich, Amsterdam and Dublin, and we expect to open close to 40 Hollister international stores. Finally, maintaining tight control over expenses and seeking greater efficiencies, for example, through consolidation of our two domestic distribution centers. The consolidation is expected to be completed by the end of Fiscal 2012 and is expected to facilitate the sale or lease of the second distribution center and result in reduced operating costs. Based on these factors, we anticipate strong EPS growth in Fiscal 2012, notwithstanding an approximately flat same store sales assumption. Longer term, our objective remains to deliver consistent and sustainable growth in sales and EPS. We believe trend rates of close to 15% in sales and somewhat above that in EPS are realistic goals. The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; U.S. and International store performance; Store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; 40 Table of Contents Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2011 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2010 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2011 were $4.158 billion, an increase of 20% from Fiscal 2010 net sales of $3.469 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to new stores, primarily international, a 5% increase in comparable store sales, and a 36% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. The impact of foreign currency on sales (based on converting prior year sales at current year exchange rates) for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 was a benefit of $21.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $2.711 billion, an increase of 6% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $2.547 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $876.6 million, an increase of 74% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $505.1 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2011, including shipping and handling revenue, were $552.6 million, an increase of 36% from Fiscal 2010 direct to consumer sales of $405.0 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 13.3% of total net sales in Fiscal 2011 compared to 11.7% in Fiscal 2010. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2011 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 3%, with mens and womens increasing by a low single digit percent. abercrombie kids increased 4%, with guys increasing by a high single digit and girls increasing by a low single digit. Hollister increased 8%, with dudes and bettys increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, the Southern and the Western regions of the U.S. were the strongest performing regions, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. From a merchandise classification standpoint, fleece, active wear, and knit tops were stronger performing categories for the male business while graphics and woven shirts were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, sweaters, and knit tops were stronger performing categories, while graphics and dresses were weaker performing categories. 41 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2011 was $2.519 billion compared to $2.212 billion during Fiscal 2010. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 60.6%, down 320 basis points from the Fiscal 2010 rate of 63.8%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in average unit cost combined with higher markdowns. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2011 was $1.888 billion compared to $1.590 billion in Fiscal 2010. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 45.4% compared to 45.8% in Fiscal 2010. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 included store related asset impairment charges of $68.0 million associated with 79 stores, asset write down charges of $14.6 million related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project, and store exit charges of $19.0 million, associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. For the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $53.6 million and $38.9 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $62.8 million and $42.8 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2011 was $437.1 million compared to $400.8 million in Fiscal 2010. For Fiscal 2011, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.5%, compared to 11.6% for Fiscal 2010. Marketing, general and administrative expense for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 included $10.0 million in charges in connection with fourth quarter legal settlements. In addition to legal settlement charges, the increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2011 was primarily due to increases in compensation, including equity compensation, outside services, marketing, travel and IT expenses. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense, net was $3.5 million compared to other operating income, net of $10.1 million for Fiscal 2010. Other operating expense, net for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 42 Table of Contents included $13.4 million of expense related to a change in the Companys intent regarding the sale of its ARS portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment in Fiscal 2011. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense Fiscal 2011 interest expense was $7.9 million, offset by interest income of $4.3 million, compared to interest expense of $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million for Fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 was 32.0% compared to 34.3% for Fiscal 2010, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. As of January 28, 2012, there were approximately $25.6 million of net deferred tax assets in Japan with a valuation allowance of $2.4 million. The valuation allowance in Japan was established as the result of changes to the business configuration of operations in Japan, as well as tax law changes. The realization of the net deferred tax assets not subject to a valuation allowance is dependent upon the future generation of sufficient profits in Japan. While the Company believes it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized, it is not certain. Should circumstances change, some or all of the net deferred tax assets not currently subject to a valuation allowance may be in the future. Any increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional tax expense. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for all years presented. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2011 was $127.7 million compared to $150.3 million for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 was $1.43 compared to $1.67 for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.49 per diluted share, asset write down charges of approximately $0.10 per diluted share, store closure and exit charges of approximately $0.13 per diluted share, legal charges of approximately $0.07 per diluted share, and other than temporary impairment charges of approximately $0.09 per diluted share related to a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS portfolio. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share. Refer to the GAAP reconciliation table in the OVERVIEW section of ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for a reconciliation of net income per diluted share on a GAAP basis to net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis, excluding charges for impairment and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the quarter and with a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. 43 Table of Contents FISCAL 2010 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2009 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2010 were $3.469 billion, an increase of 18% from Fiscal 2009 net sales of $2.929 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, a 40% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, and new stores, primarily international. The impact of foreign currency on sales for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 was less than 1% of net sales. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $2.547 billion, an increase of 7% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $2.378 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $505.1 million, an increase of 97% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $256.2 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2010, including shipping and handling revenue, were $405.0 million, an increase of 40% from Fiscal 2009 direct to consumer sales of $290.1 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.7% of total net sales in Fiscal 2010 compared to 9.9% in Fiscal 2009. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2010 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 9%, with womens increasing by a high single digit percent and mens increasing by a low double digit. abercrombie kids increased 5%, with girls and guys each increasing by a mid single digit. Hollister increased 6%, with bettys increasing by a mid single digit and dudes increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, Europe was the strongest performing region, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. For Fiscal 2010, from a comparable store sales perspective across all brands, the masculine categories out paced the feminine categories. From a merchandise classification standpoint, woven shirts, fleece, and outerwear were stronger performing categories for the male business while jeans and graphics were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, dresses, and fleece were stronger performing categories, while knit tops and jeans were weaker performing categories. Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2010 was $2.212 billion compared to $1.884 billion during Fiscal 2009. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was 63.8%, down 50 basis points from the Fiscal 2009 rate of 64.3%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by a 9% decrease in average unit retail, which was partially offset by a reduction in average unit cost. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2010 was $1.590 billion compared to $1.426 billion in Fiscal 2009. The stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was 45.8% compared to 48.7% in Fiscal 2009. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. For the fifty two weeks ended January 30, 2010, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 99 stores of $33.2 million. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy and payroll costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $38.9 million and $30.7 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $42.8 million and $34.1 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2010 was $400.8 million compared to $353.3 million in Fiscal 2009. For Fiscal 2010, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.6%, compared to 12.1% for Fiscal 2009. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits, including incentive and equity compensation, and net legal expense. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income, net for Fiscal 2010 was $10.1 million compared to $13.5 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower net gains from foreign currency denominated transactions compared to Fiscal 2009. In Fiscal 2009, other operating income also benefited from a reduction of an other than temporary impairment of $9.2 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, partially offset by a reduction of a related put option of $7.7 million. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense from Continuing Operations Fiscal 2010 interest expense was $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million, compared to interest income of $8.2 million, offset by interest expense of $6.6 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest income was primarily the result of a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due primarily to imputed interest expense related to certain store lease transactions and higher fees associated with the unsecured amended credit agreement. The effective tax rate from continuing operations for Fiscal 2010 was 34.3% compared to 33.9% for Fiscal 2009, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $78.7 million for Fiscal 2009. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. 45 Table of Contents Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2010 was $150.3 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 was $1.67 compared to $0.00 for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share associated with 26 stores and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2009 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.23 per diluted share associated with 99 stores and a loss per diluted share from discontinued operations, net of tax, of approximately $0.89. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Sources and Uses of Cash Seasonality of Cash Flows The retail business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (Spring) and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (Fall). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back to School and Holiday sales periods, particularly in the U.S. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a credit facility and the term loan agreement available as sources of additional funding. Credit Agreements On July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) under which up to $350 million will be available. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement serves to amend and restate, in its entirety, the credit agreement dated April 15, 2008 as previously amended (the Prior Credit Agreement). The primary reasons for entering into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement were to extend the termination date from April 12, 2013 to July 27, 2016 and to reduce fees and interest rates. As of March 16, 2012, the Company had approximately $350 million available under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement on January 28, 2012. The Company had $43.8 million outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement on January 29, 2011 denominated in Japanese Yen. The average interest rate was 2.4% for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has a Leverage Ratio and a Coverage Ratio. The Company was in compliance with the applicable ratio requirements and other covenants at January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is described in Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Refer to Note 21, Subsequent Event, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Stand by letters of credit outstanding on January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were immaterial. 46 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $365.2 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 compared to $391.8 million for fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by timing in tax payments, partially offset by an increase in net income adjusted for non cash items. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were used primarily for capital expenditures related to new store construction and information technology investments, as well as the acquisition of intangible assets. Cash outflows for capital expenditures were higher in Fiscal 2011 than in Fiscal 2010, due to an increase in the number of new international retail locations, including flashship locations, as well as Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology infrastructure projects. Cash inflows from investing activities were less in Fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the repurchase of A&Fs Common Stock, the payment of dividends and repayments of outstanding borrowings denominated in Japanese Yen under the Companys Prior Credit Agreement. These outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from the receipt of proceeds associated with the exercise of share based compensation awards. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of approximately $196.6 million. During the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of $76.2 million. Both the Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to the A&F Board of Directors authorization. As of January 28, 2012, A&F had approximately 6.2 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the November 20, 2007 A&F Board of Directors authorization to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock. Future Cash Requirements and Sources of Cash Over the next twelve months, the Companys primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, rent, taxes and other operating activities, as well as increasing capital expenditures and paying of quarterly dividend payments to stockholders subject to the A&F Board of Directors approval. The Company also has availability under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as a source of additional funding. In addition, on February 24, 2012, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Subject to suitable market conditions, A&F expects to continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock. The Company anticipates funding these cash requirements with available cash and as appropriate, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement. The Company is not dependent on foreign cash to fund its U.S. operations or dividends to shareholders and does not expect the need to repatriate foreign cash to meet cash needs. 47 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 28, 2012, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations Payments due by period (thousands) Operating Activities: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Operating Lease Obligations $ 3,053,632 $ 389,540 $ 745,994 $ 651,015 $ 1,267,083 Purchase Obligations 208,917 208,917 Other Obligations 44,853 15,271 18,918 2,706 7,958 Interest Related to Total Debt Totals $ 3,307,402 $ 613,728 $ 764,912 $ 653,721 $ 1,275,041 Financing Activities: Total Debt 20,917 924 2,099 2,527 15,367 Dividends Totals $ 20,917 $ 924 $ 2,099 $ 2,527 $ 15,367 Obligations for Operating Activities Operating lease obligations consist primarily of future minimum lease commitments related to store operating leases. See Note 11, Leased Facilities, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion. Operating lease obligations do not include common area maintenance (CAM), insurance, marketing or tax payments for which the Company is also obligated. Total expense related to CAM, insurance, marketing and taxes was $158.8 million in Fiscal 2011. The purchase obligations category represents purchase orders for merchandise to be delivered during Fiscal 2012 and commitments for fabric expected to be used during upcoming seasons. Other obligations consist primarily of lease termination obligations related to the closure of stores, asset retirement obligations, agreements to purchase intellectual property and information technology contracts for Fiscal 2011. See Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion of the letters of credit and construction debt. Due to uncertainty as to the amounts and timing of future payments, the contractual obligations table above does not include tax (including accrued interest and penalties) of $19.5 million related to unrecognized tax benefits at January 28, 2012. Deferred taxes are also not included in the preceding table. For further discussion, see Note 14, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The table above does not include estimated future retirement payments under the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the SERP) for the Companys Chief Executive Officer with a present value of $14.6 million at January 28, 2012. See Note 18, Retirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the description of the SERP to be 48 Table of Contents included in the text under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION in A&Fs definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012, incorporated by reference in ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Obligations for Financing Activities Total debt reflects amounts related to landlord financing obligations for certain leases where the Company is deemed the owner of the construction project for accounting purposes, as substantially all of the risk of ownership during construction of a leased property is held by the Company. The landlord financing obligation is amortized over the life of the related lease. A&F has historically paid quarterly dividends on its Common Stock. There are no amounts included in the above table related to dividends due to the fact that dividends are subject to determination and approval by A&Fs Board of Directors. 49 Table of Contents Year To Date Store Count and Gross Square Feet Store count and gross square footage by brand for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, were as follows: Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 New Closed (36 ) (27 ) (8 ) (71 ) January 28, 2012 280 154 494 18 946 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,514 727 3,373 176 6,790 International Stores January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 New 5 1 39 2 47 Closed January 28, 2012 14 5 77 3 99 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 264 59 642 23 988 Total Stores 294 159 571 21 1,045 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,778 786 4,015 199 7,778 Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 30, 2010 340 205 507 16 1,068 New 4 2 5 1 12 Remodels/Conversions (net activity) (1 ) 1 1 1 Closed (27 ) (27 ) (10 ) (64 ) January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,813 845 3,424 176 7,258 International Stores January 30, 2010 6 4 18 28 New 3 20 1 24 Closed January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 142 34 315 7 498 Total Stores 325 185 540 19 1,069 Total Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,955 879 3,739 183 7,756 50 Table of Contents CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $318.6 million, $160.9 million and $175.5 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. A summary of capital expenditures is as follows: Capital Expenditures (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 New Store Construction, Store Refreshes and Remodels $ 258.0 $ 118.0 $ 137.0 Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology 60.6 42.9 38.5 Total Capital Expenditures $ 318.6 $ 160.9 $ 175.5 During Fiscal 2012, based on new store opening plans and other capital expenditure plans, the Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $400 million. CLOSURE OF RUEHL BRANDED STORES AND RELATED DIRECT TO CONSUMER OPERATIONS On June 16, 2009, A&Fs Board of Directors approved the closure of the Companys 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recorded when the liability is incurred. During Fiscal 2011, the Company made gross cash payments totaling approximately $15.9 million, related primarily to the final lease termination agreements associated with the closure of RUEHL branded stores. Fifty Two Weeks EndedJanuary 28, 2012 Beginning Balance $ 17.2 Interest Accretion / Other, Net (1.3 ) Cash Payments (15.9 ) Ending Balance $ Recent Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Codification 820 10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, (ASC 820 10) was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfer; and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 31, 2010. The disclosure guidance adopted on January 31, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, ASC 820 10 was further amended to clarify certain disclosure requirements and improve consistency with international reporting standards. This amendment is to be applied prospectively and is effective for the Company beginning January 28, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, was amended in June 2011 to require entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive 51 Table of Contents income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendment does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income under current GAAP. This guidance is effective for the Companys fiscal year and interim periods beginning January 29, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Since actual results may differ from those estimates, the Company revises its estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available. The Company believes the following policies are the most critical to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results of operations. Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes retail sales at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. The Company reserves for sales returns through estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The value of point of sale coupons that result in a reduction of the price paid by the customer is recorded as a reduction of sales. The Company recognized direct to consumer sales based on an estimated date for customer receipt of merchandise. The Company reserves for direct to consumer sales not received by the customer based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The Company sells gift cards in its stores and through direct to consumer operations. The Company accounts for gift cards sold to customers by recognizing a liability at the time of sale. The liability remains on the Companys books until the earlier of redemption (recognized as revenue) or when the Company determines the likelihood of redemption is remote, known as breakage (recognized as other operating income), based on historical redemption patterns. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the sales return reserve and revenue recognition for gift cards over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to measure the sales return reserve or to measure the timing and amount of future gift card redemptions as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the sales return reserve as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the direct to consumer reserve for merchandise not received by the customer as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the assumption of the breakage for gift cards as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. 52 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Auction Rate Securities (ARS) As a result of the market failure and lack of liquidity in the current ARS market, the Company measures the fair value of its ARS primarily using a discounted cash flow model, as well as a comparison to similar securities in the market. Certain significant inputs into the model are unobservable in the market including the periodic coupon rate adjusted for the marketability discount, market required rate of return and expected term. While the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS securities, the Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Assuming all other assumptions disclosed in Note 7, Fair Value, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, being equal, a 50 basis point increase in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% increase in impairment and a 50 basis point decrease in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% decrease in impairment. 53 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Inventory Valuation Inventories are principally valued at the lower of average cost or market utilizing the retail method. The Company reduces inventory value by recording a valuation reserve that represents estimated future permanent markdowns necessary to sell through the inventory. The valuation reserve can fluctuate depending on the timing of markdowns previously recognized. Additionally, as part of inventory valuation, an inventory shrink estimate is made each period that reduces the value of inventory for lost or stolen items. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the shrink reserve or the valuation reserve over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the shrink reserve or valuation reserve as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the resulting gross margin(s). An increase or decrease in the valuation reserve of 10% would have affected pre tax income by approximately $7.2 million for Fiscal 2011. An increase or decrease in the inventory shrink accrual of 10% would have been immaterial to pre tax income for Fiscal 2011. 54 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Property and Equipment Long lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net asset group balances through future cash flows is in question. In addition, the Company conducts an annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. For the purposes of the annual review, the Company reviews long lived assets associated with stores that have an operating loss in the current year and have been open for at least two full years. The Companys impairment calculation requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to factors used in the evaluation for impairment, including, but not limited to, managements expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in our undiscounted future cash flow model include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine impairment loss over the past three fiscal years. During Fiscal 2011, 107 stores were tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011 as part of our annual review of all stores. Of the 107 stores tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011, 79 failed step one and were impaired. Of the 28 stores not impaired, 18 stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $10.6 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were 150% or more of this net asset group value. Ten stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $32.3 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were in the range of 105% to 150% of this net asset group value. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the assumptions underlying its impairment calculations as of January 28, 2012. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys determination of whether or not there has been an impairment. A 10% decrease in the sales assumption would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $38.0 million for Fiscal 2011. A decrease in the gross margin assumption of 10% would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $39.3 million for Fiscal 2011. 55 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach. Tax laws often require items to be included in tax filings at different times than the items are being reflected in the financial statements. A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on undistributed profits of non U.S. subsidiaries that the Company has determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with this hypothetical calculation. The Company does not expect material changes in the judgments, assumptions or interpretations used to calculate the tax provision for Fiscal 2011. However, changes in these assumptions may occur and should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys income tax provision. If the Companys intention or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. Equity Compensation Expense The Companys equity compensation expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants, which requires the Company to estimate the expected term of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants and expected future stock price volatility over the expected term. During Fiscal 2011, the Company granted stock appreciation rights covering an aggregate of 2,252,895 shares and no stock options. A 10% increase in the expected term would have yielded a 4% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year, while a 10% increase in stock price volatility would have yielded a 9% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year. 56 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Effective February 2, 2003, the Company established a Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide additional retirement income to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Subject to service requirements, the CEO will receive a monthly benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation (as defined in the SERP) for life. The final average compensation used for the calculation is based on actual compensation (base salary and actual annual cash incentive compensation) averaged over the last 36 consecutive full calendar months ending before the CEOs retirement. The Companys accrual for the SERP requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to the CEOs final average compensation, life expectancy and discount rate. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the accrual for the SERP as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% increase in final average compensation as of January 28, 2012 would increase the SERP accrual by approximately $1.5 million. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate as of January 28, 2012 would decrease the SERP accrual by an immaterial amount. Legal Contingencies The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversarial proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Actual liabilities may exceed or be less than the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 57 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Investment Securities The Company maintains its cash equivalents in financial instruments, primarily money market funds and United States treasury bills, with original maturities of three months or less. The Company also holds investments in investment grade auction rate securities (ARS) that have maturities ranging from 16 to 31 years. The par and carrying values, and related cumulative other than temporary impairment charges for the Companys available for sale marketable securities as of January 28, 2012 were as follows: ParValue Other than TemporaryImpairment CarryingValue (in thousands) Available for sale securities: Auction rate securities student loan backed $ 92,975 $ (8,325 ) $ 84,650 Auction rate securities municipal authority bonds 19,975 (5,117 ) 14,858 Total available for sale securities $ 112,950 $ (13,442 ) $ 99,508 As of January 28, 2012, approximately 46% of the Companys ARS were AAA rated, approximately 16% of the Companys ARS were AA rated, and approximately 38% of the Companys ARS were A rated, in each case as rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. The ratings take into account insurance policies guaranteeing both the principal and accrued interest. Each investment in student loans is insured by (1) the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, (2) a private insurer or (3) a combination of both. The percentage of insurance coverage of the outstanding principal and interest of the ARS varies by security. The credit ratings may change over time and would be an indicator of the default risk associated with the ARS and could have a material effect on the value of the ARS. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS, resulting in recognition of an other than temporary impairment of $13.4 million recognized in other expense. The irrevocable rabbi trust (the Rabbi Trust) is intended to be used as a source of funds to match respective funding obligations to participants in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I, the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II and the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. As of January 28, 2012, total assets held in the Rabbi Trust were $85.1 million and related to trust owned life insurance policies with a cash surrender value of $85.1 million and an immaterial amount of assets held in money market funds. The trust owned life insurance policies are recorded at cash surrender value, in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are restricted as to their use as noted above. Net realized and unrealized gains or losses related to the municipal notes and bonds held in the Rabbi Trust were not material for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. The change in cash surrender value of the trust owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust resulted in realized gains of $2.5 million and $2.3 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. Interest Rate Risks As of January 28, 2012, the Company had no long term debt outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. 58 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Rate Risk A&Fs international subsidiaries generally operate with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of, the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies affects the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as international expansion increases. A&F and its subsidiaries have exposure to changes in currency exchange rates associated with foreign currency transactions and forecasted foreign currency transactions, including the sale of inventory between subsidiaries and foreign denominated assets and liabilities. Such transactions are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen and Swiss Francs. The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to partially offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency transactions and forecasted transactions. Under this program, increases or decreases in foreign currency exposures are partially offset by gains or losses on forward contracts, to mitigate the impact of foreign currency gains or losses. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are recorded at fair value at the end of each fiscal period. 59 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. COMPETITION. The sale of apparel, accessories and personal care products through stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional and national department stores. As the Company continues expanding internationally, it also faces competition in local markets from established chains, as well as local specialty stores. Brand recognition, fashion, price, service, store location, selection and quality are the principal competitive factors in retail store and direct to consumer sales. The competitive challenges facing the Company include anticipating and quickly responding to changing fashion trends; and maintaining the aspirational positioning of its brands. Furthermore, the Company faces additional competitive challenges as many retailers continue promotional activities regardless of economic conditions, particularly in the U.S. In response to these conditions, the Company has engaged in promotional activity in the U.S. while continuing to focus on preserving the value of its brands. ASSOCIATE RELATIONS. As of March 16, 2012, the Company employed approximately 90,000 associates. Approximately 80,000 of the Companys associates were part time associates. On average, the Company employed approximately 27,000 full time equivalents during Fiscal 2011 which included approximately 17,000 full time equivalents comprised of part time associates, including temporary associates hired during peak periods, such as the Back to School and Holiday seasons. The Company believes it maintains a good relationship with its associates. However, in the normal course of business, the Company is party to lawsuits involving former and current associates. Please see the discussion in ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. Compliance with domestic and international regulations related to environmental matters has not had, nor is it expected to have, any material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or the Companys competitive position based on information and circumstances known to us at this time. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS. On June 16, 2009, A&Fs Board of Directors approved the closure of the Companys 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. 5 Table of Contents Accordingly, the results of operations of RUEHL are reflected in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for all periods presented. Results from discontinued operations were immaterial for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS. We caution that any forward looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or made by us, our management or our spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, expect, anticipate, intend and similar expressions may identify forward looking statements. Except as may be required by applicable law, we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward looking statements. The following factors could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward looking statements: changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; if we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, and manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand, our sales levels and profitability may decline; fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; equity based compensation awarded under the employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our cash flows, financial position or results of operations and could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding Common Stock; our growth strategy relies significantly on international expansion, which adds complexity to our operations and may strain our resources and adversely impact current store performance; our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations; our direct to consumer sales are subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales; we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs related to store closures; our development of a new brand concept such as Gilly Hicks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; comparable store sales may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our Common Stock; our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; 7 Table of Contents our stock price may be volatile and investors may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid to acquire the shares; our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls in which most of our stores are located; our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in Back to School and Holiday shopping patterns; our inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results; our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs; we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all our merchandise; our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and two third party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers; our reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and direct to consumer customers could result in disruptions to our business; we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues; modifications and or upgrades to our information technology systems may disrupt our operations; our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self insured exposures might increase our expenses and adversely impact our financial results; operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges; 8 Table of Contents we are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; our unsecured Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) and our Term Loan Agreement include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations; our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions; and compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. The following sets forth a description of the preceding risk factors that we believe may be relevant to an understanding of our business. These risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of our forward looking statements. Changes in economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. Our business depends on consumer demand for our merchandise. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. Our performance is subject to factors that affect worldwide economic conditions including unemployment, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on declines in the financial, residential real estate and mortgage markets, sales tax rates and rate increases, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence in future economic and political conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well being and security, the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies and other macroeconomic factors. During Fiscal 2008 and Fiscal 2009, the combination of these factors caused consumer spending in the U.S. to deteriorate significantly. While consumer spending began to improve in Fiscal 2010 and continued to improve in Fiscal 2011, these factors may cause levels of spending to remain depressed relative to historical levels for the foreseeable future. In addition, these factors may cause consumers to purchase products from lower priced competitors or to defer purchases of apparel and personal care products altogether. In addition, we have significantly expanded our presence in the European market. The ongoing Euro financial crisis may impact consumer demand for our merchandise. The economic conditions and factors described above could adversely affect the productivity of our stores, as well as adversely affect the pace of opening new international stores, or their productivity once opened. Economic uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and capital resources if reduced consumer demand for our merchandise should occur. It could also impact our ability to fund growth and or result in our becoming reliant on external financing, the availability of which may be uncertain. 9 Table of Contents In addition, the economic environment may exacerbate some of the risks noted below, including consumer demand, strain on available resources, international growth strategy, store growth, interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and manufacturers, and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The risks could be exacerbated individually, or collectively. If we are unable to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, and manage our inventory commensurate with customer demand, our sales levels and profitability may decline. Our success largely depends on our ability to anticipate and gauge the fashion preferences of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies constantly shifting demands in a timely manner. Our merchandise must appeal to our consumers, whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are also subject to rapid change. We must translate market trends into appropriate, saleable merchandise far in advance of its sale in our stores or through our websites. Because we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand, pricing shifts, and the sub optimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will continue to anticipate consumer demands successfully in the future. To the extent we fail to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends, our sales will be adversely affected. Inventory levels for certain merchandise styles no longer considered to be on trend may increase, leading to higher markdowns to sell through excess inventory or increases in inventory valuation reserves. A distressed economic and retail environment, in which many of our competitors continue to engage in aggressive promotional activities, particularly in the U.S., increases the importance of reacting appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our merchandise, or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost sales. Any of these events could significantly harm our operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs. Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods, or our ability to meet customer demand. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. In addition, the cost of labor at many of our third party manufacturers has been increasing significantly, and as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, it is unlikely such cost pressure will abate. The cost of transportation has been increasing as well and, if the price of oil continues to increase, and there continues to be significant unrest in the Middle East, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. We may not be able to pass all or a portion of higher raw materials prices or labor or transportation costs on to our customers, which could adversely affect our gross margin and results of our operations. 10 Table of Contents Equity based compensation awarded under the employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact our cash flows, financial position or results of operations and could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding Common Stock. Under the Employment Agreement entered into as of December 19, 2008, between A&F and Michael S. Jeffries, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (the Employment Agreement), Mr. Jeffries received grants (the Retention Grants) of stock appreciation rights. In addition to the Retention Grants, Mr. Jeffries is eligible to receive two equity based grants during each fiscal year of the term of the Employment Agreement starting with Fiscal 2009 (each, a Semi Annual Grant). The value of a Semi Annual Grant is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of our Common Stock and our financial performance. To date, Mr. Jeffries has received Semi Annual Grants, in the aggregate, of 3,752,259 stock appreciation rights. In connection with the Semi Annual Grants contemplated by the Employment Agreement, the related compensation expense could significantly impact our results of operations. In addition, the significant number of shares of Common Stock which could be issued to settle the Retention Grants and the Semi Annual Grants is uncertain and dependent on the future market price of our Common Stock and our financial performance and would, if issued, have a dilutive effect with respect to our outstanding shares of Common Stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In the event that there are not sufficient shares of Common Stock available to be issued under our Amended and Restated 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan (the 2007 LTIP), or under a successor or replacement plan at the time these equity based awards are ultimately settled, we will be required to settle some portion of the awards in cash, which could have an adverse impact on our cash flow from operations, financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, the awards may not be deductible pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). In addition, under applicable accounting rules, if our stock price increases to a point where, as of any measurement date, we would be unable to settle outstanding equity based awards in shares of Common Stock from our existing plans, we will be required to classify and account for all or a portion of the equity based awards as liabilities. This could further adversely impact our results of operations. Our growth strategy relies significantly on international expansion, which adds complexity to our operations and may strain our resources and adversely impact current store performance. Our growth strategy largely depends on the opening of new international stores. This international expansion has placed, and will continue to place, increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources at all levels of the Company. These increased demands may cause us to operate our business less efficiently, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of our existing stores or could adversely affect our inventory levels. Furthermore, our ability to conduct business in international markets may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our international expansion strategy and success could also be adversely impacted by the global economy. Failure to properly implement our growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or could otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve our objectives. In addition, as we continue to expand our overseas operations, we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We must use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure our employees comply with these laws. If any of our overseas operations, or our employees or agents, violate such laws, we could become subject to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our international expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets or could adversely affect the profitability of our international operations. As we expand internationally, we may incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and distribution centers, as well as hiring experienced management. We may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully, or we may face operational issues that delay our intended pace of international store openings, and, in any such case, our growth may be limited, unless we can: identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; address the different operational characteristics present in each country to which we expand, including employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate, lease provisions and local reporting or legal requirements; negotiate acceptable lease terms, in some cases in locations in which the relative rights and obligations of landlords and tenants differ significantly from the customs and practices in the United States; hire, train and retain competent store personnel; gain and retain acceptance from foreign customers; manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; expand infrastructure to accommodate growth; foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan; manage foreign currency exchange risks effectively; and achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores. Failure to implement our international expansion plan consistent with our internal expectations, whether as a result of one or more of the factors listed above or other factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve the objectives that we have established for ourselves. Our direct to consumer sales are subject to numerous risks that could adversely impact sales. We sell merchandise for each brand over the Internet, both domestically and internationally. Our direct to consumer operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reliance on third party computer hardware/software providers; rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; diversions of sales from our stores; liability for online content; violations of state, federal or international laws, including those relating to online privacy; 12 Table of Contents credit card fraud; the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses; telecommunication failures and electronic break ins and similar disruptions; and disruption of Internet service, whether for technical reasons or as a result of state sponsored censorship. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our direct to consumer business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs related to store closures. We may incur costs associated with store closures resulting from, among other things, lease termination agreements associated with closing stores prior to the stores lease expiration date. These costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We previously announced our intention to close underperforming domestic stores, primarily through natural lease expirations, as part of our efforts to increase domestic store productivity. Our development of a new brand concept such as Gilly Hicks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historically, we have developed and launched new brands internally that have contributed to our sales growth. Our most recent brand, Gilly Hicks, offers bras, underwear, personal care products, sleepwear and at home products for girls. The development of new brand concepts such as Gilly Hicks requires managements focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. Furthermore, a new brand concept is susceptible to risks, including lack of customer acceptance, competition from existing or new retailers, product differentiation, production and distribution inefficiencies and unanticipated operating issues. There is no assurance that a new brand concept, including Gilly Hicks, will achieve successful results. The failure of Gilly Hicks to be launched successfully, and to achieve profitability, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The costs of exiting a brand are significant. In Fiscal 2009, we incurred pre tax exit costs of $56.1 million and pre tax impairment charges of $51.5 million associated with the closure of RUEHL. In addition, the ongoing development of new concepts may place a strain on available resources. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The functional currency of our international subsidiaries is generally the local currency in which each operates, which includes British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen, Singapore Dollars, Swedish Kronor and Swiss Francs. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, we must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of the reporting period. In addition, our international subsidiaries transact in currencies other than their functional currency, including intercompany transactions, which could result in foreign currency transaction gains or losses. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could impact our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, we purchase substantially our entire inventory in U.S. dollars. As a result, our gross margin rate from international operations is subject to volatility from movements in exchange rates over time, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and profitability from the growth desired from international operations. Our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. We rely heavily on our information technology systems: to operate our websites; record and process transactions; respond to customer inquiries; manage inventory; purchase; sell and ship merchandise on a timely basis; and maintain cost efficient operations. Given the significant number of transactions that are completed annually, it is vital to maintain constant operation of our computer hardware and software systems and maintain cyber security. Despite efforts to prevent such an occurrence, our information technology systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from computer viruses, power outages, third party intrusions and other technical malfunctions. If our systems are damaged, or fail to function properly, we may have to make monetary investments to repair or replace the systems, and we could endure delays in our operations. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed. Such a loss or delay could especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during our peak selling seasons result in delays of merchandise delivery to our stores and customers, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales and profitability to decline. Comparable store sales may continue to fluctuate on a regular basis and impact the volatility of the price of our Common Stock. Our comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and the square footage of which has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20%, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that a variety of factors affect comparable store sales results including, but not limited to, fashion trends, actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants, changes in economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, weather conditions, opening and or closing of our stores in proximity to each other, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix and the calendar shifts of tax free and holiday periods. Comparable store sales fluctuations may impact our ability to leverage fixed direct expenses, including store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, comparable store sales fluctuations may have been an important factor in the volatility of the price of our Common Stock in the past, and it is likely that future comparable store sales fluctuations will contribute to stock price volatility in the future. Our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours. The sale of apparel and personal care products through stores and direct to consumer channels is a highly competitive business with numerous participants, including individual and chain fashion specialty stores, as well as regional, national and international department stores. The substantial sales growth in the 14 Table of Contents direct to consumer channel within the last few years has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and an increase in competition from established companies. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands or preferences better than our competitors; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse demographic markets; sourcing merchandise efficiently; developing innovative, high quality merchandise in styles that appeal to our consumers and in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors; and countering the aggressive promotional activities of many of our competitors without diminishing the aspirational nature of our brands and brand equity. In light of the competitive challenges we face, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Further, increases in competition could reduce our sales and harm our operating results and business. Our stock price may be volatile and investors may not be able to resell shares of our Common Stock at or above the price paid to acquire the shares. The price of our Common Stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our Common Stock has been volatile. From February 1, 2009 to January 28, 2012, the price of our Common Stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $16.95 per share to a high of $78.25 per share. We expect our Common Stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls in which most of our stores are located. In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of the malls anchor tenants, generally large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of malls in the U.S. and, increasingly, in many international locations as shopping destinations. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls in the United States or around the world; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping malls. All of these factors may impact our ability to meet our productivity targets for our domestic stores and our growth objectives for our international stores, which are primarily mall based, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions, particularly in certain regions, have affected mall traffic and resulted in the closing of certain anchor stores. The viability of certain commercial and real estate firms, which operate major shopping malls, has also been threatened. In addition, some malls that were in prominent locations when we opened stores may cease to be viewed as prominent. If this trend continues or if the popularity of mall shopping continues to decline generally among our customers, our sales may decline, which would impact our gross profits and net income. 15 Table of Contents Part of our future growth is dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. Our net sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing our results of operations to be susceptible to changes in Back to School and Holiday shopping patterns. Historically, our operations have been seasonal, with a significant amount of net sales and net income occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, due to the increased sales during the Holiday selling season and, to a lesser extent, the third fiscal quarter, reflecting increased sales during the Back to School selling season in the U.S. Our net sales and net income during the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower due, in part, to the traditional slowdown in retail sales immediately following the Holiday selling season. As a result of this seasonality, net sales and net income during any fiscal quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any factors negatively affecting us during the third and fourth fiscal quarters of any year, including inclement weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. Our inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results. We must order and keep appropriate merchandise in stock to meet demand. As a result, the inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. High inventory levels due to unanticipated decreases in demand for our products, misidentification of fashion trends, or excess inventory purchases could require us to sell merchandise at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Low levels of inventory due to conservative planning could also affect product offerings in our stores and on our websites, and negatively impact net sales and profitability. Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brands. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Public perception about our products or our stores, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. We rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our senior executive officers closely supervise all aspects of our business in particular, the design of our merchandise and the operation of our stores. Our senior executive officers have substantial 16 Table of Contents experience and expertise in the retail business and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. If we were to lose the benefit of their involvement in particular the services of any one or more of Michael S. Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Diane Chang, Executive Vice President Sourcing; Leslee K. Herro, Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation; Jonathan E. Ramsden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ronald A. Robins, Jr., Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary without adequate succession plans, our business could be adversely affected. Competition for such senior executive officers is intense, and we cannot be sure we will be able to attract, retain and develop a sufficient number of qualified senior executive officers in future periods. Interruption in the flow of merchandise from our key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt our supply chain, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. We source the majority of our merchandise outside of the U.S. through arrangements with approximately 170 vendors which includes foreign manufacturers located throughout the world, primarily in Asia and Central and South America. In addition, many of our domestic manufacturers maintain production facilities overseas. Political, social or economic instability in Asia, Central or South America, or in other regions in which our manufacturers are located, could cause disruptions in trade, including exports to the U.S. Other events that could also cause disruptions to exports to the U.S. include: the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; reliance on a limited number of shipping and air carriers who may experience capacity issues that adversely affect our ability to ship inventory in a timely manner or for an acceptable cost; the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements; economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession); fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; restrictions on the transfer of funds; the potential of manufacturer financial instability, inability to access needed liquidity or bankruptcy; significant labor disputes, such as dock strikes; significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to port security considerations; financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured; natural disasters; and regulations to address climate change. In addition, we cannot predict whether the countries in which our merchandise is manufactured, or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all our merchandise. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. As a result, the continued success of our operations is tied to our timely receipt of quality merchandise from third party manufacturers. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by foreign manufacturers. We cannot control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters, political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, and acts of terrorism, that might affect a manufacturers ability to ship orders of our merchandise in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. A manufacturers inability to ship orders in a timely manner or meet our quality standards could cause delays in responding to consumer demands and negatively affect consumer confidence in the quality and value of our brands or negatively impact our competitive position, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also susceptible to increases in sourcing costs from our manufacturers which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, while we utilize third party compliance auditors to visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturers, we do not have control of the independent manufacturers or their labor practices. As a result, the risk remains that one or more of our manufacturers will not adhere to our global compliance standards and violate labor laws or other laws, including consumer and product safety laws. Non governmental organizations might attempt to create an unfavorable impression of our sourcing practices or the practices of some of our vendors or manufacturers that could harm our image. If either of these events occur, we could lose customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition. Our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and two third party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers. Our two distribution centers located in New Albany, Ohio, manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to our North American stores and to our North American and Asian direct to consumer customers. We also use a third party distribution center in the Netherlands to manage the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores and direct to consumer customers in Europe and a third party distribution center in Hong Kong to manage receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise delivered to our stores in Asia. As a result, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as system failures, accidents, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. If our distribution operations were disrupted, our ability to replace inventory in our stores and process direct to consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. We are in the process of consolidating our two distribution centers in New Albany into one distribution center, with an expected completion date at the end of Fiscal 2012. This consolidation requires managements focus and attention, as well as significant capital investments. We believe this consolidation will result in improved operational efficiencies and that one distribution center in New Albany is adequate. However, if we are unable to operate effectively with one distribution center, our distribution operations could be disrupted. Furthermore, consolidation into one distribution center increases our susceptibility to risks associated with system failures, accidents, weather conditions, natural disasters, and other unforeseen 18 Table of Contents circumstances. If our operations are disrupted, our ability to replace inventory in our stores and process direct to consumer orders could be interrupted and sales could be negatively impacted. Our reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and direct to consumer customers could result in disruptions to our business. The efficient operation of our stores and direct to consumer business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution centers. We deliver our merchandise to our stores and direct to consumer customers using independent third parties. We utilize primarily one contract carrier to ship merchandise and related materials to our North American stores and direct to consumer customers, and a separate contract carrier for our European and Asian stores and direct to consumer customers. The independent third parties employ personnel that may be represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of any of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by a third party to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, we are susceptible to increases in fuel costs which may increase the cost of distribution. If we are not able to pass this cost on to our customers, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and loss of revenues. A significant portion of our customer orders are placed through our websites. In addition, a significant portion of sales made through our retail stores requires the collection of certain customer data, such as credit card information. In order for our sales channels to function and develop successfully, we and other parties involved in processing customer transactions must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or knowledge to breach the security of customer transaction data. Although we have security measures related to our systems and the privacy of our customers, we cannot guarantee these measures will effectively prevent others from obtaining unauthorized access to our information and our customers information. Any person who circumvents our security measures could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. A security breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our websites or stores and choose not to purchase from us. Any security breach could also expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability, and could seriously disrupt operations and harm our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, state, federal and foreign governments are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. These laws and regulations will likely increase the costs of doing business and if we fail to implement appropriate security measures, or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws and regulations, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Modifications and or upgrades to our information technology systems may disrupt our operations. We regularly evaluate our information technology systems and requirements and are currently implementing modifications and or upgrades to the information technology systems that support our business. Modifications include replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to 19 Table of Contents existing systems, or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of the inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information, system disruptions and user acceptance and understanding. We believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through disciplined adherence to methodology, program management, testing and user involvement, as well as securing appropriate commercial contracts with third party vendors supplying the replacement technologies. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver the anticipated value to us. Our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results. Our retail stores, corporate offices, distribution centers, infrastructure projects and direct to consumer operations, as well as the operations of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to damage from natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events. If any of these events result in damage to our facilities, systems or stores, or the facilities or systems of our vendors or manufacturers, we may experience interruptions in our business until the damage is repaired, resulting in the potential loss of customers and revenues. In addition, we may incur costs in repairing any damage which exceeds our applicable insurance coverage. Our business is also vulnerable to any interruption related to an outbreak of a pandemic disease in countries where we have retail locations or source our merchandise. Our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to our business, such as litigation regarding overtime compensation and other employment or wage and hour related matters. Our current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with managements evaluation of the claims. Should managements evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets. We believe our trademarks, Abercrombie & Fitch&reg;, abercrombie&reg;, Hollister&reg;, Gilly Hicks&reg; and the Moose and Seagull logos, are an essential element of our strategy. We have obtained or applied for federal registration of these trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the registries of countries where stores are located or likely to be located in the future. In addition, we own registrations and have pending applications for other trademarks in the U.S. and have applied for or obtained registrations from the registries in many foreign countries in which our stores or our manufacturers are located. There can be no assurance that we will obtain registrations that have been applied for or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If a third party copies our products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Because we have not yet registered all of our trademarks in all categories, or in all foreign countries in which we source or offer our merchandise now, or may in the future, our international expansion and our merchandising of products using these marks could be limited. For example, we cannot ensure that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of our products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. The pending applications for international registration of various trademarks could be challenged or rejected in those countries because third parties of whom we are not currently aware have already registered similar marks in those countries. Accordingly, it may be possible, in those foreign countries where the status of various applications is pending or unclear, for a third party owner of the national trademark registration for a similar mark to prohibit the manufacture, sale or exportation of branded goods in or from that country. If we are unable to reach an arrangement with any such party, our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture our products, and we may be unable to sell in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from, or manufacture in, less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan include selling our merchandise in those non U.S. jurisdictions. We have an anti counterfeiting program, under the auspices of the Abercrombie & Fitch Brand Protection Team, whose goal is to eliminate the supply of illegal pieces of our products. The Brand Protection Team interacts with investigators, customs officials and law enforcement entities throughout the world to combat the illegal use of our trademarks. Although brand security initiatives are in place, we cannot guarantee that our efforts against the counterfeiting of our brands will be successful. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and or sales, consumption or value added taxes (or VAT) in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in any given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. Fluctuations in duties could also have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In some international markets, we are required to hold and submit VAT to the appropriate local tax authorities. Failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amounts could subject us to substantial fines and penalties that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, tax legislation may be enacted in the future, domestically or abroad, that impacts our current or future tax structure and effective tax rate. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and the associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism have disrupted commerce and have intensified uncertainties in the U.S. economy. Any further acts of terrorism or a future war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending and or mall 21 Table of Contents traffic to decline. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any other unforeseen interruption of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from foreign manufacturers. Our inability to obtain merchandise from our foreign manufacturers or substitute other manufacturers, at similar costs and in a timely manner, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or our failure to adequately reserve for self insured exposures might increase our expenses and adversely impact our financial results. We believe that commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management in certain areas of our business. Insurance costs may increase substantially in the future and may be affected by natural catastrophes, fear of terrorism, financial irregularities and other fraud at publicly held companies, intervention by the government or a decrease in the number of insurance carriers. In addition, the carriers with which we hold our policies may go out of business, or may be otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. Furthermore, for certain types or levels of risk, such as risks associated with earthquakes, hurricanes or terrorist attacks, we may determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices, if at all. Therefore, we may choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self insure one or more types or levels of risk. We are primarily self insured for workers compensation and employee health benefits. If we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance or our self insurance reserves, the loss and attendant expenses could harm our business and operating results. In addition, exposures could exist for which no insurance may be available and for which we have not reserved. Operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges. Long lived assets, primarily property and equipment, are reviewed at the store level at least annually for impairment, or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that a full recovery of net asset values through future cash flows is in question. The review could result in significant charges related to underperforming stores which could impact our results of operations. Furthermore, our impairment review requires us to make estimates and projections regarding, but not limited to, future cash flows. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for our store locations and other property and equipment. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be, and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain store locations and other property and equipment. We have recognized significant impairment charges in the past and may do so in the future. We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including customs, truth in advertising, consumer protection, general privacy, health information privacy, identity theft, online privacy, unsolicited commercial communication and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and distribution centers. As our business becomes more international in scope and we enter more countries internationally, the number of laws and regulations that we are subject to, as well as their scope and reach, increase significantly and heighten our risks. If these laws and regulations were to change, or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, vendors or other parties with whom we do business, the costs of 22 Table of Contents certain merchandise could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our merchandise, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to protect personally identifiable information of our customers or associates could subject us to considerable reputational harm, as well as significant fines, penalties and sanctions both domestically and abroad. In addition, changes in federal, state and international minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability. We are also subject to U.S. securities laws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules which could subject us to enforcement actions, de listing and adverse legal sanctions for non compliance. Changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. In addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory landscape. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation including those related to health care, taxes, transportation and logistics, privacy, environmental issues, trade, product safety or employment and labor, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our unsecured Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) and our Term Loan Agreement include financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement expires on July 27, 2016, and market conditions could potentially impact the size and terms of a replacement facility. The commitment of the lenders to make loans under the Term Loan Agreement expires on February 22, 2013 and the Term Loan Agreement has a maturity date of February 23, 2017. Both our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement contain financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. If we fail to comply with the covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result, and the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we cannot guarantee that we would have sufficient liquidity at that time to repay or refinance borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and or the Term Loan Agreement. The inability to obtain credit on commercially reasonable terms, or a default under the current Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and or the Term Loan Agreement, could adversely impact our liquidity and results of operations. Our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Our operations may be affected by regulatory changes related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. We are uncertain how the U.S. and international economies will be affected by potential legislation and public reactions. As a result, the effect this could have on our operations is presently unknown. 23 Table of Contents Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. Changing regulatory requirements for corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC regulations and the Financial Accounting Standards Boards accounting standards requirements are creating additional complexities for public companies. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as say on pay and proxy access. Stockholder activism, the current political environment, financial reform legislation and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations. In addition, the expected future requirement to transition to, or converge with, international financial reporting standards is creating uncertainty and additional complexities. These changing regulatory requirements may lead to additional compliance costs, as well as the diversion of our managements time and attention from strategic business activities and could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. The Companys headquarters and support functions occupy 491 acres, consisting of the home office, distribution and shipping facilities centralized on a campus like setting in New Albany, Ohio and an additional small distribution and shipping facility located in the Columbus, Ohio area, all of which are owned by the Company. Additionally, the Company leases small facilities to house its design and sourcing support centers in Hong Kong, New York City and Los Angeles, California, as well as offices in the United Kingdom, Japan, Switzerland, Italy and China. All of the retail stores operated by the Company, as of March 16, 2012, are located in leased facilities, primarily in shopping centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The leases expire at various dates, between 2012 and 2031. The Companys home office, distribution and shipping facilities, design support centers and stores are currently suitable and adequate. As of March 16, 2012, the Companys 1,047 stores were located in North America, Europe and Asia as follows: U.S. & U.S. Territories: Alabama 6 Kentucky 9 North Dakota 1 Alaska 1 Louisiana 10 Ohio 31 Arizona 16 Maine 4 Oklahoma 7 Arkansas 7 Maryland 19 Oregon 10 California 130 Massachusetts 34 Pennsylvania 44 Colorado 10 Michigan 26 Rhode Island 3 Connecticut 20 Minnesota 16 South Carolina 10 Delaware 5 Mississippi 2 South Dakota 1 District Of Columbia 1 Missouri 14 Tennessee 21 Florida 74 Montana 2 Texas 87 Georgia 22 Nebraska 4 Utah 8 Hawaii 5 Nevada 13 Vermont 2 Idaho 3 New Hampshire 10 Virginia 23 Illinois 40 New Jersey 40 Washington 20 Indiana 21 New Mexico 3 West Virginia 5 Iowa 7 New York 54 Wisconsin 13 Kansas 5 North Carolina 26 Puerto Rico 1 International Stores: Canada 19 France 5 Sweden 2 Denmark 1 China 3 Germany 15 Belgium 3 Italy 7 Ireland 1 Japan 2 Austria 3 Spain 9 Hong Kong 1 United Kingdom 29 Singapore 1 26 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. A&F is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Moreover, the Companys assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries, administrative agencies or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with the Companys evaluation of claims. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company intends to defend the following pending matters vigorously, as appropriate. The Companys identified contingencies include the following matters: On September 16, 2005, a derivative action, styled The Booth Family Trust v. Michael S. Jeffries, et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, naming A&F as a nominal defendant and seeking to assert claims for unspecified damages against nine of A&Fs present and former directors, alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty and seeking equitable and monetary relief. In the following three months, four similar derivative actions were filed (three in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio and one in the Court of Common Pleas for Franklin County, Ohio) against present and former directors of A&F alleging various breaches of the directors fiduciary duty allegedly arising out of antecedent employment law and securities class actions brought against the Company. A consolidated amended derivative complaint was filed in the federal proceeding on July 10, 2006. On February 16, 2007, A&F announced that its Board of Directors had received a report of the Special Litigation Committee established by the Board to investigate and act with respect to claims asserted in the derivative cases, which concluded that there was no evidence to support the asserted claims and directed the Company to seek dismissal of the derivative cases. On September 10, 2007, the Company moved to dismiss the federal derivative cases on the authority of the Special Litigation Committee Report. On March 12, 2009, the Companys motion was granted and, on April 10, 2009, plaintiffs filed an appeal from the order of dismissal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. On April 5, 2011, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the decision of the District Court and remanded the action for further proceedings. On November 1, 2011, the District Court entered an order which gave preliminary approval to a proposed settlement of the consolidated derivative litigation. The District Court also set a hearing (the Fairness Hearing) for December 13, 2011 to determine whether the proposed settlement should be finally approved and to consider an award of fees and expenses to plaintiffs counsel. The District Court also directed that notice be given to the Companys stockholders concerning the proposed settlement and their right to be heard in connection with the Fairness Hearing. On December 19, 2011, the District Court, after the Fairness Hearing, entered a final order (1) approving the proposed settlement submitted to the District Court by the parties to the derivative litigation and (2) dismissing with prejudice all claims contained in the 2005 derivative cases. The District Courts order also resulted in dismissal of the state court derivative action, which had been stayed pending resolution of the federal derivative cases. On December 21, 2007, Spencer de la Cruz, a former employee, filed an action against Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc. (collectively, the Defendants) in the Superior Court of Orange County, California (the Court). He sought to allege, on behalf of himself and a putative class of past and present employees in the period beginning on December 19, 2003, claims for 27 Table of Contents failure to provide meal breaks, for waiting time penalties, for failure to keep accurate employment records, and for unfair business practices. By successive amendments, plaintiff added 10 additional plaintiffs and additional claims seeking injunctive relief, unpaid wages, penalties, interest, and attorneys fees and costs. Defendants denied the material allegations of plaintiffs complaints throughout the litigation and asserted numerous affirmative defenses. On July 23, 2010, plaintiffs moved for class certification in the action. On December 9, 2010, after briefing and argument, the Court granted in part and denied in part plaintiffs motion, certifying sub classes to pursue meal break claims, meal premium pay claims, work related travel claims, travel expense claims, termination pay claims, reporting time claims, bag check claims, pay record claims, and minimum wage claims. The parties continued to litigate questions relating to the Courts certification order and to the merits of plaintiffs claims until January 25, 2012. On that date, the named plaintiffs and the Defendants signed a memorandum of understanding which, subject to final Court approval, was intended to result in a full and final settlement of all claims in the action on a class wide basis. A formal Settlement Agreement and related papers were filed with the Court on February 21, 2012 and the Court scheduled a hearing on March 14, 2012 to determine whether to provide preliminary approval to the proposed settlement and to order that notice of the proposed settlement be given to the absent members of the settlement class. On March 14, 2012, the Court continued the hearing to April 18, 2012. As of January 28, 2012, the Company increased its litigation reserve to cover the expected cost of the proposed settlement. On October 17, 2011, Amber Echavez a former employee, filed an action against Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and two of its subsidiaries (collectively, the Defendants) in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California. She alleged the Defendants violated California labor laws by failing to provide suitable seats for her and for other current and former employees. She sought to maintain the suit as a class action on behalf of a class of retail sales employees and also as a representative action under Californias Private Attorney General Act of 2004 (PAGA). On November 23, 2011, the Defendants removed the action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California (the Court) and on February 6, 2012, moved (1) to dismiss the action for failure to state a claim and (2) to strike plaintiffs class allegations. On March 12, 2012, the Court entered an order denying Defendants motion to dismiss and granting Defendants motion to strike plaintiffs class allegations. The parties are continuing to litigate plaintiffs remaining claims. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. Set forth below is certain information regarding the executive officers of A&F as of March 16, 2012: Michael S. Jeffries, 67, has been Chairman of A&F since May 1998. Mr. Jeffries has been Chief Executive Officer of A&F since February 1992. From February 1992 to May 1998, Mr. Jeffries held the title of President of A&F. Under the terms of the Employment Agreement, entered into as of December 19, 2008, between A&F and Mr. Jeffries, A&F is obligated to cause Mr. Jeffries to be nominated as a director of A&F during his employment term. Diane Chang, 56, has been Executive Vice President Sourcing of A&F since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Chang held the position of Senior Vice President Sourcing of A&F from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Sourcing of A&F from May 1998 to February 2000. Leslee K. Herro, 51, has been Executive Vice President Planning and Allocation of A&F since May 2004. Prior thereto, Ms. Herro held the position of Senior Vice President Planning and Allocation of A&F from February 2000 to May 2004 and the position of Vice President Planning & Allocation of A&F from February 1994 to February 2000. Jonathan E. Ramsden, 47, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of A&F since December 2008. From December 1998 to December 2008, Mr. Ramsden served as Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Committee of TBWA Worldwide, a large advertising agency network and a division of Omnicom Group Inc. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer of TWBA Worldwide, he served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Omnicom Group Inc. from June 1996 to December 1998. Ronald A. Robins, Jr., 48, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of A&F since August 2010. Mr. Robins joined A&F in November 2009 as Deputy General Counsel after spending 16 years at Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease LLP, 13 years as a partner in the firms corporate and finance practice group. Mr. Robins clerked for The Honorable Milton Pollack of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York from 1989 to 1990. Before joining Vorys, Mr. Robins practiced for several years as an associate at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York City. The executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of A&F and, in the case of Mr. Jeffries, pursuant to an employment agreement. 30 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. A&Fs Class A Common Stock (the Common Stock) is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANF. The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of A&Fs Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010: Sales Price High Low Fiscal 2011 4th Quarter $ 76.33 $ 43.56 3rd Quarter $ 77.49 $ 55.70 2nd Quarter $ 78.25 $ 62.46 1st Quarter $ 72.61 $ 48.40 Fiscal 2010 4th Quarter $ 58.50 $ 41.55 3rd Quarter $ 45.75 $ 33.97 2nd Quarter $ 45.71 $ 29.94 1st Quarter $ 51.12 $ 31.31 A quarterly dividend, of $0.175 per share, was paid in each of March, June, September and December in each of Fiscal 2009, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2011. A&F expects to continue to pay a quarterly dividend, subject to the Board of Directors review of the Companys cash position and results of operations. As of March 16, 2012, there were approximately 4,300 stockholders of record. However, when including investors holding shares in broker accounts under street name, active associates of the Company who participate in A&Fs stock purchase plan, and associates of the Company who own shares through A&F sponsored retirement plans, A&F estimates that there are approximately 42,360 stockholders. The following table provides information regarding the purchase of shares of the Common Stock of A&F made by or on behalf of A&F or any affiliated purchaser as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, during each fiscal month of the quarterly period ended January 28, 2012: Period (Fiscal Month) Total Numberof SharesPurchased(1) AveragePrice Paidper Share(2) Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plans orPrograms(3) Maximum Number ofShares that May Yetbe Purchased underthe Plans orPrograms(4) October 30, 2011 through November 26, 2011 1,019,876 $ 49.15 1,017,290 7,218,968 November 27, 2011 through December 31, 2011 1,002,878 $ 47.91 1,000,000 6,218,968 January 1, 2012 through January 28, 2012 471 $ 47.40 6,218,968 Total 2,023,225 $ 48.53 2,017,290 6,218,968 (1) An aggregate of 5,935 of the shares of A&Fs Common Stock purchased during the thirteen week period ended January 28, 2012, represented shares which were withheld for tax payments due upon the 31 Table of Contents vesting of employee restricted stock unit and restricted share awards and upon the exercise of employee stock appreciation rights. All other shares of A&F Common Stock purchased during the quarterly period were purchased pursuant to A&Fs publically announced stock repurchase authorization described in footnote 3 below. (2) The average price paid per share includes broker commissions, as applicable. (3) The reported shares were purchased pursuant to A&Fs publicly announced stock repurchase authorization. On November 21, 2007, A&F announced the November 20, 2007 authorization by A&Fs Board of Directors to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock. (4) The number shown represents, as of the end of each period, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may yet be purchased under A&Fs publicly announced stock repurchase authorization described in footnote 3 above. The shares may be purchased, from time to time, depending on market conditions. During Fiscal 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a cost of approximately $196.6 million. During Fiscal 2010, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a cost of approximately $76.2 million. A&F did not repurchase any shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market during Fiscal 2009. Both the Fiscal 2011 and the Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to authorizations of A&Fs Board of Directors. 32 Table of Contents The following graph shows the changes, over the five year period ended January 28, 2012 (the last day of A&Fs Fiscal 2011) in the value of $100 invested in (i) shares of A&Fs Common Stock; (ii) the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (the S&P 500 Index) and (iii) the Standard & Poors Apparel Retail Composite Index (the S&P Apparel Retail Index), including reinvestment of dividends. The plotted points represent the closing price on the last trading day of the fiscal year indicated. PERFORMANCE GRAPH(1) COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Abercrombie & Fitch Co., the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Apparel Retail Index * $100 invested on 2/3/07 in stock or 1/31/07 in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Indexes calculated on month end basis. Copyright&copy; 2011 S&P, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. (1) This graph shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to SEC Regulation 14A or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), except to the extent that A&F specifically requests that the graph be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Thousands, except per share and per square foot amounts, ratios and store and associate data) Summary of Operations (Information below excludes amounts related to discontinued operations, except where otherwise noted) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net Sales $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 $ 3,484,058 $ 3,699,656 Gross Profit $ 2,518,870 $ 2,212,181 $ 1,883,598 $ 2,331,095 $ 2,488,166 Operating Income $ 190,030 $ 231,932 $ 117,912 $ 498,262 $ 778,909 Net Income from Continuing Operations $ 126,862 $ 150,283 $ 78,953 $ 308,169 $ 499,127 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax(1) $ 796 $ $ (78,699 ) $ (35,914 ) $ (23,430 ) Net Income(1) $ 127,658 $ 150,283 $ 254 $ 272,255 $ 475,697 Dividends Declared Per Share $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 $ 0.70 Net Income Per Share from Continuing Operations Basic $ 1.46 $ 1.71 $ 0.90 $ 3.55 $ 5.72 Diluted $ 1.42 $ 1.67 $ 0.89 $ 3.45 $ 5.45 Net Income (Loss) Per Share from Discontinued Operations(1) Basic $ 0.01 $ $ (0.90 ) $ (0.41 ) $ (0.27 ) Diluted $ 0.01 $ $ (0.89 ) $ (0.40 ) $ (0.26 ) Net Income Per Share(1) Basic $ 1.47 $ 1.71 $ 0.00 $ 3.14 $ 5.45 Diluted $ 1.43 $ 1.67 $ 0.00 $ 3.05 $ 5.20 Basic Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 86,848 88,061 87,874 86,816 87,248 Diluted Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 89,537 89,851 88,609 89,291 91,523 Other Financial Information Total Assets (including discontinued operations) $ 3,048,153 $ 2,941,415 $ 2,821,866 $ 2,848,181 $ 2,567,598 Return on Average Assets(2) 4 % 5 % 0 % 10 % 20 % Working Capital(3) $ 783,422 $ 874,417 $ 776,311 $ 622,213 $ 585,575 Current Ratio(4) $ 2.11 $ 2.56 $ 2.73 $ 2.38 $ 2.08 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities(1) $ 365,219 $ 391,789 $ 395,487 $ 491,031 $ 817,524 Capital Expenditures $ 318,598 $ 160,935 $ 175,472 $ 367,602 $ 403,345 Long Term Debt $ 57,851 $ 68,566 $ 71,213 $ 100,000 $ Stockholders Equity (including discontinued operations) $ 1,862,456 $ 1,890,784 $ 1,827,917 $ 1,845,578 $ 1,618,313 Return on Average Stockholders Equity(5) 7 % 8 % 0 % 16 % 31 % Comparable Store Sales(6) 5 % 7 % (23 )% (13 )% (1 )% Net Store Sales Per Average Gross Square Foot $ 463 $ 390 $ 339 $ 432 $ 503 Stores at End of Year and Average Associates Total Number of Stores Open 1,045 1,069 1,096 1,097 1,013 Gross Square Feet 7,778 7,756 7,848 7,760 7,133 Average Number of Associates(7) 91,000 83,000 83,000 96,200 94,600 (1) Includes results of operations from RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. Results from discontinued operations were immaterial in Fiscal 2010. (2) Return on Average Assets is computed by dividing net income (including discontinued operations) by the average asset balance (including discontinued operations). 34 Table of Contents (3) Working Capital is computed by subtracting current liabilities (including discontinued operations) from current assets (including discontinued operations). (4) Current Ratio is computed by dividing current assets (including discontinued operations) by current liabilities (including discontinued operations). (5) Return on Average Stockholders Equity is computed by dividing net income (including discontinued operations) by the average stockholders equity balance (including discontinued operations). (6) A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. (7) Includes employees from RUEHL operations. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty two week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty three week year. A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. For purposes of this ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 and the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 30, 2010. The Company had net sales of $4.158 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, an increase of 20% from $3.469 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. Operating income for Fiscal 2011 was $190.0 million, which was down from $231.9 million in Fiscal 2010. Net income from continuing operations was $126.9 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share was $1.42 in Fiscal 2011, compared to net income from continuing operations of $150.3 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share of $1.67 in Fiscal 2010. Excluding charges for impairments and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements and a change in intent regarding the Companys auction rate securities (ARS), the Company reported adjusted, non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.30 for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. Excluding store related asset impairment charges and exit charges associated with domestic store closures, the Company reported non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.05 for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. 36 Table of Contents The Company believes that the non GAAP financial measures are useful to investors as they provide the ability to measure the Companys operating performance and compare it against that of prior periods without reference to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income impact of non cash, store related asset impairment charges, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the fiscal year and a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. These non GAAP financial measures should not be used as alternatives to net income per diluted share or as indicators of the ongoing operating performance of the Company and are also not intended to supersede or replace the Companys GAAP financial measures. The table below reconciles the GAAP financial measures to the non GAAP financial measures discussed above. Fifty Two Weeks Ended January 28, 2012 January 29, 2011 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis $ 1.42 $ 1.67 Plus: Asset impairment charges(1) 0.49 0.34 Plus: Asset write downs(2) 0.10 Plus: Store closure and lease exit charges(3) 0.13 0.03 Plus: Legal charges(4) 0.07 Plus: ARS charges(5) 0.09 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a non GAAP basis $ 2.30 $ 2.05 Plus: Net income from discontinued operations 0.01 Net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis $ 2.31 $ 2.05 (1) The store related asset impairment charges relate to stores whose asset carrying value exceeded their fair value. For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was associated with 14 Abercrombie & Fitch, 21 abercrombie kids, 42 Hollister and two Gilly Hicks stores. For the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011, the charge was associated with two Abercrombie & Fitch, two abercrombie kids, nine Hollister and 13 Gilly Hicks stores. (2) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the asset write downs was related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project. (3) For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the charges for store closures and lease exits were associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. (4) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was related to legal settlements during the fourth quarter. (5) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the ARS was related to a change in intent with regard to the Companys auction rate securities portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment. Net cash provided by operating activities, the Companys primary source of liquidity, was $365.2 million for Fiscal 2011. This source of cash was primarily driven by results from operations, adjusted for non cash items, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses partially offset by increases in inventory. The Company used $318.6 million of cash for capital expenditures. The Company 37 Table of Contents also repurchased $196.6 million of Common Stock, paid dividends totaling $61.0 million, repaid borrowings under the credit agreement of $45.0 million and received $46.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options during Fiscal 2011. As of January 28, 2012, the Company had $583.5 million in cash and equivalents, no outstanding debt aside from that related to landlord financing obligations, and immaterial stand by letters of credit. The following data represents the amounts shown in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2011 2010 2009 NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 39.4 36.2 35.7 GROSS PROFIT 60.6 63.8 64.3 Stores and Distribution Expense 45.4 45.8 48.7 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 10.5 11.6 12.1 Other Operating Expense (Income), Net 0.1 (0.3 ) (0.5 ) OPERATING INCOME 4.6 6.7 4.0 Interest Expense (Income), Net 0.1 0.1 (0.1 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES 4.5 6.6 4.1 Tax Expense from Continuing Operations 1.4 2.3 1.4 NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 3.1 4.3 2.7 INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, Net of Taxes 0.0 (2.7 ) NET INCOME 3.1 % 4.3 % 0.0 % 38 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and statistical data compares Fiscal 2011 to Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2009, and Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008: 2011 2010 2009 Net sales by segment (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 U.S. Stores $ 2,710,842 $ 2,546,798 $ 2,377,771 International Stores $ 876,613 $ 505,136 $ 256,216 Direct to consumer $ 552,603 $ 404,974 $ 290,102 Other $ 18,000 $ 11,869 $ 4,537 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% U.S. Stores 6 % 7 % (21 )% International Stores 74 % 97 % 70 % Direct to consumer 36 % 40 % (8 )% Other 52 % 162 % 15 % Net sales by brand (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 Abercrombie & Fitch $ 1,665,135 $ 1,493,101 $ 1,272,287 abercrombie $ 397,904 $ 382,579 $ 343,164 Hollister $ 2,022,002 $ 1,552,814 $ 1,287,241 Gilly Hicks** $ 73,017 $ 40,283 $ 25,934 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 12 % 17 % (17 )% abercrombie 4 % 11 % (18 )% Hollister 30 % 21 % (15 )% Gilly Hicks 81 % 55 % 45 % Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales* 5 % 7 % (23 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 3 % 9 % (19 )% abercrombie 4 % 5 % (23 )% Hollister 8 % 6 % (27 )% * A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand 12 months or more and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. ** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 reflect the activity of 21, 19 and 16 stores, respectively. CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Our results for Fiscal 2011 were below our expectations in a very challenging environment. During Fiscal 2011, we saw all time high cotton costs, resulting in higher average unit costs. In addition, we were not able to offset the increases in the costs with increased average unit retail prices due to a highly aggressive promotional environment in the U.S. We expect to see a significant reversal in the average unit cost trend in Fiscal 2012, especially in the second half of the year; however, we remain cautious about our ability to raise average unit retail prices in the U.S. We expect significant margin improvement in Fiscal 2012 due primarily to a combination of average unit cost reductions and the expected performance of our 39 Table of Contents new international stores and our direct to consumer business. We will continue to take a long term approach, and will not sacrifice quality to achieve cost reductions. We are confident that we are on track in regard to our long term strategy of leveraging the international appeal of our brands to build a highly profitable, sustainable, global business. There are five key elements to this strategy. First, continuing to provide high quality, trend right merchandise and a compelling and differentiated store experience. Second, continuing to close underperforming U.S. chain stores. During Fiscal 2011, we closed 68 U.S. chain stores, predominately at the end of the year through natural lease expirations, bringing the total stores closed over the last two years to 135 stores. Third, advancing our direct to consumer business, which should benefit from multiple investments we are making in the business and from our growing international presence. Fourth, continuing to focus on our highly profitable international real estate plan. During Fiscal 2011, we opened five new A&F flagship stores and 39 international Hollister stores. In Fiscal 2012, we expect to open A&F flagship or Tier 1 stores in Hamburg, Hong Kong, Munich, Amsterdam and Dublin, and we expect to open close to 40 Hollister international stores. Finally, maintaining tight control over expenses and seeking greater efficiencies, for example, through consolidation of our two domestic distribution centers. The consolidation is expected to be completed by the end of Fiscal 2012 and is expected to facilitate the sale or lease of the second distribution center and result in reduced operating costs. Based on these factors, we anticipate strong EPS growth in Fiscal 2012, notwithstanding an approximately flat same store sales assumption. Longer term, our objective remains to deliver consistent and sustainable growth in sales and EPS. We believe trend rates of close to 15% in sales and somewhat above that in EPS are realistic goals. The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; U.S. and International store performance; Store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; 40 Table of Contents Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2011 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2010 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2011 were $4.158 billion, an increase of 20% from Fiscal 2010 net sales of $3.469 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to new stores, primarily international, a 5% increase in comparable store sales, and a 36% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. The impact of foreign currency on sales (based on converting prior year sales at current year exchange rates) for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 was a benefit of $21.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $2.711 billion, an increase of 6% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $2.547 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $876.6 million, an increase of 74% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $505.1 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2011, including shipping and handling revenue, were $552.6 million, an increase of 36% from Fiscal 2010 direct to consumer sales of $405.0 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 13.3% of total net sales in Fiscal 2011 compared to 11.7% in Fiscal 2010. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2011 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 3%, with mens and womens increasing by a low single digit percent. abercrombie kids increased 4%, with guys increasing by a high single digit and girls increasing by a low single digit. Hollister increased 8%, with dudes and bettys increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, the Southern and the Western regions of the U.S. were the strongest performing regions, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. From a merchandise classification standpoint, fleece, active wear, and knit tops were stronger performing categories for the male business while graphics and woven shirts were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, sweaters, and knit tops were stronger performing categories, while graphics and dresses were weaker performing categories. 41 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2011 was $2.519 billion compared to $2.212 billion during Fiscal 2010. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 60.6%, down 320 basis points from the Fiscal 2010 rate of 63.8%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in average unit cost combined with higher markdowns. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2011 was $1.888 billion compared to $1.590 billion in Fiscal 2010. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 45.4% compared to 45.8% in Fiscal 2010. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 included store related asset impairment charges of $68.0 million associated with 79 stores, asset write down charges of $14.6 million related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project, and store exit charges of $19.0 million, associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. For the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $53.6 million and $38.9 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $62.8 million and $42.8 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2011 was $437.1 million compared to $400.8 million in Fiscal 2010. For Fiscal 2011, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.5%, compared to 11.6% for Fiscal 2010. Marketing, general and administrative expense for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 included $10.0 million in charges in connection with fourth quarter legal settlements. In addition to legal settlement charges, the increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2011 was primarily due to increases in compensation, including equity compensation, outside services, marketing, travel and IT expenses. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense, net was $3.5 million compared to other operating income, net of $10.1 million for Fiscal 2010. Other operating expense, net for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 42 Table of Contents included $13.4 million of expense related to a change in the Companys intent regarding the sale of its ARS portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment in Fiscal 2011. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense Fiscal 2011 interest expense was $7.9 million, offset by interest income of $4.3 million, compared to interest expense of $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million for Fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 was 32.0% compared to 34.3% for Fiscal 2010, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. As of January 28, 2012, there were approximately $25.6 million of net deferred tax assets in Japan with a valuation allowance of $2.4 million. The valuation allowance in Japan was established as the result of changes to the business configuration of operations in Japan, as well as tax law changes. The realization of the net deferred tax assets not subject to a valuation allowance is dependent upon the future generation of sufficient profits in Japan. While the Company believes it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized, it is not certain. Should circumstances change, some or all of the net deferred tax assets not currently subject to a valuation allowance may be in the future. Any increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional tax expense. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for all years presented. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2011 was $127.7 million compared to $150.3 million for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 was $1.43 compared to $1.67 for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.49 per diluted share, asset write down charges of approximately $0.10 per diluted share, store closure and exit charges of approximately $0.13 per diluted share, legal charges of approximately $0.07 per diluted share, and other than temporary impairment charges of approximately $0.09 per diluted share related to a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS portfolio. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share. Refer to the GAAP reconciliation table in the OVERVIEW section of ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for a reconciliation of net income per diluted share on a GAAP basis to net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis, excluding charges for impairment and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the quarter and with a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. 43 Table of Contents FISCAL 2010 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2009 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2010 were $3.469 billion, an increase of 18% from Fiscal 2009 net sales of $2.929 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, a 40% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, and new stores, primarily international. The impact of foreign currency on sales for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 was less than 1% of net sales. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $2.547 billion, an increase of 7% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $2.378 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $505.1 million, an increase of 97% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $256.2 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2010, including shipping and handling revenue, were $405.0 million, an increase of 40% from Fiscal 2009 direct to consumer sales of $290.1 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.7% of total net sales in Fiscal 2010 compared to 9.9% in Fiscal 2009. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2010 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 9%, with womens increasing by a high single digit percent and mens increasing by a low double digit. abercrombie kids increased 5%, with girls and guys each increasing by a mid single digit. Hollister increased 6%, with bettys increasing by a mid single digit and dudes increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, Europe was the strongest performing region, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. For Fiscal 2010, from a comparable store sales perspective across all brands, the masculine categories out paced the feminine categories. From a merchandise classification standpoint, woven shirts, fleece, and outerwear were stronger performing categories for the male business while jeans and graphics were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, dresses, and fleece were stronger performing categories, while knit tops and jeans were weaker performing categories. Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2010 was $2.212 billion compared to $1.884 billion during Fiscal 2009. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was 63.8%, down 50 basis points from the Fiscal 2009 rate of 64.3%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by a 9% decrease in average unit retail, which was partially offset by a reduction in average unit cost. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2010 was $1.590 billion compared to $1.426 billion in Fiscal 2009. The stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was 45.8% compared to 48.7% in Fiscal 2009. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. For the fifty two weeks ended January 30, 2010, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 99 stores of $33.2 million. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy and payroll costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $38.9 million and $30.7 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $42.8 million and $34.1 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2010 was $400.8 million compared to $353.3 million in Fiscal 2009. For Fiscal 2010, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.6%, compared to 12.1% for Fiscal 2009. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits, including incentive and equity compensation, and net legal expense. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income, net for Fiscal 2010 was $10.1 million compared to $13.5 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower net gains from foreign currency denominated transactions compared to Fiscal 2009. In Fiscal 2009, other operating income also benefited from a reduction of an other than temporary impairment of $9.2 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, partially offset by a reduction of a related put option of $7.7 million. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense from Continuing Operations Fiscal 2010 interest expense was $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million, compared to interest income of $8.2 million, offset by interest expense of $6.6 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest income was primarily the result of a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due primarily to imputed interest expense related to certain store lease transactions and higher fees associated with the unsecured amended credit agreement. The effective tax rate from continuing operations for Fiscal 2010 was 34.3% compared to 33.9% for Fiscal 2009, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $78.7 million for Fiscal 2009. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. 45 Table of Contents Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2010 was $150.3 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 was $1.67 compared to $0.00 for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share associated with 26 stores and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2009 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.23 per diluted share associated with 99 stores and a loss per diluted share from discontinued operations, net of tax, of approximately $0.89. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Sources and Uses of Cash Seasonality of Cash Flows The retail business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (Spring) and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (Fall). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back to School and Holiday sales periods, particularly in the U.S. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a credit facility and the term loan agreement available as sources of additional funding. Credit Agreements On July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) under which up to $350 million will be available. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement serves to amend and restate, in its entirety, the credit agreement dated April 15, 2008 as previously amended (the Prior Credit Agreement). The primary reasons for entering into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement were to extend the termination date from April 12, 2013 to July 27, 2016 and to reduce fees and interest rates. As of March 16, 2012, the Company had approximately $350 million available under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement on January 28, 2012. The Company had $43.8 million outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement on January 29, 2011 denominated in Japanese Yen. The average interest rate was 2.4% for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has a Leverage Ratio and a Coverage Ratio. The Company was in compliance with the applicable ratio requirements and other covenants at January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is described in Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Refer to Note 21, Subsequent Event, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Stand by letters of credit outstanding on January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were immaterial. 46 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $365.2 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 compared to $391.8 million for fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by timing in tax payments, partially offset by an increase in net income adjusted for non cash items. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were used primarily for capital expenditures related to new store construction and information technology investments, as well as the acquisition of intangible assets. Cash outflows for capital expenditures were higher in Fiscal 2011 than in Fiscal 2010, due to an increase in the number of new international retail locations, including flashship locations, as well as Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology infrastructure projects. Cash inflows from investing activities were less in Fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the repurchase of A&Fs Common Stock, the payment of dividends and repayments of outstanding borrowings denominated in Japanese Yen under the Companys Prior Credit Agreement. These outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from the receipt of proceeds associated with the exercise of share based compensation awards. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of approximately $196.6 million. During the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of $76.2 million. Both the Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to the A&F Board of Directors authorization. As of January 28, 2012, A&F had approximately 6.2 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the November 20, 2007 A&F Board of Directors authorization to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock. Future Cash Requirements and Sources of Cash Over the next twelve months, the Companys primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, rent, taxes and other operating activities, as well as increasing capital expenditures and paying of quarterly dividend payments to stockholders subject to the A&F Board of Directors approval. The Company also has availability under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as a source of additional funding. In addition, on February 24, 2012, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Subject to suitable market conditions, A&F expects to continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock. The Company anticipates funding these cash requirements with available cash and as appropriate, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement. The Company is not dependent on foreign cash to fund its U.S. operations or dividends to shareholders and does not expect the need to repatriate foreign cash to meet cash needs. 47 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 28, 2012, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations Payments due by period (thousands) Operating Activities: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Operating Lease Obligations $ 3,053,632 $ 389,540 $ 745,994 $ 651,015 $ 1,267,083 Purchase Obligations 208,917 208,917 Other Obligations 44,853 15,271 18,918 2,706 7,958 Interest Related to Total Debt Totals $ 3,307,402 $ 613,728 $ 764,912 $ 653,721 $ 1,275,041 Financing Activities: Total Debt 20,917 924 2,099 2,527 15,367 Dividends Totals $ 20,917 $ 924 $ 2,099 $ 2,527 $ 15,367 Obligations for Operating Activities Operating lease obligations consist primarily of future minimum lease commitments related to store operating leases. See Note 11, Leased Facilities, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion. Operating lease obligations do not include common area maintenance (CAM), insurance, marketing or tax payments for which the Company is also obligated. Total expense related to CAM, insurance, marketing and taxes was $158.8 million in Fiscal 2011. The purchase obligations category represents purchase orders for merchandise to be delivered during Fiscal 2012 and commitments for fabric expected to be used during upcoming seasons. Other obligations consist primarily of lease termination obligations related to the closure of stores, asset retirement obligations, agreements to purchase intellectual property and information technology contracts for Fiscal 2011. See Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion of the letters of credit and construction debt. Due to uncertainty as to the amounts and timing of future payments, the contractual obligations table above does not include tax (including accrued interest and penalties) of $19.5 million related to unrecognized tax benefits at January 28, 2012. Deferred taxes are also not included in the preceding table. For further discussion, see Note 14, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The table above does not include estimated future retirement payments under the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the SERP) for the Companys Chief Executive Officer with a present value of $14.6 million at January 28, 2012. See Note 18, Retirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the description of the SERP to be 48 Table of Contents included in the text under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION in A&Fs definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012, incorporated by reference in ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Obligations for Financing Activities Total debt reflects amounts related to landlord financing obligations for certain leases where the Company is deemed the owner of the construction project for accounting purposes, as substantially all of the risk of ownership during construction of a leased property is held by the Company. The landlord financing obligation is amortized over the life of the related lease. A&F has historically paid quarterly dividends on its Common Stock. There are no amounts included in the above table related to dividends due to the fact that dividends are subject to determination and approval by A&Fs Board of Directors. 49 Table of Contents Year To Date Store Count and Gross Square Feet Store count and gross square footage by brand for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, were as follows: Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 New Closed (36 ) (27 ) (8 ) (71 ) January 28, 2012 280 154 494 18 946 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,514 727 3,373 176 6,790 International Stores January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 New 5 1 39 2 47 Closed January 28, 2012 14 5 77 3 99 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 264 59 642 23 988 Total Stores 294 159 571 21 1,045 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,778 786 4,015 199 7,778 Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 30, 2010 340 205 507 16 1,068 New 4 2 5 1 12 Remodels/Conversions (net activity) (1 ) 1 1 1 Closed (27 ) (27 ) (10 ) (64 ) January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,813 845 3,424 176 7,258 International Stores January 30, 2010 6 4 18 28 New 3 20 1 24 Closed January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 142 34 315 7 498 Total Stores 325 185 540 19 1,069 Total Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,955 879 3,739 183 7,756 50 Table of Contents CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $318.6 million, $160.9 million and $175.5 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. A summary of capital expenditures is as follows: Capital Expenditures (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 New Store Construction, Store Refreshes and Remodels $ 258.0 $ 118.0 $ 137.0 Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology 60.6 42.9 38.5 Total Capital Expenditures $ 318.6 $ 160.9 $ 175.5 During Fiscal 2012, based on new store opening plans and other capital expenditure plans, the Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $400 million. CLOSURE OF RUEHL BRANDED STORES AND RELATED DIRECT TO CONSUMER OPERATIONS On June 16, 2009, A&Fs Board of Directors approved the closure of the Companys 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recorded when the liability is incurred. During Fiscal 2011, the Company made gross cash payments totaling approximately $15.9 million, related primarily to the final lease termination agreements associated with the closure of RUEHL branded stores. Fifty Two Weeks EndedJanuary 28, 2012 Beginning Balance $ 17.2 Interest Accretion / Other, Net (1.3 ) Cash Payments (15.9 ) Ending Balance $ Recent Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Codification 820 10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, (ASC 820 10) was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfer; and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 31, 2010. The disclosure guidance adopted on January 31, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, ASC 820 10 was further amended to clarify certain disclosure requirements and improve consistency with international reporting standards. This amendment is to be applied prospectively and is effective for the Company beginning January 28, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, was amended in June 2011 to require entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive 51 Table of Contents income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendment does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income under current GAAP. This guidance is effective for the Companys fiscal year and interim periods beginning January 29, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Since actual results may differ from those estimates, the Company revises its estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available. The Company believes the following policies are the most critical to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results of operations. Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes retail sales at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. The Company reserves for sales returns through estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The value of point of sale coupons that result in a reduction of the price paid by the customer is recorded as a reduction of sales. The Company recognized direct to consumer sales based on an estimated date for customer receipt of merchandise. The Company reserves for direct to consumer sales not received by the customer based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The Company sells gift cards in its stores and through direct to consumer operations. The Company accounts for gift cards sold to customers by recognizing a liability at the time of sale. The liability remains on the Companys books until the earlier of redemption (recognized as revenue) or when the Company determines the likelihood of redemption is remote, known as breakage (recognized as other operating income), based on historical redemption patterns. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the sales return reserve and revenue recognition for gift cards over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to measure the sales return reserve or to measure the timing and amount of future gift card redemptions as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the sales return reserve as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the direct to consumer reserve for merchandise not received by the customer as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the assumption of the breakage for gift cards as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. 52 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Auction Rate Securities (ARS) As a result of the market failure and lack of liquidity in the current ARS market, the Company measures the fair value of its ARS primarily using a discounted cash flow model, as well as a comparison to similar securities in the market. Certain significant inputs into the model are unobservable in the market including the periodic coupon rate adjusted for the marketability discount, market required rate of return and expected term. While the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS securities, the Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Assuming all other assumptions disclosed in Note 7, Fair Value, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, being equal, a 50 basis point increase in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% increase in impairment and a 50 basis point decrease in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% decrease in impairment. 53 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Inventory Valuation Inventories are principally valued at the lower of average cost or market utilizing the retail method. The Company reduces inventory value by recording a valuation reserve that represents estimated future permanent markdowns necessary to sell through the inventory. The valuation reserve can fluctuate depending on the timing of markdowns previously recognized. Additionally, as part of inventory valuation, an inventory shrink estimate is made each period that reduces the value of inventory for lost or stolen items. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the shrink reserve or the valuation reserve over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the shrink reserve or valuation reserve as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the resulting gross margin(s). An increase or decrease in the valuation reserve of 10% would have affected pre tax income by approximately $7.2 million for Fiscal 2011. An increase or decrease in the inventory shrink accrual of 10% would have been immaterial to pre tax income for Fiscal 2011. 54 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Property and Equipment Long lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net asset group balances through future cash flows is in question. In addition, the Company conducts an annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. For the purposes of the annual review, the Company reviews long lived assets associated with stores that have an operating loss in the current year and have been open for at least two full years. The Companys impairment calculation requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to factors used in the evaluation for impairment, including, but not limited to, managements expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in our undiscounted future cash flow model include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine impairment loss over the past three fiscal years. During Fiscal 2011, 107 stores were tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011 as part of our annual review of all stores. Of the 107 stores tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011, 79 failed step one and were impaired. Of the 28 stores not impaired, 18 stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $10.6 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were 150% or more of this net asset group value. Ten stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $32.3 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were in the range of 105% to 150% of this net asset group value. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the assumptions underlying its impairment calculations as of January 28, 2012. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys determination of whether or not there has been an impairment. A 10% decrease in the sales assumption would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $38.0 million for Fiscal 2011. A decrease in the gross margin assumption of 10% would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $39.3 million for Fiscal 2011. 55 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach. Tax laws often require items to be included in tax filings at different times than the items are being reflected in the financial statements. A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on undistributed profits of non U.S. subsidiaries that the Company has determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with this hypothetical calculation. The Company does not expect material changes in the judgments, assumptions or interpretations used to calculate the tax provision for Fiscal 2011. However, changes in these assumptions may occur and should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys income tax provision. If the Companys intention or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. Equity Compensation Expense The Companys equity compensation expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants, which requires the Company to estimate the expected term of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants and expected future stock price volatility over the expected term. During Fiscal 2011, the Company granted stock appreciation rights covering an aggregate of 2,252,895 shares and no stock options. A 10% increase in the expected term would have yielded a 4% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year, while a 10% increase in stock price volatility would have yielded a 9% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year. 56 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Effective February 2, 2003, the Company established a Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide additional retirement income to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Subject to service requirements, the CEO will receive a monthly benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation (as defined in the SERP) for life. The final average compensation used for the calculation is based on actual compensation (base salary and actual annual cash incentive compensation) averaged over the last 36 consecutive full calendar months ending before the CEOs retirement. The Companys accrual for the SERP requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to the CEOs final average compensation, life expectancy and discount rate. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the accrual for the SERP as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% increase in final average compensation as of January 28, 2012 would increase the SERP accrual by approximately $1.5 million. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate as of January 28, 2012 would decrease the SERP accrual by an immaterial amount. Legal Contingencies The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversarial proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Actual liabilities may exceed or be less than the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 57 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Investment Securities The Company maintains its cash equivalents in financial instruments, primarily money market funds and United States treasury bills, with original maturities of three months or less. The Company also holds investments in investment grade auction rate securities (ARS) that have maturities ranging from 16 to 31 years. The par and carrying values, and related cumulative other than temporary impairment charges for the Companys available for sale marketable securities as of January 28, 2012 were as follows: ParValue Other than TemporaryImpairment CarryingValue (in thousands) Available for sale securities: Auction rate securities student loan backed $ 92,975 $ (8,325 ) $ 84,650 Auction rate securities municipal authority bonds 19,975 (5,117 ) 14,858 Total available for sale securities $ 112,950 $ (13,442 ) $ 99,508 As of January 28, 2012, approximately 46% of the Companys ARS were AAA rated, approximately 16% of the Companys ARS were AA rated, and approximately 38% of the Companys ARS were A rated, in each case as rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. The ratings take into account insurance policies guaranteeing both the principal and accrued interest. Each investment in student loans is insured by (1) the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, (2) a private insurer or (3) a combination of both. The percentage of insurance coverage of the outstanding principal and interest of the ARS varies by security. The credit ratings may change over time and would be an indicator of the default risk associated with the ARS and could have a material effect on the value of the ARS. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS, resulting in recognition of an other than temporary impairment of $13.4 million recognized in other expense. The irrevocable rabbi trust (the Rabbi Trust) is intended to be used as a source of funds to match respective funding obligations to participants in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I, the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II and the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. As of January 28, 2012, total assets held in the Rabbi Trust were $85.1 million and related to trust owned life insurance policies with a cash surrender value of $85.1 million and an immaterial amount of assets held in money market funds. The trust owned life insurance policies are recorded at cash surrender value, in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are restricted as to their use as noted above. Net realized and unrealized gains or losses related to the municipal notes and bonds held in the Rabbi Trust were not material for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. The change in cash surrender value of the trust owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust resulted in realized gains of $2.5 million and $2.3 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. Interest Rate Risks As of January 28, 2012, the Company had no long term debt outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. 58 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Rate Risk A&Fs international subsidiaries generally operate with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of, the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies affects the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as international expansion increases. A&F and its subsidiaries have exposure to changes in currency exchange rates associated with foreign currency transactions and forecasted foreign currency transactions, including the sale of inventory between subsidiaries and foreign denominated assets and liabilities. Such transactions are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen and Swiss Francs. The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to partially offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency transactions and forecasted transactions. Under this program, increases or decreases in foreign currency exposures are partially offset by gains or losses on forward contracts, to mitigate the impact of foreign currency gains or losses. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are recorded at fair value at the end of each fiscal period. 59 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW The Companys fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31, typically resulting in a fifty two week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a fifty three week year. A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. For purposes of this ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 and the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 30, 2010. The Company had net sales of $4.158 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, an increase of 20% from $3.469 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. Operating income for Fiscal 2011 was $190.0 million, which was down from $231.9 million in Fiscal 2010. Net income from continuing operations was $126.9 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share was $1.42 in Fiscal 2011, compared to net income from continuing operations of $150.3 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share of $1.67 in Fiscal 2010. Excluding charges for impairments and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements and a change in intent regarding the Companys auction rate securities (ARS), the Company reported adjusted, non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.30 for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. Excluding store related asset impairment charges and exit charges associated with domestic store closures, the Company reported non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.05 for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. 36 Table of Contents The Company believes that the non GAAP financial measures are useful to investors as they provide the ability to measure the Companys operating performance and compare it against that of prior periods without reference to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income impact of non cash, store related asset impairment charges, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the fiscal year and a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. These non GAAP financial measures should not be used as alternatives to net income per diluted share or as indicators of the ongoing operating performance of the Company and are also not intended to supersede or replace the Companys GAAP financial measures. The table below reconciles the GAAP financial measures to the non GAAP financial measures discussed above. Fifty Two Weeks Ended January 28, 2012 January 29, 2011 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis $ 1.42 $ 1.67 Plus: Asset impairment charges(1) 0.49 0.34 Plus: Asset write downs(2) 0.10 Plus: Store closure and lease exit charges(3) 0.13 0.03 Plus: Legal charges(4) 0.07 Plus: ARS charges(5) 0.09 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a non GAAP basis $ 2.30 $ 2.05 Plus: Net income from discontinued operations 0.01 Net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis $ 2.31 $ 2.05 (1) The store related asset impairment charges relate to stores whose asset carrying value exceeded their fair value. For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was associated with 14 Abercrombie & Fitch, 21 abercrombie kids, 42 Hollister and two Gilly Hicks stores. For the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011, the charge was associated with two Abercrombie & Fitch, two abercrombie kids, nine Hollister and 13 Gilly Hicks stores. (2) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the asset write downs was related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project. (3) For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the charges for store closures and lease exits were associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. (4) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was related to legal settlements during the fourth quarter. (5) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the ARS was related to a change in intent with regard to the Companys auction rate securities portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment. Net cash provided by operating activities, the Companys primary source of liquidity, was $365.2 million for Fiscal 2011. This source of cash was primarily driven by results from operations, adjusted for non cash items, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses partially offset by increases in inventory. The Company used $318.6 million of cash for capital expenditures. The Company 37 Table of Contents also repurchased $196.6 million of Common Stock, paid dividends totaling $61.0 million, repaid borrowings under the credit agreement of $45.0 million and received $46.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options during Fiscal 2011. As of January 28, 2012, the Company had $583.5 million in cash and equivalents, no outstanding debt aside from that related to landlord financing obligations, and immaterial stand by letters of credit. The following data represents the amounts shown in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2011 2010 2009 NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 39.4 36.2 35.7 GROSS PROFIT 60.6 63.8 64.3 Stores and Distribution Expense 45.4 45.8 48.7 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 10.5 11.6 12.1 Other Operating Expense (Income), Net 0.1 (0.3 ) (0.5 ) OPERATING INCOME 4.6 6.7 4.0 Interest Expense (Income), Net 0.1 0.1 (0.1 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES 4.5 6.6 4.1 Tax Expense from Continuing Operations 1.4 2.3 1.4 NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 3.1 4.3 2.7 INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, Net of Taxes 0.0 (2.7 ) NET INCOME 3.1 % 4.3 % 0.0 % 38 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and statistical data compares Fiscal 2011 to Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2009, and Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008: 2011 2010 2009 Net sales by segment (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 U.S. Stores $ 2,710,842 $ 2,546,798 $ 2,377,771 International Stores $ 876,613 $ 505,136 $ 256,216 Direct to consumer $ 552,603 $ 404,974 $ 290,102 Other $ 18,000 $ 11,869 $ 4,537 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% U.S. Stores 6 % 7 % (21 )% International Stores 74 % 97 % 70 % Direct to consumer 36 % 40 % (8 )% Other 52 % 162 % 15 % Net sales by brand (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 Abercrombie & Fitch $ 1,665,135 $ 1,493,101 $ 1,272,287 abercrombie $ 397,904 $ 382,579 $ 343,164 Hollister $ 2,022,002 $ 1,552,814 $ 1,287,241 Gilly Hicks** $ 73,017 $ 40,283 $ 25,934 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 12 % 17 % (17 )% abercrombie 4 % 11 % (18 )% Hollister 30 % 21 % (15 )% Gilly Hicks 81 % 55 % 45 % Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales* 5 % 7 % (23 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 3 % 9 % (19 )% abercrombie 4 % 5 % (23 )% Hollister 8 % 6 % (27 )% * A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand 12 months or more and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. ** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 reflect the activity of 21, 19 and 16 stores, respectively. CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Our results for Fiscal 2011 were below our expectations in a very challenging environment. During Fiscal 2011, we saw all time high cotton costs, resulting in higher average unit costs. In addition, we were not able to offset the increases in the costs with increased average unit retail prices due to a highly aggressive promotional environment in the U.S. We expect to see a significant reversal in the average unit cost trend in Fiscal 2012, especially in the second half of the year; however, we remain cautious about our ability to raise average unit retail prices in the U.S. We expect significant margin improvement in Fiscal 2012 due primarily to a combination of average unit cost reductions and the expected performance of our 39 Table of Contents new international stores and our direct to consumer business. We will continue to take a long term approach, and will not sacrifice quality to achieve cost reductions. We are confident that we are on track in regard to our long term strategy of leveraging the international appeal of our brands to build a highly profitable, sustainable, global business. There are five key elements to this strategy. First, continuing to provide high quality, trend right merchandise and a compelling and differentiated store experience. Second, continuing to close underperforming U.S. chain stores. During Fiscal 2011, we closed 68 U.S. chain stores, predominately at the end of the year through natural lease expirations, bringing the total stores closed over the last two years to 135 stores. Third, advancing our direct to consumer business, which should benefit from multiple investments we are making in the business and from our growing international presence. Fourth, continuing to focus on our highly profitable international real estate plan. During Fiscal 2011, we opened five new A&F flagship stores and 39 international Hollister stores. In Fiscal 2012, we expect to open A&F flagship or Tier 1 stores in Hamburg, Hong Kong, Munich, Amsterdam and Dublin, and we expect to open close to 40 Hollister international stores. Finally, maintaining tight control over expenses and seeking greater efficiencies, for example, through consolidation of our two domestic distribution centers. The consolidation is expected to be completed by the end of Fiscal 2012 and is expected to facilitate the sale or lease of the second distribution center and result in reduced operating costs. Based on these factors, we anticipate strong EPS growth in Fiscal 2012, notwithstanding an approximately flat same store sales assumption. Longer term, our objective remains to deliver consistent and sustainable growth in sales and EPS. We believe trend rates of close to 15% in sales and somewhat above that in EPS are realistic goals. The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; U.S. and International store performance; Store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; 40 Table of Contents Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2011 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2010 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2011 were $4.158 billion, an increase of 20% from Fiscal 2010 net sales of $3.469 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to new stores, primarily international, a 5% increase in comparable store sales, and a 36% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. The impact of foreign currency on sales (based on converting prior year sales at current year exchange rates) for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 was a benefit of $21.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $2.711 billion, an increase of 6% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $2.547 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $876.6 million, an increase of 74% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $505.1 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2011, including shipping and handling revenue, were $552.6 million, an increase of 36% from Fiscal 2010 direct to consumer sales of $405.0 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 13.3% of total net sales in Fiscal 2011 compared to 11.7% in Fiscal 2010. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2011 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 3%, with mens and womens increasing by a low single digit percent. abercrombie kids increased 4%, with guys increasing by a high single digit and girls increasing by a low single digit. Hollister increased 8%, with dudes and bettys increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, the Southern and the Western regions of the U.S. were the strongest performing regions, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. From a merchandise classification standpoint, fleece, active wear, and knit tops were stronger performing categories for the male business while graphics and woven shirts were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, sweaters, and knit tops were stronger performing categories, while graphics and dresses were weaker performing categories. 41 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2011 was $2.519 billion compared to $2.212 billion during Fiscal 2010. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 60.6%, down 320 basis points from the Fiscal 2010 rate of 63.8%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in average unit cost combined with higher markdowns. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2011 was $1.888 billion compared to $1.590 billion in Fiscal 2010. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 45.4% compared to 45.8% in Fiscal 2010. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 included store related asset impairment charges of $68.0 million associated with 79 stores, asset write down charges of $14.6 million related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project, and store exit charges of $19.0 million, associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. For the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $53.6 million and $38.9 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $62.8 million and $42.8 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2011 was $437.1 million compared to $400.8 million in Fiscal 2010. For Fiscal 2011, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.5%, compared to 11.6% for Fiscal 2010. Marketing, general and administrative expense for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 included $10.0 million in charges in connection with fourth quarter legal settlements. In addition to legal settlement charges, the increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2011 was primarily due to increases in compensation, including equity compensation, outside services, marketing, travel and IT expenses. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense, net was $3.5 million compared to other operating income, net of $10.1 million for Fiscal 2010. Other operating expense, net for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 42 Table of Contents included $13.4 million of expense related to a change in the Companys intent regarding the sale of its ARS portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment in Fiscal 2011. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense Fiscal 2011 interest expense was $7.9 million, offset by interest income of $4.3 million, compared to interest expense of $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million for Fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 was 32.0% compared to 34.3% for Fiscal 2010, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. As of January 28, 2012, there were approximately $25.6 million of net deferred tax assets in Japan with a valuation allowance of $2.4 million. The valuation allowance in Japan was established as the result of changes to the business configuration of operations in Japan, as well as tax law changes. The realization of the net deferred tax assets not subject to a valuation allowance is dependent upon the future generation of sufficient profits in Japan. While the Company believes it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized, it is not certain. Should circumstances change, some or all of the net deferred tax assets not currently subject to a valuation allowance may be in the future. Any increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional tax expense. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for all years presented. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2011 was $127.7 million compared to $150.3 million for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 was $1.43 compared to $1.67 for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.49 per diluted share, asset write down charges of approximately $0.10 per diluted share, store closure and exit charges of approximately $0.13 per diluted share, legal charges of approximately $0.07 per diluted share, and other than temporary impairment charges of approximately $0.09 per diluted share related to a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS portfolio. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share. Refer to the GAAP reconciliation table in the OVERVIEW section of ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for a reconciliation of net income per diluted share on a GAAP basis to net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis, excluding charges for impairment and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the quarter and with a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. 43 Table of Contents FISCAL 2010 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2009 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2010 were $3.469 billion, an increase of 18% from Fiscal 2009 net sales of $2.929 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, a 40% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, and new stores, primarily international. The impact of foreign currency on sales for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 was less than 1% of net sales. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $2.547 billion, an increase of 7% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $2.378 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $505.1 million, an increase of 97% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $256.2 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2010, including shipping and handling revenue, were $405.0 million, an increase of 40% from Fiscal 2009 direct to consumer sales of $290.1 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.7% of total net sales in Fiscal 2010 compared to 9.9% in Fiscal 2009. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2010 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 9%, with womens increasing by a high single digit percent and mens increasing by a low double digit. abercrombie kids increased 5%, with girls and guys each increasing by a mid single digit. Hollister increased 6%, with bettys increasing by a mid single digit and dudes increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, Europe was the strongest performing region, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. For Fiscal 2010, from a comparable store sales perspective across all brands, the masculine categories out paced the feminine categories. From a merchandise classification standpoint, woven shirts, fleece, and outerwear were stronger performing categories for the male business while jeans and graphics were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, dresses, and fleece were stronger performing categories, while knit tops and jeans were weaker performing categories. Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2010 was $2.212 billion compared to $1.884 billion during Fiscal 2009. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was 63.8%, down 50 basis points from the Fiscal 2009 rate of 64.3%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by a 9% decrease in average unit retail, which was partially offset by a reduction in average unit cost. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2010 was $1.590 billion compared to $1.426 billion in Fiscal 2009. The stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was 45.8% compared to 48.7% in Fiscal 2009. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. For the fifty two weeks ended January 30, 2010, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 99 stores of $33.2 million. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy and payroll costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $38.9 million and $30.7 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $42.8 million and $34.1 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2010 was $400.8 million compared to $353.3 million in Fiscal 2009. For Fiscal 2010, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.6%, compared to 12.1% for Fiscal 2009. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits, including incentive and equity compensation, and net legal expense. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income, net for Fiscal 2010 was $10.1 million compared to $13.5 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower net gains from foreign currency denominated transactions compared to Fiscal 2009. In Fiscal 2009, other operating income also benefited from a reduction of an other than temporary impairment of $9.2 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, partially offset by a reduction of a related put option of $7.7 million. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense from Continuing Operations Fiscal 2010 interest expense was $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million, compared to interest income of $8.2 million, offset by interest expense of $6.6 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest income was primarily the result of a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due primarily to imputed interest expense related to certain store lease transactions and higher fees associated with the unsecured amended credit agreement. The effective tax rate from continuing operations for Fiscal 2010 was 34.3% compared to 33.9% for Fiscal 2009, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $78.7 million for Fiscal 2009. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. 45 Table of Contents Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2010 was $150.3 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 was $1.67 compared to $0.00 for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share associated with 26 stores and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2009 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.23 per diluted share associated with 99 stores and a loss per diluted share from discontinued operations, net of tax, of approximately $0.89. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Sources and Uses of Cash Seasonality of Cash Flows The retail business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (Spring) and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (Fall). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back to School and Holiday sales periods, particularly in the U.S. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a credit facility and the term loan agreement available as sources of additional funding. Credit Agreements On July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) under which up to $350 million will be available. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement serves to amend and restate, in its entirety, the credit agreement dated April 15, 2008 as previously amended (the Prior Credit Agreement). The primary reasons for entering into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement were to extend the termination date from April 12, 2013 to July 27, 2016 and to reduce fees and interest rates. As of March 16, 2012, the Company had approximately $350 million available under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement on January 28, 2012. The Company had $43.8 million outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement on January 29, 2011 denominated in Japanese Yen. The average interest rate was 2.4% for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has a Leverage Ratio and a Coverage Ratio. The Company was in compliance with the applicable ratio requirements and other covenants at January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is described in Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Refer to Note 21, Subsequent Event, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Stand by letters of credit outstanding on January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were immaterial. 46 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $365.2 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 compared to $391.8 million for fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by timing in tax payments, partially offset by an increase in net income adjusted for non cash items. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were used primarily for capital expenditures related to new store construction and information technology investments, as well as the acquisition of intangible assets. Cash outflows for capital expenditures were higher in Fiscal 2011 than in Fiscal 2010, due to an increase in the number of new international retail locations, including flashship locations, as well as Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology infrastructure projects. Cash inflows from investing activities were less in Fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the repurchase of A&Fs Common Stock, the payment of dividends and repayments of outstanding borrowings denominated in Japanese Yen under the Companys Prior Credit Agreement. These outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from the receipt of proceeds associated with the exercise of share based compensation awards. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of approximately $196.6 million. During the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of $76.2 million. Both the Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to the A&F Board of Directors authorization. As of January 28, 2012, A&F had approximately 6.2 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the November 20, 2007 A&F Board of Directors authorization to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock. Future Cash Requirements and Sources of Cash Over the next twelve months, the Companys primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, rent, taxes and other operating activities, as well as increasing capital expenditures and paying of quarterly dividend payments to stockholders subject to the A&F Board of Directors approval. The Company also has availability under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as a source of additional funding. In addition, on February 24, 2012, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Subject to suitable market conditions, A&F expects to continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock. The Company anticipates funding these cash requirements with available cash and as appropriate, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement. The Company is not dependent on foreign cash to fund its U.S. operations or dividends to shareholders and does not expect the need to repatriate foreign cash to meet cash needs. 47 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 28, 2012, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations Payments due by period (thousands) Operating Activities: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Operating Lease Obligations $ 3,053,632 $ 389,540 $ 745,994 $ 651,015 $ 1,267,083 Purchase Obligations 208,917 208,917 Other Obligations 44,853 15,271 18,918 2,706 7,958 Interest Related to Total Debt Totals $ 3,307,402 $ 613,728 $ 764,912 $ 653,721 $ 1,275,041 Financing Activities: Total Debt 20,917 924 2,099 2,527 15,367 Dividends Totals $ 20,917 $ 924 $ 2,099 $ 2,527 $ 15,367 Obligations for Operating Activities Operating lease obligations consist primarily of future minimum lease commitments related to store operating leases. See Note 11, Leased Facilities, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion. Operating lease obligations do not include common area maintenance (CAM), insurance, marketing or tax payments for which the Company is also obligated. Total expense related to CAM, insurance, marketing and taxes was $158.8 million in Fiscal 2011. The purchase obligations category represents purchase orders for merchandise to be delivered during Fiscal 2012 and commitments for fabric expected to be used during upcoming seasons. Other obligations consist primarily of lease termination obligations related to the closure of stores, asset retirement obligations, agreements to purchase intellectual property and information technology contracts for Fiscal 2011. See Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion of the letters of credit and construction debt. Due to uncertainty as to the amounts and timing of future payments, the contractual obligations table above does not include tax (including accrued interest and penalties) of $19.5 million related to unrecognized tax benefits at January 28, 2012. Deferred taxes are also not included in the preceding table. For further discussion, see Note 14, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The table above does not include estimated future retirement payments under the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the SERP) for the Companys Chief Executive Officer with a present value of $14.6 million at January 28, 2012. See Note 18, Retirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the description of the SERP to be 48 Table of Contents included in the text under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION in A&Fs definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012, incorporated by reference in ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Obligations for Financing Activities Total debt reflects amounts related to landlord financing obligations for certain leases where the Company is deemed the owner of the construction project for accounting purposes, as substantially all of the risk of ownership during construction of a leased property is held by the Company. The landlord financing obligation is amortized over the life of the related lease. A&F has historically paid quarterly dividends on its Common Stock. There are no amounts included in the above table related to dividends due to the fact that dividends are subject to determination and approval by A&Fs Board of Directors. 49 Table of Contents Year To Date Store Count and Gross Square Feet Store count and gross square footage by brand for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, were as follows: Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 New Closed (36 ) (27 ) (8 ) (71 ) January 28, 2012 280 154 494 18 946 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,514 727 3,373 176 6,790 International Stores January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 New 5 1 39 2 47 Closed January 28, 2012 14 5 77 3 99 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 264 59 642 23 988 Total Stores 294 159 571 21 1,045 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,778 786 4,015 199 7,778 Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 30, 2010 340 205 507 16 1,068 New 4 2 5 1 12 Remodels/Conversions (net activity) (1 ) 1 1 1 Closed (27 ) (27 ) (10 ) (64 ) January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,813 845 3,424 176 7,258 International Stores January 30, 2010 6 4 18 28 New 3 20 1 24 Closed January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 142 34 315 7 498 Total Stores 325 185 540 19 1,069 Total Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,955 879 3,739 183 7,756 50 Table of Contents CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $318.6 million, $160.9 million and $175.5 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. A summary of capital expenditures is as follows: Capital Expenditures (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 New Store Construction, Store Refreshes and Remodels $ 258.0 $ 118.0 $ 137.0 Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology 60.6 42.9 38.5 Total Capital Expenditures $ 318.6 $ 160.9 $ 175.5 During Fiscal 2012, based on new store opening plans and other capital expenditure plans, the Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $400 million. CLOSURE OF RUEHL BRANDED STORES AND RELATED DIRECT TO CONSUMER OPERATIONS On June 16, 2009, A&Fs Board of Directors approved the closure of the Companys 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recorded when the liability is incurred. During Fiscal 2011, the Company made gross cash payments totaling approximately $15.9 million, related primarily to the final lease termination agreements associated with the closure of RUEHL branded stores. Fifty Two Weeks EndedJanuary 28, 2012 Beginning Balance $ 17.2 Interest Accretion / Other, Net (1.3 ) Cash Payments (15.9 ) Ending Balance $ Recent Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Codification 820 10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, (ASC 820 10) was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfer; and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 31, 2010. The disclosure guidance adopted on January 31, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, ASC 820 10 was further amended to clarify certain disclosure requirements and improve consistency with international reporting standards. This amendment is to be applied prospectively and is effective for the Company beginning January 28, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, was amended in June 2011 to require entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive 51 Table of Contents income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendment does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income under current GAAP. This guidance is effective for the Companys fiscal year and interim periods beginning January 29, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Since actual results may differ from those estimates, the Company revises its estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available. The Company believes the following policies are the most critical to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results of operations. Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes retail sales at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. The Company reserves for sales returns through estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The value of point of sale coupons that result in a reduction of the price paid by the customer is recorded as a reduction of sales. The Company recognized direct to consumer sales based on an estimated date for customer receipt of merchandise. The Company reserves for direct to consumer sales not received by the customer based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The Company sells gift cards in its stores and through direct to consumer operations. The Company accounts for gift cards sold to customers by recognizing a liability at the time of sale. The liability remains on the Companys books until the earlier of redemption (recognized as revenue) or when the Company determines the likelihood of redemption is remote, known as breakage (recognized as other operating income), based on historical redemption patterns. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the sales return reserve and revenue recognition for gift cards over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to measure the sales return reserve or to measure the timing and amount of future gift card redemptions as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the sales return reserve as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the direct to consumer reserve for merchandise not received by the customer as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the assumption of the breakage for gift cards as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. 52 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Auction Rate Securities (ARS) As a result of the market failure and lack of liquidity in the current ARS market, the Company measures the fair value of its ARS primarily using a discounted cash flow model, as well as a comparison to similar securities in the market. Certain significant inputs into the model are unobservable in the market including the periodic coupon rate adjusted for the marketability discount, market required rate of return and expected term. While the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS securities, the Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Assuming all other assumptions disclosed in Note 7, Fair Value, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, being equal, a 50 basis point increase in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% increase in impairment and a 50 basis point decrease in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% decrease in impairment. 53 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Inventory Valuation Inventories are principally valued at the lower of average cost or market utilizing the retail method. The Company reduces inventory value by recording a valuation reserve that represents estimated future permanent markdowns necessary to sell through the inventory. The valuation reserve can fluctuate depending on the timing of markdowns previously recognized. Additionally, as part of inventory valuation, an inventory shrink estimate is made each period that reduces the value of inventory for lost or stolen items. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the shrink reserve or the valuation reserve over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the shrink reserve or valuation reserve as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the resulting gross margin(s). An increase or decrease in the valuation reserve of 10% would have affected pre tax income by approximately $7.2 million for Fiscal 2011. An increase or decrease in the inventory shrink accrual of 10% would have been immaterial to pre tax income for Fiscal 2011. 54 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Property and Equipment Long lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net asset group balances through future cash flows is in question. In addition, the Company conducts an annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. For the purposes of the annual review, the Company reviews long lived assets associated with stores that have an operating loss in the current year and have been open for at least two full years. The Companys impairment calculation requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to factors used in the evaluation for impairment, including, but not limited to, managements expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in our undiscounted future cash flow model include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine impairment loss over the past three fiscal years. During Fiscal 2011, 107 stores were tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011 as part of our annual review of all stores. Of the 107 stores tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011, 79 failed step one and were impaired. Of the 28 stores not impaired, 18 stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $10.6 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were 150% or more of this net asset group value. Ten stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $32.3 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were in the range of 105% to 150% of this net asset group value. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the assumptions underlying its impairment calculations as of January 28, 2012. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys determination of whether or not there has been an impairment. A 10% decrease in the sales assumption would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $38.0 million for Fiscal 2011. A decrease in the gross margin assumption of 10% would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $39.3 million for Fiscal 2011. 55 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach. Tax laws often require items to be included in tax filings at different times than the items are being reflected in the financial statements. A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on undistributed profits of non U.S. subsidiaries that the Company has determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with this hypothetical calculation. The Company does not expect material changes in the judgments, assumptions or interpretations used to calculate the tax provision for Fiscal 2011. However, changes in these assumptions may occur and should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys income tax provision. If the Companys intention or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. Equity Compensation Expense The Companys equity compensation expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants, which requires the Company to estimate the expected term of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants and expected future stock price volatility over the expected term. During Fiscal 2011, the Company granted stock appreciation rights covering an aggregate of 2,252,895 shares and no stock options. A 10% increase in the expected term would have yielded a 4% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year, while a 10% increase in stock price volatility would have yielded a 9% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year. 56 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Effective February 2, 2003, the Company established a Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide additional retirement income to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Subject to service requirements, the CEO will receive a monthly benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation (as defined in the SERP) for life. The final average compensation used for the calculation is based on actual compensation (base salary and actual annual cash incentive compensation) averaged over the last 36 consecutive full calendar months ending before the CEOs retirement. The Companys accrual for the SERP requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to the CEOs final average compensation, life expectancy and discount rate. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the accrual for the SERP as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% increase in final average compensation as of January 28, 2012 would increase the SERP accrual by approximately $1.5 million. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate as of January 28, 2012 would decrease the SERP accrual by an immaterial amount. Legal Contingencies The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversarial proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Actual liabilities may exceed or be less than the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 57 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Investment Securities The Company maintains its cash equivalents in financial instruments, primarily money market funds and United States treasury bills, with original maturities of three months or less. The Company also holds investments in investment grade auction rate securities (ARS) that have maturities ranging from 16 to 31 years. The par and carrying values, and related cumulative other than temporary impairment charges for the Companys available for sale marketable securities as of January 28, 2012 were as follows: ParValue Other than TemporaryImpairment CarryingValue (in thousands) Available for sale securities: Auction rate securities student loan backed $ 92,975 $ (8,325 ) $ 84,650 Auction rate securities municipal authority bonds 19,975 (5,117 ) 14,858 Total available for sale securities $ 112,950 $ (13,442 ) $ 99,508 As of January 28, 2012, approximately 46% of the Companys ARS were AAA rated, approximately 16% of the Companys ARS were AA rated, and approximately 38% of the Companys ARS were A rated, in each case as rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. The ratings take into account insurance policies guaranteeing both the principal and accrued interest. Each investment in student loans is insured by (1) the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, (2) a private insurer or (3) a combination of both. The percentage of insurance coverage of the outstanding principal and interest of the ARS varies by security. The credit ratings may change over time and would be an indicator of the default risk associated with the ARS and could have a material effect on the value of the ARS. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS, resulting in recognition of an other than temporary impairment of $13.4 million recognized in other expense. The irrevocable rabbi trust (the Rabbi Trust) is intended to be used as a source of funds to match respective funding obligations to participants in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I, the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II and the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. As of January 28, 2012, total assets held in the Rabbi Trust were $85.1 million and related to trust owned life insurance policies with a cash surrender value of $85.1 million and an immaterial amount of assets held in money market funds. The trust owned life insurance policies are recorded at cash surrender value, in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are restricted as to their use as noted above. Net realized and unrealized gains or losses related to the municipal notes and bonds held in the Rabbi Trust were not material for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. The change in cash surrender value of the trust owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust resulted in realized gains of $2.5 million and $2.3 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. Interest Rate Risks As of January 28, 2012, the Company had no long term debt outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. 58 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Rate Risk A&Fs international subsidiaries generally operate with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of, the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies affects the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as international expansion increases. A&F and its subsidiaries have exposure to changes in currency exchange rates associated with foreign currency transactions and forecasted foreign currency transactions, including the sale of inventory between subsidiaries and foreign denominated assets and liabilities. Such transactions are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen and Swiss Francs. The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to partially offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency transactions and forecasted transactions. Under this program, increases or decreases in foreign currency exposures are partially offset by gains or losses on forward contracts, to mitigate the impact of foreign currency gains or losses. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are recorded at fair value at the end of each fiscal period. 59 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 and the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 is compared to the fifty two week period ended January 30, 2010. The Company had net sales of $4.158 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, an increase of 20% from $3.469 billion for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. Operating income for Fiscal 2011 was $190.0 million, which was down from $231.9 million in Fiscal 2010. Net income from continuing operations was $126.9 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share was $1.42 in Fiscal 2011, compared to net income from continuing operations of $150.3 million and net income from continuing operations per diluted share of $1.67 in Fiscal 2010. Excluding charges for impairments and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements and a change in intent regarding the Companys auction rate securities (ARS), the Company reported adjusted, non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.30 for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. Excluding store related asset impairment charges and exit charges associated with domestic store closures, the Company reported non GAAP net income per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.05 for the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. 36 Table of Contents The Company believes that the non GAAP financial measures are useful to investors as they provide the ability to measure the Companys operating performance and compare it against that of prior periods without reference to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income impact of non cash, store related asset impairment charges, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the fiscal year and a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. These non GAAP financial measures should not be used as alternatives to net income per diluted share or as indicators of the ongoing operating performance of the Company and are also not intended to supersede or replace the Companys GAAP financial measures. The table below reconciles the GAAP financial measures to the non GAAP financial measures discussed above. Fifty Two Weeks Ended January 28, 2012 January 29, 2011 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a GAAP basis $ 1.42 $ 1.67 Plus: Asset impairment charges(1) 0.49 0.34 Plus: Asset write downs(2) 0.10 Plus: Store closure and lease exit charges(3) 0.13 0.03 Plus: Legal charges(4) 0.07 Plus: ARS charges(5) 0.09 Net income per diluted share from continuing operations on a non GAAP basis $ 2.30 $ 2.05 Plus: Net income from discontinued operations 0.01 Net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis $ 2.31 $ 2.05 (1) The store related asset impairment charges relate to stores whose asset carrying value exceeded their fair value. For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was associated with 14 Abercrombie & Fitch, 21 abercrombie kids, 42 Hollister and two Gilly Hicks stores. For the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011, the charge was associated with two Abercrombie & Fitch, two abercrombie kids, nine Hollister and 13 Gilly Hicks stores. (2) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the asset write downs was related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project. (3) For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, the charges for store closures and lease exits were associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. (4) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge was related to legal settlements during the fourth quarter. (5) For the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012, the charge associated with the ARS was related to a change in intent with regard to the Companys auction rate securities portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment. Net cash provided by operating activities, the Companys primary source of liquidity, was $365.2 million for Fiscal 2011. This source of cash was primarily driven by results from operations, adjusted for non cash items, an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses partially offset by increases in inventory. The Company used $318.6 million of cash for capital expenditures. The Company 37 Table of Contents also repurchased $196.6 million of Common Stock, paid dividends totaling $61.0 million, repaid borrowings under the credit agreement of $45.0 million and received $46.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options during Fiscal 2011. As of January 28, 2012, the Company had $583.5 million in cash and equivalents, no outstanding debt aside from that related to landlord financing obligations, and immaterial stand by letters of credit. The following data represents the amounts shown in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the last three fiscal years, expressed as a percentage of net sales: 2011 2010 2009 NET SALES 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of Goods Sold 39.4 36.2 35.7 GROSS PROFIT 60.6 63.8 64.3 Stores and Distribution Expense 45.4 45.8 48.7 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense 10.5 11.6 12.1 Other Operating Expense (Income), Net 0.1 (0.3 ) (0.5 ) OPERATING INCOME 4.6 6.7 4.0 Interest Expense (Income), Net 0.1 0.1 (0.1 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES 4.5 6.6 4.1 Tax Expense from Continuing Operations 1.4 2.3 1.4 NET INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 3.1 4.3 2.7 INCOME (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, Net of Taxes 0.0 (2.7 ) NET INCOME 3.1 % 4.3 % 0.0 % 38 Table of Contents FINANCIAL SUMMARY The following summarized financial and statistical data compares Fiscal 2011 to Fiscal 2010, Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2009, and Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008: 2011 2010 2009 Net sales by segment (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 U.S. Stores $ 2,710,842 $ 2,546,798 $ 2,377,771 International Stores $ 876,613 $ 505,136 $ 256,216 Direct to consumer $ 552,603 $ 404,974 $ 290,102 Other $ 18,000 $ 11,869 $ 4,537 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% U.S. Stores 6 % 7 % (21 )% International Stores 74 % 97 % 70 % Direct to consumer 36 % 40 % (8 )% Other 52 % 162 % 15 % Net sales by brand (in thousands) $ 4,158,058 $ 3,468,777 $ 2,928,626 Abercrombie & Fitch $ 1,665,135 $ 1,493,101 $ 1,272,287 abercrombie $ 397,904 $ 382,579 $ 343,164 Hollister $ 2,022,002 $ 1,552,814 $ 1,287,241 Gilly Hicks** $ 73,017 $ 40,283 $ 25,934 Increase (decrease) in net sales from prior year 20 % 18 % (16 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 12 % 17 % (17 )% abercrombie 4 % 11 % (18 )% Hollister 30 % 21 % (15 )% Gilly Hicks 81 % 55 % 45 % Increase (decrease) in comparable store sales* 5 % 7 % (23 )% Abercrombie & Fitch 3 % 9 % (19 )% abercrombie 4 % 5 % (23 )% Hollister 8 % 6 % (27 )% * A store is included in comparable store sales when it has been open as the same brand 12 months or more and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. ** Net sales for the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 reflect the activity of 21, 19 and 16 stores, respectively. CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Our results for Fiscal 2011 were below our expectations in a very challenging environment. During Fiscal 2011, we saw all time high cotton costs, resulting in higher average unit costs. In addition, we were not able to offset the increases in the costs with increased average unit retail prices due to a highly aggressive promotional environment in the U.S. We expect to see a significant reversal in the average unit cost trend in Fiscal 2012, especially in the second half of the year; however, we remain cautious about our ability to raise average unit retail prices in the U.S. We expect significant margin improvement in Fiscal 2012 due primarily to a combination of average unit cost reductions and the expected performance of our 39 Table of Contents new international stores and our direct to consumer business. We will continue to take a long term approach, and will not sacrifice quality to achieve cost reductions. We are confident that we are on track in regard to our long term strategy of leveraging the international appeal of our brands to build a highly profitable, sustainable, global business. There are five key elements to this strategy. First, continuing to provide high quality, trend right merchandise and a compelling and differentiated store experience. Second, continuing to close underperforming U.S. chain stores. During Fiscal 2011, we closed 68 U.S. chain stores, predominately at the end of the year through natural lease expirations, bringing the total stores closed over the last two years to 135 stores. Third, advancing our direct to consumer business, which should benefit from multiple investments we are making in the business and from our growing international presence. Fourth, continuing to focus on our highly profitable international real estate plan. During Fiscal 2011, we opened five new A&F flagship stores and 39 international Hollister stores. In Fiscal 2012, we expect to open A&F flagship or Tier 1 stores in Hamburg, Hong Kong, Munich, Amsterdam and Dublin, and we expect to open close to 40 Hollister international stores. Finally, maintaining tight control over expenses and seeking greater efficiencies, for example, through consolidation of our two domestic distribution centers. The consolidation is expected to be completed by the end of Fiscal 2012 and is expected to facilitate the sale or lease of the second distribution center and result in reduced operating costs. Based on these factors, we anticipate strong EPS growth in Fiscal 2012, notwithstanding an approximately flat same store sales assumption. Longer term, our objective remains to deliver consistent and sustainable growth in sales and EPS. We believe trend rates of close to 15% in sales and somewhat above that in EPS are realistic goals. The following measurements are among the key business indicators reviewed by various members of management to gauge the Companys results: Comparable store sales, defined as year over year sales for a store that has been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage has not been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year; Direct to consumer sales growth; U.S. and International store performance; Store productivity; Initial Mark Up (IMU); Markdown rate; Gross profit rate; Selling margin, defined as sales price less original cost, by brand and by product category; Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales; Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales; 40 Table of Contents Operating income and operating income as a percentage of net sales; Net income; Inventory per gross square foot; Cash flow and liquidity determined by the Companys current ratio and cash provided by operations; and Store metrics such as sales per gross square foot, sales per selling square foot, average unit retail, average number of transactions per store, average transaction values, store contribution (defined as store sales less direct costs of running the store), and average units per transaction. While not all of these metrics are disclosed publicly by the Company due to the proprietary nature of the information, the Company publicly discloses and discusses many of these metrics as part of its Financial Summary and in several sections within this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FISCAL 2011 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2010 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2011 were $4.158 billion, an increase of 20% from Fiscal 2010 net sales of $3.469 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to new stores, primarily international, a 5% increase in comparable store sales, and a 36% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue. The impact of foreign currency on sales (based on converting prior year sales at current year exchange rates) for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 was a benefit of $21.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $2.711 billion, an increase of 6% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $2.547 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2011 were $876.6 million, an increase of 74% from Fiscal 2010 sales of $505.1 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2011, including shipping and handling revenue, were $552.6 million, an increase of 36% from Fiscal 2010 direct to consumer sales of $405.0 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 13.3% of total net sales in Fiscal 2011 compared to 11.7% in Fiscal 2010. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2011 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 3%, with mens and womens increasing by a low single digit percent. abercrombie kids increased 4%, with guys increasing by a high single digit and girls increasing by a low single digit. Hollister increased 8%, with dudes and bettys increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, the Southern and the Western regions of the U.S. were the strongest performing regions, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. From a merchandise classification standpoint, fleece, active wear, and knit tops were stronger performing categories for the male business while graphics and woven shirts were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, sweaters, and knit tops were stronger performing categories, while graphics and dresses were weaker performing categories. 41 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2011 was $2.519 billion compared to $2.212 billion during Fiscal 2010. The gross profit rate (gross profit divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 60.6%, down 320 basis points from the Fiscal 2010 rate of 63.8%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in average unit cost combined with higher markdowns. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2011 was $1.888 billion compared to $1.590 billion in Fiscal 2010. The stores and distribution expense rate (stores and distribution expense divided by net sales) for Fiscal 2011 was 45.4% compared to 45.8% in Fiscal 2010. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 28, 2012 included store related asset impairment charges of $68.0 million associated with 79 stores, asset write down charges of $14.6 million related to the reconfiguration of three flagship stores and a small write off related to a cancelled flagship project, and store exit charges of $19.0 million, associated with lease buyouts and other lease obligations related to stores closing prior to natural lease expirations, other lease terminations, and other incidental costs associated with store closures. For the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2011 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $53.6 million and $38.9 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $62.8 million and $42.8 million for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2011 was $437.1 million compared to $400.8 million in Fiscal 2010. For Fiscal 2011, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate (marketing, general and administrative expense divided by net sales) was 10.5%, compared to 11.6% for Fiscal 2010. Marketing, general and administrative expense for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 included $10.0 million in charges in connection with fourth quarter legal settlements. In addition to legal settlement charges, the increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2011 was primarily due to increases in compensation, including equity compensation, outside services, marketing, travel and IT expenses. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense, net was $3.5 million compared to other operating income, net of $10.1 million for Fiscal 2010. Other operating expense, net for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 42 Table of Contents included $13.4 million of expense related to a change in the Companys intent regarding the sale of its ARS portfolio, which resulted in recognition of an other than temporary impairment in Fiscal 2011. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense Fiscal 2011 interest expense was $7.9 million, offset by interest income of $4.3 million, compared to interest expense of $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million for Fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate for Fiscal 2011 was 32.0% compared to 34.3% for Fiscal 2010, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. As of January 28, 2012, there were approximately $25.6 million of net deferred tax assets in Japan with a valuation allowance of $2.4 million. The valuation allowance in Japan was established as the result of changes to the business configuration of operations in Japan, as well as tax law changes. The realization of the net deferred tax assets not subject to a valuation allowance is dependent upon the future generation of sufficient profits in Japan. While the Company believes it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized, it is not certain. Should circumstances change, some or all of the net deferred tax assets not currently subject to a valuation allowance may be in the future. Any increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional tax expense. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for all years presented. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2011 was $127.7 million compared to $150.3 million for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 was $1.43 compared to $1.67 for Fiscal 2010. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2011 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.49 per diluted share, asset write down charges of approximately $0.10 per diluted share, store closure and exit charges of approximately $0.13 per diluted share, legal charges of approximately $0.07 per diluted share, and other than temporary impairment charges of approximately $0.09 per diluted share related to a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS portfolio. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share. Refer to the GAAP reconciliation table in the OVERVIEW section of ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for a reconciliation of net income per diluted share on a GAAP basis to net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis, excluding charges for impairment and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the quarter and with a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. 43 Table of Contents FISCAL 2010 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2009 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2010 were $3.469 billion, an increase of 18% from Fiscal 2009 net sales of $2.929 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, a 40% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, and new stores, primarily international. The impact of foreign currency on sales for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 was less than 1% of net sales. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $2.547 billion, an increase of 7% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $2.378 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $505.1 million, an increase of 97% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $256.2 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2010, including shipping and handling revenue, were $405.0 million, an increase of 40% from Fiscal 2009 direct to consumer sales of $290.1 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.7% of total net sales in Fiscal 2010 compared to 9.9% in Fiscal 2009. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2010 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 9%, with womens increasing by a high single digit percent and mens increasing by a low double digit. abercrombie kids increased 5%, with girls and guys each increasing by a mid single digit. Hollister increased 6%, with bettys increasing by a mid single digit and dudes increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, Europe was the strongest performing region, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. For Fiscal 2010, from a comparable store sales perspective across all brands, the masculine categories out paced the feminine categories. From a merchandise classification standpoint, woven shirts, fleece, and outerwear were stronger performing categories for the male business while jeans and graphics were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, dresses, and fleece were stronger performing categories, while knit tops and jeans were weaker performing categories. Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2010 was $2.212 billion compared to $1.884 billion during Fiscal 2009. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was 63.8%, down 50 basis points from the Fiscal 2009 rate of 64.3%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by a 9% decrease in average unit retail, which was partially offset by a reduction in average unit cost. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2010 was $1.590 billion compared to $1.426 billion in Fiscal 2009. The stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was 45.8% compared to 48.7% in Fiscal 2009. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. For the fifty two weeks ended January 30, 2010, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 99 stores of $33.2 million. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy and payroll costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $38.9 million and $30.7 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $42.8 million and $34.1 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2010 was $400.8 million compared to $353.3 million in Fiscal 2009. For Fiscal 2010, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.6%, compared to 12.1% for Fiscal 2009. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits, including incentive and equity compensation, and net legal expense. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income, net for Fiscal 2010 was $10.1 million compared to $13.5 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower net gains from foreign currency denominated transactions compared to Fiscal 2009. In Fiscal 2009, other operating income also benefited from a reduction of an other than temporary impairment of $9.2 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, partially offset by a reduction of a related put option of $7.7 million. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense from Continuing Operations Fiscal 2010 interest expense was $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million, compared to interest income of $8.2 million, offset by interest expense of $6.6 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest income was primarily the result of a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due primarily to imputed interest expense related to certain store lease transactions and higher fees associated with the unsecured amended credit agreement. The effective tax rate from continuing operations for Fiscal 2010 was 34.3% compared to 33.9% for Fiscal 2009, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $78.7 million for Fiscal 2009. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. 45 Table of Contents Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2010 was $150.3 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 was $1.67 compared to $0.00 for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share associated with 26 stores and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2009 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.23 per diluted share associated with 99 stores and a loss per diluted share from discontinued operations, net of tax, of approximately $0.89. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Sources and Uses of Cash Seasonality of Cash Flows The retail business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (Spring) and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (Fall). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back to School and Holiday sales periods, particularly in the U.S. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a credit facility and the term loan agreement available as sources of additional funding. Credit Agreements On July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) under which up to $350 million will be available. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement serves to amend and restate, in its entirety, the credit agreement dated April 15, 2008 as previously amended (the Prior Credit Agreement). The primary reasons for entering into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement were to extend the termination date from April 12, 2013 to July 27, 2016 and to reduce fees and interest rates. As of March 16, 2012, the Company had approximately $350 million available under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement on January 28, 2012. The Company had $43.8 million outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement on January 29, 2011 denominated in Japanese Yen. The average interest rate was 2.4% for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has a Leverage Ratio and a Coverage Ratio. The Company was in compliance with the applicable ratio requirements and other covenants at January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is described in Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Refer to Note 21, Subsequent Event, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Stand by letters of credit outstanding on January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were immaterial. 46 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $365.2 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 compared to $391.8 million for fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by timing in tax payments, partially offset by an increase in net income adjusted for non cash items. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were used primarily for capital expenditures related to new store construction and information technology investments, as well as the acquisition of intangible assets. Cash outflows for capital expenditures were higher in Fiscal 2011 than in Fiscal 2010, due to an increase in the number of new international retail locations, including flashship locations, as well as Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology infrastructure projects. Cash inflows from investing activities were less in Fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the repurchase of A&Fs Common Stock, the payment of dividends and repayments of outstanding borrowings denominated in Japanese Yen under the Companys Prior Credit Agreement. These outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from the receipt of proceeds associated with the exercise of share based compensation awards. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of approximately $196.6 million. During the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of $76.2 million. Both the Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to the A&F Board of Directors authorization. As of January 28, 2012, A&F had approximately 6.2 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the November 20, 2007 A&F Board of Directors authorization to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock. Future Cash Requirements and Sources of Cash Over the next twelve months, the Companys primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, rent, taxes and other operating activities, as well as increasing capital expenditures and paying of quarterly dividend payments to stockholders subject to the A&F Board of Directors approval. The Company also has availability under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as a source of additional funding. In addition, on February 24, 2012, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Subject to suitable market conditions, A&F expects to continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock. The Company anticipates funding these cash requirements with available cash and as appropriate, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement. The Company is not dependent on foreign cash to fund its U.S. operations or dividends to shareholders and does not expect the need to repatriate foreign cash to meet cash needs. 47 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 28, 2012, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations Payments due by period (thousands) Operating Activities: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Operating Lease Obligations $ 3,053,632 $ 389,540 $ 745,994 $ 651,015 $ 1,267,083 Purchase Obligations 208,917 208,917 Other Obligations 44,853 15,271 18,918 2,706 7,958 Interest Related to Total Debt Totals $ 3,307,402 $ 613,728 $ 764,912 $ 653,721 $ 1,275,041 Financing Activities: Total Debt 20,917 924 2,099 2,527 15,367 Dividends Totals $ 20,917 $ 924 $ 2,099 $ 2,527 $ 15,367 Obligations for Operating Activities Operating lease obligations consist primarily of future minimum lease commitments related to store operating leases. See Note 11, Leased Facilities, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion. Operating lease obligations do not include common area maintenance (CAM), insurance, marketing or tax payments for which the Company is also obligated. Total expense related to CAM, insurance, marketing and taxes was $158.8 million in Fiscal 2011. The purchase obligations category represents purchase orders for merchandise to be delivered during Fiscal 2012 and commitments for fabric expected to be used during upcoming seasons. Other obligations consist primarily of lease termination obligations related to the closure of stores, asset retirement obligations, agreements to purchase intellectual property and information technology contracts for Fiscal 2011. See Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion of the letters of credit and construction debt. Due to uncertainty as to the amounts and timing of future payments, the contractual obligations table above does not include tax (including accrued interest and penalties) of $19.5 million related to unrecognized tax benefits at January 28, 2012. Deferred taxes are also not included in the preceding table. For further discussion, see Note 14, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The table above does not include estimated future retirement payments under the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the SERP) for the Companys Chief Executive Officer with a present value of $14.6 million at January 28, 2012. See Note 18, Retirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the description of the SERP to be 48 Table of Contents included in the text under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION in A&Fs definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012, incorporated by reference in ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Obligations for Financing Activities Total debt reflects amounts related to landlord financing obligations for certain leases where the Company is deemed the owner of the construction project for accounting purposes, as substantially all of the risk of ownership during construction of a leased property is held by the Company. The landlord financing obligation is amortized over the life of the related lease. A&F has historically paid quarterly dividends on its Common Stock. There are no amounts included in the above table related to dividends due to the fact that dividends are subject to determination and approval by A&Fs Board of Directors. 49 Table of Contents Year To Date Store Count and Gross Square Feet Store count and gross square footage by brand for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, were as follows: Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 New Closed (36 ) (27 ) (8 ) (71 ) January 28, 2012 280 154 494 18 946 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,514 727 3,373 176 6,790 International Stores January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 New 5 1 39 2 47 Closed January 28, 2012 14 5 77 3 99 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 264 59 642 23 988 Total Stores 294 159 571 21 1,045 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,778 786 4,015 199 7,778 Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 30, 2010 340 205 507 16 1,068 New 4 2 5 1 12 Remodels/Conversions (net activity) (1 ) 1 1 1 Closed (27 ) (27 ) (10 ) (64 ) January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,813 845 3,424 176 7,258 International Stores January 30, 2010 6 4 18 28 New 3 20 1 24 Closed January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 142 34 315 7 498 Total Stores 325 185 540 19 1,069 Total Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,955 879 3,739 183 7,756 50 Table of Contents CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $318.6 million, $160.9 million and $175.5 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. A summary of capital expenditures is as follows: Capital Expenditures (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 New Store Construction, Store Refreshes and Remodels $ 258.0 $ 118.0 $ 137.0 Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology 60.6 42.9 38.5 Total Capital Expenditures $ 318.6 $ 160.9 $ 175.5 During Fiscal 2012, based on new store opening plans and other capital expenditure plans, the Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $400 million. CLOSURE OF RUEHL BRANDED STORES AND RELATED DIRECT TO CONSUMER OPERATIONS On June 16, 2009, A&Fs Board of Directors approved the closure of the Companys 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recorded when the liability is incurred. During Fiscal 2011, the Company made gross cash payments totaling approximately $15.9 million, related primarily to the final lease termination agreements associated with the closure of RUEHL branded stores. Fifty Two Weeks EndedJanuary 28, 2012 Beginning Balance $ 17.2 Interest Accretion / Other, Net (1.3 ) Cash Payments (15.9 ) Ending Balance $ Recent Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Codification 820 10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, (ASC 820 10) was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfer; and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 31, 2010. The disclosure guidance adopted on January 31, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, ASC 820 10 was further amended to clarify certain disclosure requirements and improve consistency with international reporting standards. This amendment is to be applied prospectively and is effective for the Company beginning January 28, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, was amended in June 2011 to require entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive 51 Table of Contents income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendment does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income under current GAAP. This guidance is effective for the Companys fiscal year and interim periods beginning January 29, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Since actual results may differ from those estimates, the Company revises its estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available. The Company believes the following policies are the most critical to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results of operations. Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes retail sales at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. The Company reserves for sales returns through estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The value of point of sale coupons that result in a reduction of the price paid by the customer is recorded as a reduction of sales. The Company recognized direct to consumer sales based on an estimated date for customer receipt of merchandise. The Company reserves for direct to consumer sales not received by the customer based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The Company sells gift cards in its stores and through direct to consumer operations. The Company accounts for gift cards sold to customers by recognizing a liability at the time of sale. The liability remains on the Companys books until the earlier of redemption (recognized as revenue) or when the Company determines the likelihood of redemption is remote, known as breakage (recognized as other operating income), based on historical redemption patterns. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the sales return reserve and revenue recognition for gift cards over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to measure the sales return reserve or to measure the timing and amount of future gift card redemptions as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the sales return reserve as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the direct to consumer reserve for merchandise not received by the customer as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the assumption of the breakage for gift cards as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. 52 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Auction Rate Securities (ARS) As a result of the market failure and lack of liquidity in the current ARS market, the Company measures the fair value of its ARS primarily using a discounted cash flow model, as well as a comparison to similar securities in the market. Certain significant inputs into the model are unobservable in the market including the periodic coupon rate adjusted for the marketability discount, market required rate of return and expected term. While the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS securities, the Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Assuming all other assumptions disclosed in Note 7, Fair Value, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, being equal, a 50 basis point increase in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% increase in impairment and a 50 basis point decrease in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% decrease in impairment. 53 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Inventory Valuation Inventories are principally valued at the lower of average cost or market utilizing the retail method. The Company reduces inventory value by recording a valuation reserve that represents estimated future permanent markdowns necessary to sell through the inventory. The valuation reserve can fluctuate depending on the timing of markdowns previously recognized. Additionally, as part of inventory valuation, an inventory shrink estimate is made each period that reduces the value of inventory for lost or stolen items. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the shrink reserve or the valuation reserve over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the shrink reserve or valuation reserve as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the resulting gross margin(s). An increase or decrease in the valuation reserve of 10% would have affected pre tax income by approximately $7.2 million for Fiscal 2011. An increase or decrease in the inventory shrink accrual of 10% would have been immaterial to pre tax income for Fiscal 2011. 54 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Property and Equipment Long lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net asset group balances through future cash flows is in question. In addition, the Company conducts an annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. For the purposes of the annual review, the Company reviews long lived assets associated with stores that have an operating loss in the current year and have been open for at least two full years. The Companys impairment calculation requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to factors used in the evaluation for impairment, including, but not limited to, managements expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in our undiscounted future cash flow model include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine impairment loss over the past three fiscal years. During Fiscal 2011, 107 stores were tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011 as part of our annual review of all stores. Of the 107 stores tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011, 79 failed step one and were impaired. Of the 28 stores not impaired, 18 stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $10.6 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were 150% or more of this net asset group value. Ten stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $32.3 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were in the range of 105% to 150% of this net asset group value. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the assumptions underlying its impairment calculations as of January 28, 2012. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys determination of whether or not there has been an impairment. A 10% decrease in the sales assumption would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $38.0 million for Fiscal 2011. A decrease in the gross margin assumption of 10% would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $39.3 million for Fiscal 2011. 55 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach. Tax laws often require items to be included in tax filings at different times than the items are being reflected in the financial statements. A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on undistributed profits of non U.S. subsidiaries that the Company has determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with this hypothetical calculation. The Company does not expect material changes in the judgments, assumptions or interpretations used to calculate the tax provision for Fiscal 2011. However, changes in these assumptions may occur and should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys income tax provision. If the Companys intention or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. Equity Compensation Expense The Companys equity compensation expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants, which requires the Company to estimate the expected term of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants and expected future stock price volatility over the expected term. During Fiscal 2011, the Company granted stock appreciation rights covering an aggregate of 2,252,895 shares and no stock options. A 10% increase in the expected term would have yielded a 4% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year, while a 10% increase in stock price volatility would have yielded a 9% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year. 56 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Effective February 2, 2003, the Company established a Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide additional retirement income to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Subject to service requirements, the CEO will receive a monthly benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation (as defined in the SERP) for life. The final average compensation used for the calculation is based on actual compensation (base salary and actual annual cash incentive compensation) averaged over the last 36 consecutive full calendar months ending before the CEOs retirement. The Companys accrual for the SERP requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to the CEOs final average compensation, life expectancy and discount rate. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the accrual for the SERP as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% increase in final average compensation as of January 28, 2012 would increase the SERP accrual by approximately $1.5 million. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate as of January 28, 2012 would decrease the SERP accrual by an immaterial amount. Legal Contingencies The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversarial proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Actual liabilities may exceed or be less than the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 57 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Investment Securities The Company maintains its cash equivalents in financial instruments, primarily money market funds and United States treasury bills, with original maturities of three months or less. The Company also holds investments in investment grade auction rate securities (ARS) that have maturities ranging from 16 to 31 years. The par and carrying values, and related cumulative other than temporary impairment charges for the Companys available for sale marketable securities as of January 28, 2012 were as follows: ParValue Other than TemporaryImpairment CarryingValue (in thousands) Available for sale securities: Auction rate securities student loan backed $ 92,975 $ (8,325 ) $ 84,650 Auction rate securities municipal authority bonds 19,975 (5,117 ) 14,858 Total available for sale securities $ 112,950 $ (13,442 ) $ 99,508 As of January 28, 2012, approximately 46% of the Companys ARS were AAA rated, approximately 16% of the Companys ARS were AA rated, and approximately 38% of the Companys ARS were A rated, in each case as rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. The ratings take into account insurance policies guaranteeing both the principal and accrued interest. Each investment in student loans is insured by (1) the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, (2) a private insurer or (3) a combination of both. The percentage of insurance coverage of the outstanding principal and interest of the ARS varies by security. The credit ratings may change over time and would be an indicator of the default risk associated with the ARS and could have a material effect on the value of the ARS. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS, resulting in recognition of an other than temporary impairment of $13.4 million recognized in other expense. The irrevocable rabbi trust (the Rabbi Trust) is intended to be used as a source of funds to match respective funding obligations to participants in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I, the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II and the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. As of January 28, 2012, total assets held in the Rabbi Trust were $85.1 million and related to trust owned life insurance policies with a cash surrender value of $85.1 million and an immaterial amount of assets held in money market funds. The trust owned life insurance policies are recorded at cash surrender value, in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are restricted as to their use as noted above. Net realized and unrealized gains or losses related to the municipal notes and bonds held in the Rabbi Trust were not material for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. The change in cash surrender value of the trust owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust resulted in realized gains of $2.5 million and $2.3 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. Interest Rate Risks As of January 28, 2012, the Company had no long term debt outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. 58 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Rate Risk A&Fs international subsidiaries generally operate with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of, the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies affects the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as international expansion increases. A&F and its subsidiaries have exposure to changes in currency exchange rates associated with foreign currency transactions and forecasted foreign currency transactions, including the sale of inventory between subsidiaries and foreign denominated assets and liabilities. Such transactions are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen and Swiss Francs. The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to partially offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency transactions and forecasted transactions. Under this program, increases or decreases in foreign currency exposures are partially offset by gains or losses on forward contracts, to mitigate the impact of foreign currency gains or losses. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are recorded at fair value at the end of each fiscal period. 59 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for a reconciliation of net income per diluted share on a GAAP basis to net income per diluted share on a non GAAP basis, excluding charges for impairment and write downs of store related long lived assets, charges related to store closures and lease exits, and other charges associated with legal settlements during the quarter and with a change in intent regarding the Companys ARS. 43 Table of Contents FISCAL 2010 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2009 Net Sales Net sales for Fiscal 2010 were $3.469 billion, an increase of 18% from Fiscal 2009 net sales of $2.929 billion. The net sales increase was attributable to a 7% increase in comparable store sales, a 40% increase in the direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, and new stores, primarily international. The impact of foreign currency on sales for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009 was less than 1% of net sales. Total Company U.S. store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $2.547 billion, an increase of 7% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $2.378 billion. Total Company international store sales for Fiscal 2010 were $505.1 million, an increase of 97% from Fiscal 2009 sales of $256.2 million. Direct to consumer sales in Fiscal 2010, including shipping and handling revenue, were $405.0 million, an increase of 40% from Fiscal 2009 direct to consumer sales of $290.1 million. The direct to consumer business, including shipping and handling revenue, accounted for 11.7% of total net sales in Fiscal 2010 compared to 9.9% in Fiscal 2009. Comparable store sales by brand for Fiscal 2010 were as follows: Abercrombie & Fitch increased 9%, with womens increasing by a high single digit percent and mens increasing by a low double digit. abercrombie kids increased 5%, with girls and guys each increasing by a mid single digit. Hollister increased 6%, with bettys increasing by a mid single digit and dudes increasing by a high single digit. On a comparable store sales basis, Europe was the strongest performing region, while Canada and Japan were the weakest. For Fiscal 2010, from a comparable store sales perspective across all brands, the masculine categories out paced the feminine categories. From a merchandise classification standpoint, woven shirts, fleece, and outerwear were stronger performing categories for the male business while jeans and graphics were the weaker performing categories. In the female business, woven shirts, dresses, and fleece were stronger performing categories, while knit tops and jeans were weaker performing categories. Gross Profit Gross profit during Fiscal 2010 was $2.212 billion compared to $1.884 billion during Fiscal 2009. The gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was 63.8%, down 50 basis points from the Fiscal 2009 rate of 64.3%. The decrease in the gross profit rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by a 9% decrease in average unit retail, which was partially offset by a reduction in average unit cost. Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense for Fiscal 2010 was $1.590 billion compared to $1.426 billion in Fiscal 2009. The stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was 45.8% compared to 48.7% in Fiscal 2009. Stores and distribution expense for the fifty two week period ended January 29, 2011 included store related asset impairment charges associated with 26 stores of $50.6 million and store exit charges of $4.4 million associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores during the year. For the fifty two weeks ended January 30, 2010, stores and distribution expense included store related asset impairment charges associated with 99 stores of $33.2 million. 44 Table of Contents The decrease in stores and distribution expense rate for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower store occupancy and payroll costs as a percentage of net sales. Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct to consumer operations were $38.9 million and $30.7 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to the stores were $42.8 million and $34.1 million for Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. These amounts are recorded in Stores and Distribution Expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense during Fiscal 2010 was $400.8 million compared to $353.3 million in Fiscal 2009. For Fiscal 2010, the marketing, general and administrative expense rate was 11.6%, compared to 12.1% for Fiscal 2009. The increase in marketing, general and administrative expense for Fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases in compensation and benefits, including incentive and equity compensation, and net legal expense. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income, net for Fiscal 2010 was $10.1 million compared to $13.5 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease for Fiscal 2010 was primarily driven by lower net gains from foreign currency denominated transactions compared to Fiscal 2009. In Fiscal 2009, other operating income also benefited from a reduction of an other than temporary impairment of $9.2 million related to the Companys trading auction rate securities, partially offset by a reduction of a related put option of $7.7 million. Interest Expense (Income), Net and Tax Expense from Continuing Operations Fiscal 2010 interest expense was $7.8 million, offset by interest income of $4.4 million, compared to interest income of $8.2 million, offset by interest expense of $6.6 million for Fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest income was primarily the result of a lower average rate of return on investments. The increase in interest expense was due primarily to imputed interest expense related to certain store lease transactions and higher fees associated with the unsecured amended credit agreement. The effective tax rate from continuing operations for Fiscal 2010 was 34.3% compared to 33.9% for Fiscal 2009, in each year benefiting from foreign operations. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The Company completed the closure of its RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the after tax operating results appear in Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Results from discontinued operations, net of tax, were immaterial for Fiscal 2010. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $78.7 million for Fiscal 2009. Refer to Note 17, Discontinued Operations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further discussion. 45 Table of Contents Net Income and Net Income per Diluted Share Net income for Fiscal 2010 was $150.3 million compared to $0.3 million for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 was $1.67 compared to $0.00 for Fiscal 2009. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2010 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.34 per diluted share associated with 26 stores and store exit charges of approximately $0.03 per diluted share associated with the closure of 64 domestic stores. Net income per diluted share for Fiscal 2009 included store related asset impairment charges of approximately $0.23 per diluted share associated with 99 stores and a loss per diluted share from discontinued operations, net of tax, of approximately $0.89. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Historical Sources and Uses of Cash Seasonality of Cash Flows The retail business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters (Spring) and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters (Fall). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back to School and Holiday sales periods, particularly in the U.S. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a credit facility and the term loan agreement available as sources of additional funding. Credit Agreements On July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an unsecured amended and restated credit agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) under which up to $350 million will be available. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement serves to amend and restate, in its entirety, the credit agreement dated April 15, 2008 as previously amended (the Prior Credit Agreement). The primary reasons for entering into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement were to extend the termination date from April 12, 2013 to July 27, 2016 and to reduce fees and interest rates. As of March 16, 2012, the Company had approximately $350 million available under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement on January 28, 2012. The Company had $43.8 million outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement on January 29, 2011 denominated in Japanese Yen. The average interest rate was 2.4% for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement has a Leverage Ratio and a Coverage Ratio. The Company was in compliance with the applicable ratio requirements and other covenants at January 28, 2012. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is described in Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Subsequent to year end, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Refer to Note 21, Subsequent Event, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Stand by letters of credit outstanding on January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were immaterial. 46 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $365.2 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 compared to $391.8 million for fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by timing in tax payments, partially offset by an increase in net income adjusted for non cash items. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 were used primarily for capital expenditures related to new store construction and information technology investments, as well as the acquisition of intangible assets. Cash outflows for capital expenditures were higher in Fiscal 2011 than in Fiscal 2010, due to an increase in the number of new international retail locations, including flashship locations, as well as Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology infrastructure projects. Cash inflows from investing activities were less in Fiscal 2011 due to a reduction in proceeds from sales of marketable securities. Financing Activities For the fifty two week periods ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the repurchase of A&Fs Common Stock, the payment of dividends and repayments of outstanding borrowings denominated in Japanese Yen under the Companys Prior Credit Agreement. These outflows were partially offset by cash inflows from the receipt of proceeds associated with the exercise of share based compensation awards. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, A&F repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of approximately $196.6 million. During the fifty two weeks ended January 29, 2011, A&F repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock in the open market with a market value of $76.2 million. Both the Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 repurchases were pursuant to the A&F Board of Directors authorization. As of January 28, 2012, A&F had approximately 6.2 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the November 20, 2007 A&F Board of Directors authorization to repurchase 10.0 million shares of A&Fs Common Stock. Future Cash Requirements and Sources of Cash Over the next twelve months, the Companys primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, rent, taxes and other operating activities, as well as increasing capital expenditures and paying of quarterly dividend payments to stockholders subject to the A&F Board of Directors approval. The Company also has availability under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as a source of additional funding. In addition, on February 24, 2012, the Company entered into a $300 million Term Loan Agreement to take advantage of the current lending market and to increase its flexibility and liquidity. Subject to suitable market conditions, A&F expects to continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock. The Company anticipates funding these cash requirements with available cash and as appropriate, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement. The Company is not dependent on foreign cash to fund its U.S. operations or dividends to shareholders and does not expect the need to repatriate foreign cash to meet cash needs. 47 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 28, 2012, the Company did not have any off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations Payments due by period (thousands) Operating Activities: Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Operating Lease Obligations $ 3,053,632 $ 389,540 $ 745,994 $ 651,015 $ 1,267,083 Purchase Obligations 208,917 208,917 Other Obligations 44,853 15,271 18,918 2,706 7,958 Interest Related to Total Debt Totals $ 3,307,402 $ 613,728 $ 764,912 $ 653,721 $ 1,275,041 Financing Activities: Total Debt 20,917 924 2,099 2,527 15,367 Dividends Totals $ 20,917 $ 924 $ 2,099 $ 2,527 $ 15,367 Obligations for Operating Activities Operating lease obligations consist primarily of future minimum lease commitments related to store operating leases. See Note 11, Leased Facilities, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion. Operating lease obligations do not include common area maintenance (CAM), insurance, marketing or tax payments for which the Company is also obligated. Total expense related to CAM, insurance, marketing and taxes was $158.8 million in Fiscal 2011. The purchase obligations category represents purchase orders for merchandise to be delivered during Fiscal 2012 and commitments for fabric expected to be used during upcoming seasons. Other obligations consist primarily of lease termination obligations related to the closure of stores, asset retirement obligations, agreements to purchase intellectual property and information technology contracts for Fiscal 2011. See Note 15, Long Term Debt, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, for further discussion of the letters of credit and construction debt. Due to uncertainty as to the amounts and timing of future payments, the contractual obligations table above does not include tax (including accrued interest and penalties) of $19.5 million related to unrecognized tax benefits at January 28, 2012. Deferred taxes are also not included in the preceding table. For further discussion, see Note 14, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The table above does not include estimated future retirement payments under the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the SERP) for the Companys Chief Executive Officer with a present value of $14.6 million at January 28, 2012. See Note 18, Retirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the description of the SERP to be 48 Table of Contents included in the text under the caption EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION in A&Fs definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 14, 2012, incorporated by reference in ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Obligations for Financing Activities Total debt reflects amounts related to landlord financing obligations for certain leases where the Company is deemed the owner of the construction project for accounting purposes, as substantially all of the risk of ownership during construction of a leased property is held by the Company. The landlord financing obligation is amortized over the life of the related lease. A&F has historically paid quarterly dividends on its Common Stock. There are no amounts included in the above table related to dividends due to the fact that dividends are subject to determination and approval by A&Fs Board of Directors. 49 Table of Contents Year To Date Store Count and Gross Square Feet Store count and gross square footage by brand for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, were as follows: Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 New Closed (36 ) (27 ) (8 ) (71 ) January 28, 2012 280 154 494 18 946 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,514 727 3,373 176 6,790 International Stores January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 New 5 1 39 2 47 Closed January 28, 2012 14 5 77 3 99 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 264 59 642 23 988 Total Stores 294 159 571 21 1,045 Gross Square Feet at January 28, 2012 2,778 786 4,015 199 7,778 Store Activity Abercrombie & Fitch abercrombie Hollister Gilly Hicks Total U.S. Stores January 30, 2010 340 205 507 16 1,068 New 4 2 5 1 12 Remodels/Conversions (net activity) (1 ) 1 1 1 Closed (27 ) (27 ) (10 ) (64 ) January 29, 2011 316 181 502 18 1,017 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,813 845 3,424 176 7,258 International Stores January 30, 2010 6 4 18 28 New 3 20 1 24 Closed January 29, 2011 9 4 38 1 52 Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 142 34 315 7 498 Total Stores 325 185 540 19 1,069 Total Gross Square Feet at January 29, 2011 2,955 879 3,739 183 7,756 50 Table of Contents CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Capital expenditures totaled $318.6 million, $160.9 million and $175.5 million for Fiscal 2011, Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2009, respectively. A summary of capital expenditures is as follows: Capital Expenditures (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 New Store Construction, Store Refreshes and Remodels $ 258.0 $ 118.0 $ 137.0 Home Office, Distribution Centers and Information Technology 60.6 42.9 38.5 Total Capital Expenditures $ 318.6 $ 160.9 $ 175.5 During Fiscal 2012, based on new store opening plans and other capital expenditure plans, the Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $400 million. CLOSURE OF RUEHL BRANDED STORES AND RELATED DIRECT TO CONSUMER OPERATIONS On June 16, 2009, A&Fs Board of Directors approved the closure of the Companys 29 RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations. The Company completed the closure of the RUEHL branded stores and related direct to consumer operations during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009. Costs associated with exit or disposal activities are recorded when the liability is incurred. During Fiscal 2011, the Company made gross cash payments totaling approximately $15.9 million, related primarily to the final lease termination agreements associated with the closure of RUEHL branded stores. Fifty Two Weeks EndedJanuary 28, 2012 Beginning Balance $ 17.2 Interest Accretion / Other, Net (1.3 ) Cash Payments (15.9 ) Ending Balance $ Recent Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Codification 820 10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, (ASC 820 10) was amended in January 2010 to require additional disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires disclosure of transfers of assets and liabilities between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfer; and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of the assets and liabilities measured under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 31, 2010. The disclosure guidance adopted on January 31, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, ASC 820 10 was further amended to clarify certain disclosure requirements and improve consistency with international reporting standards. This amendment is to be applied prospectively and is effective for the Company beginning January 28, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, was amended in June 2011 to require entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive 51 Table of Contents income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendment does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income under current GAAP. This guidance is effective for the Companys fiscal year and interim periods beginning January 29, 2012. The Company does not expect its adoption to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Since actual results may differ from those estimates, the Company revises its estimates and assumptions as new information becomes available. The Company believes the following policies are the most critical to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results of operations. Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes retail sales at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. The Company reserves for sales returns through estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The value of point of sale coupons that result in a reduction of the price paid by the customer is recorded as a reduction of sales. The Company recognized direct to consumer sales based on an estimated date for customer receipt of merchandise. The Company reserves for direct to consumer sales not received by the customer based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable. The Company sells gift cards in its stores and through direct to consumer operations. The Company accounts for gift cards sold to customers by recognizing a liability at the time of sale. The liability remains on the Companys books until the earlier of redemption (recognized as revenue) or when the Company determines the likelihood of redemption is remote, known as breakage (recognized as other operating income), based on historical redemption patterns. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the sales return reserve and revenue recognition for gift cards over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to measure the sales return reserve or to measure the timing and amount of future gift card redemptions as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the sales return reserve as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the direct to consumer reserve for merchandise not received by the customer as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. A 10% change in the assumption of the breakage for gift cards as of January 28, 2012 would have affected pre tax income by an immaterial amount for Fiscal 2011. 52 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Auction Rate Securities (ARS) As a result of the market failure and lack of liquidity in the current ARS market, the Company measures the fair value of its ARS primarily using a discounted cash flow model, as well as a comparison to similar securities in the market. Certain significant inputs into the model are unobservable in the market including the periodic coupon rate adjusted for the marketability discount, market required rate of return and expected term. While the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS securities, the Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Assuming all other assumptions disclosed in Note 7, Fair Value, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, being equal, a 50 basis point increase in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% increase in impairment and a 50 basis point decrease in the market required rate of return would yield approximately a 15% decrease in impairment. 53 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Inventory Valuation Inventories are principally valued at the lower of average cost or market utilizing the retail method. The Company reduces inventory value by recording a valuation reserve that represents estimated future permanent markdowns necessary to sell through the inventory. The valuation reserve can fluctuate depending on the timing of markdowns previously recognized. Additionally, as part of inventory valuation, an inventory shrink estimate is made each period that reduces the value of inventory for lost or stolen items. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the shrink reserve or the valuation reserve over the past three fiscal years. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the shrink reserve or valuation reserve as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could significantly impact the ending inventory valuation at cost, as well as the resulting gross margin(s). An increase or decrease in the valuation reserve of 10% would have affected pre tax income by approximately $7.2 million for Fiscal 2011. An increase or decrease in the inventory shrink accrual of 10% would have been immaterial to pre tax income for Fiscal 2011. 54 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Property and Equipment Long lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that full recoverability of net asset group balances through future cash flows is in question. In addition, the Company conducts an annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of each year. For the purposes of the annual review, the Company reviews long lived assets associated with stores that have an operating loss in the current year and have been open for at least two full years. The Companys impairment calculation requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to factors used in the evaluation for impairment, including, but not limited to, managements expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in our undiscounted future cash flow model include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. The Company has not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine impairment loss over the past three fiscal years. During Fiscal 2011, 107 stores were tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011 as part of our annual review of all stores. Of the 107 stores tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2011, 79 failed step one and were impaired. Of the 28 stores not impaired, 18 stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $10.6 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were 150% or more of this net asset group value. Ten stores, with an aggregate net asset group value of $32.3 million, had undiscounted cash flows which were in the range of 105% to 150% of this net asset group value. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the assumptions underlying its impairment calculations as of January 28, 2012. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys determination of whether or not there has been an impairment. A 10% decrease in the sales assumption would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $38.0 million for Fiscal 2011. A decrease in the gross margin assumption of 10% would have increased the impairment charge by approximately $39.3 million for Fiscal 2011. 55 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach. Tax laws often require items to be included in tax filings at different times than the items are being reflected in the financial statements. A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on undistributed profits of non U.S. subsidiaries that the Company has determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability on these unremitted earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with this hypothetical calculation. The Company does not expect material changes in the judgments, assumptions or interpretations used to calculate the tax provision for Fiscal 2011. However, changes in these assumptions may occur and should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on the Companys income tax provision. If the Companys intention or U.S. tax law changes in the future, there may be a significant negative impact on the provision for income taxes to record an incremental tax liability in the period the change occurs. Equity Compensation Expense The Companys equity compensation expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights is estimated using the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants, which requires the Company to estimate the expected term of the stock option and stock appreciation right grants and expected future stock price volatility over the expected term. During Fiscal 2011, the Company granted stock appreciation rights covering an aggregate of 2,252,895 shares and no stock options. A 10% increase in the expected term would have yielded a 4% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year, while a 10% increase in stock price volatility would have yielded a 9% increase in the Black Scholes valuation for stock appreciation rights granted during the year. 56 Table of Contents Policy Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Effective February 2, 2003, the Company established a Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan to provide additional retirement income to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Subject to service requirements, the CEO will receive a monthly benefit equal to 50% of his final average compensation (as defined in the SERP) for life. The final average compensation used for the calculation is based on actual compensation (base salary and actual annual cash incentive compensation) averaged over the last 36 consecutive full calendar months ending before the CEOs retirement. The Companys accrual for the SERP requires management to make assumptions and judgments related to the CEOs final average compensation, life expectancy and discount rate. The Company does not expect material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the accrual for the SERP as of January 28, 2012. However, changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, the Company may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% increase in final average compensation as of January 28, 2012 would increase the SERP accrual by approximately $1.5 million. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate as of January 28, 2012 would decrease the SERP accrual by an immaterial amount. Legal Contingencies The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversarial proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where it deems appropriate to do so under applicable accounting rules. Actual liabilities may exceed or be less than the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 57 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Investment Securities The Company maintains its cash equivalents in financial instruments, primarily money market funds and United States treasury bills, with original maturities of three months or less. The Company also holds investments in investment grade auction rate securities (ARS) that have maturities ranging from 16 to 31 years. The par and carrying values, and related cumulative other than temporary impairment charges for the Companys available for sale marketable securities as of January 28, 2012 were as follows: ParValue Other than TemporaryImpairment CarryingValue (in thousands) Available for sale securities: Auction rate securities student loan backed $ 92,975 $ (8,325 ) $ 84,650 Auction rate securities municipal authority bonds 19,975 (5,117 ) 14,858 Total available for sale securities $ 112,950 $ (13,442 ) $ 99,508 As of January 28, 2012, approximately 46% of the Companys ARS were AAA rated, approximately 16% of the Companys ARS were AA rated, and approximately 38% of the Companys ARS were A rated, in each case as rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. The ratings take into account insurance policies guaranteeing both the principal and accrued interest. Each investment in student loans is insured by (1) the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, (2) a private insurer or (3) a combination of both. The percentage of insurance coverage of the outstanding principal and interest of the ARS varies by security. The credit ratings may change over time and would be an indicator of the default risk associated with the ARS and could have a material effect on the value of the ARS. During the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012, the Company changed its intent regarding the sale of its ARS, resulting in recognition of an other than temporary impairment of $13.4 million recognized in other expense. The irrevocable rabbi trust (the Rabbi Trust) is intended to be used as a source of funds to match respective funding obligations to participants in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan I, the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Nonqualified Savings and Supplemental Retirement Plan II and the Chief Executive Officer Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. As of January 28, 2012, total assets held in the Rabbi Trust were $85.1 million and related to trust owned life insurance policies with a cash surrender value of $85.1 million and an immaterial amount of assets held in money market funds. The trust owned life insurance policies are recorded at cash surrender value, in Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are restricted as to their use as noted above. Net realized and unrealized gains or losses related to the municipal notes and bonds held in the Rabbi Trust were not material for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011. The change in cash surrender value of the trust owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust resulted in realized gains of $2.5 million and $2.3 million for the fifty two weeks ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively. Interest Rate Risks As of January 28, 2012, the Company had no long term debt outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. 58 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Rate Risk A&Fs international subsidiaries generally operate with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the Company must translate revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities from functional currencies into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during, or at the end of, the reporting period. The fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies affects the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as international expansion increases. A&F and its subsidiaries have exposure to changes in currency exchange rates associated with foreign currency transactions and forecasted foreign currency transactions, including the sale of inventory between subsidiaries and foreign denominated assets and liabilities. Such transactions are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Danish Kroner, Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, Japanese Yen and Swiss Francs. The Company has established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to partially offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency transactions and forecasted transactions. Under this program, increases or decreases in foreign currency exposures are partially offset by gains or losses on forward contracts, to mitigate the impact of foreign currency gains or losses. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation. All outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are recorded at fair value at the end of each fiscal period. 59 Table of Contents 
 
