FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20020807161522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 7, 2002 FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. Delaware 1-9916 74-2480931 (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification incorporation or Number) organization) 1615 Poydras Street New Orleans, Louisiana 70112 Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (504) 582-4000 Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. The principal executive officer and principal financial officer of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. each are filing statements under oath regarding facts and circumstances relating to exchange act filings (see exhibits 99.1 and 99.2). SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC. By: /s/ Kathleen L. Quirk ------------------------------ Kathleen L. Quirk Treasurer and Vice President Date: August 7, 2002 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Exhibit Index Exhibit Number 99.1 "Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings" signed by James R. Moffett and dated August 7, 2002. 99.2 "Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings" signed by Richard C. Adkerson and dated August 6, 2002.

OMB Number: 3235-0569 Expires: January 31, 2003 Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings State of Louisiana Parish of Orleans I, James R. Moffett, Chief Executive Officer of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., state and attest that: (1)To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: * no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and * no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with Freeport- McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.'s audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": * the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission for the year ended December 31, 2001 of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.; * all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10- K identified above; and * any amendments to any of the foregoing. Subscribed and sworn to before me this 7th day of August, 2002. /s/ James R. Moffett /s/ Douglas N. Currault II - ------------------------ ------------------------- James R. Moffett Notary Public My Commission Expires: Life Date: August 7, 2002

OMB Number: 3235-0569 Expires: January 31, 2003 Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Regarding Facts and Circumstances Relating to Exchange Act Filings State of Louisiana Parish of Orleans I, Richard C. Adkerson, Chief Financial Officer of Freeport- McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., state and attest that: (1)To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: * no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and * no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with Freeport- McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.'s audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": * the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission for the year ended December 31, 2001 of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.; * all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10- K identified above; and * any amendments to any of the foregoing. Subscribed and sworn to before me this 6th day of August, 2002. /s/Richard C. Adkerson /s/ Douglas N. Currault II - ----------------------- ------------------------- Richard C. Adkerson Notary Public My Commission Expires: Life Date: August 6, 2002


