FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20031208112229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
           Delaware   
  1-9916
                      74-2480931
       (State or other
            
(Commission
            
        (IRS Employer
        jurisdiction of
           
  File Number)
      
         Identification
        incorporation or
      
         Number)
        organization)
Item 5.  
Other Events.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. issued a press release dated December 8, 2003, announcing that the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources (DEMR) has completed its review of the October 9, 2003 pit wall slippage at PT Freeport Indonesia's Grasberg mining operations in Papua, Indonesia and DEMR has approved the return to normal mining operations (see Exhibit 99).
                                
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.     
     ----------------------------------------
           C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
      Vice President and Controller -
         Financial Reporting
         (authorized signatory and
        Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  December 8, 2003
Exhibit
Number
99
Press release dated December 8, 2003, titled "Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Receives Approval to Return to Normal Mining Operations."

 
NEW ORLEANS, LA, December 8, 2003  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. announced today that the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources (DEMR) has completed its review of the October 9, 2003 pit wall slippage at PT Freeport Indonesia's (PT-FI) Grasberg mining operations in Papua, Indonesia and DEMR has approved the return to normal mining operations.  PT-FI is on track to achieve its previously reported estimated 2003 adjusted annual sales of 1.33 billion pounds of copper and 2.45 million ounces of gold.
  
FCX explores for, develops, mines and processes ore containing copper, gold and silver in Indonesia, and smelts and refines copper concentrates in Spain and Indonesia.  
Cautionary Statement:
 This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated sales volumes and the impact of copper and gold price changes.  Accuracy of the projections depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the projections in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the projections more frequently than quarterly. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include industry risks, commodity p rices, Indonesian political risks, weather-related risks, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


