FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20030117115533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
           Delaware   
  1-9916
          74-2480931
       (State or other
            
(Commission
            
        (IRS Employer
        jurisdiction of
           
  File Number)
      
         Identification
        incorporation or
      
         Number)
        organization)
Item 5.  
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated January 16, 2003 announcing its fourth-quarter 2002 and twelve-months 2002 results (see exhibit 99.1).
FCX amended its bank credit facilities (a copy of the amendment is attached as Exhibit 99.2) to permit the redemption of its series I gold-denominated preferred stock, which has a mandatory redemption date of August 1, 2003.  The new amendment will not be effective unless FCX sells a minimum of $250 million principal amount of senior notes due 2010.  In accordance with the new amendment, FCX will use the net proceeds from the sale of such notes to repay borrowings under its bank credit facilities, with the excess to be invested in short term investments.
The new amendment requires FCX to reduce commitments under its bank credit facilities pro rata by an amount equal to 100% of the net proceeds of this offering greater than $200 million and not more than $300 million, and by an amount equal to 75% of any net proceeds in excess of $300 million.  In addition, the new amendment requires FCX to reserve $200 million of availability under its bank credit facilities until it redeems the series I gold-denominated preferred stock.  If FCX does not borrow at least the full $200 million under the bank credit facilities to redeem the series I gold-denominated preferred stock, it must reduce commitments under the facilities pro rata by 75% of the portion of the $200 million it does not borrow, and the remaining 25% will become available for general corporate purposes.
                                
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
     ----------------------------------------
           C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
      Vice President and Controller -
         Financial Reporting
         (authorized signatory and
        Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  January 17, 2003
Exhibit
Number
4
Amendment dated as of December 17, 2002 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 19, 2001, as amended, among FCX, PT Freeport Indonesia, the Lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, a New York banking corporation, as administrative agent for the Lenders.
99
Press release dated January 16, 2003 titled "Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Reports Strong Fourth-Quarter/Twelve-Months 2002 Results."

CONFORMED COPY
AMENDMENT dated as of December 17, 2002 (this "Amendment") to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 19, 2001, as amended (the "Credit Agreement"), among FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC., a Delaware Corporation ("FCX"), PT FREEPORT INDONESIA, a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia and domesticated under the laws of Delaware ("PTFI" and together with FCX, the "Borrowers"), the Lenders party thereto, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, a New York banking corporation ("JPMCB"), as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent").
WHEREAS pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders  have extended credit to the Borrowers, and have agreed to extend credit to the Borrowers, in each case pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein;
WHEREAS the Borrowers have informed the Administrative Agent that FCX proposes to issue and sell on or prior to June 30, 2003 in a public offering, Rule 144A or other private placement transaction senior unsecured notes for gross cash proceeds of not less than $250,000,000;
WHEREAS in connection with the issuance and sale of such senior unsecured notes, the Borrowers have requested that the Lenders approve amendments to certain provisions of the Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Lenders are willing, on the terms, subject to the conditions and to the extent set forth below, to amend such provisions; and
WHEREAS capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the agreements, provisions and covenants herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, as follows:
SECTION 1.    Effective as of the December 2002 Amendment Effective Date (as defined in Section 3 hereof), the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments.
(a)  The following definitions are added to Section 1.01 in their appropriate alphabetical positions:
"" means the Amendment to this Agreement dated as of December 17, 2002.
December 2002 Amendment
"" shall mean the date on which the December 2002 Amendment becomes effective in accordance with its terms.
December 2002 Amendment Effective Date
"" means the initial $200,000,000 of Net Proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes.
Gold Preferred Net Proceeds
"" means the redemption, repurchase, restructuring or refinancing pursuant to a Qualifying Gold Preferred Restructuring of (i) all shares of Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock or (ii) at least 80% of the shares of Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock and the election by FCX under this clause (ii) pursuant to notice given to the Administrative Agent to deem the refinancing of the Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock completed.
Gold Preferred Refinancing
"" means Revolving Commitments with respect to Revolving Loans repaid on the Senior Notes Closing Date using the Gold Preferred Net Proceeds pending the application of the Gold Preferred Net Proceeds to redeem or repurchase Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock.
Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments
"" means an amount equal to the Net Proceeds from the issuance of  Senior Notes for gross proceeds of up to $300,000,000 minus the amount of the Gold Preferred Net Proceeds.  
Initial Senior Note Reduction Amount
"" means FM Services Company, Atlantic Copper, S.A., Copper Overseas Service Company, International Administrative Services Company, Overseas Service Company, PT Mineserve International and/or Crescent Technology Inc., as applicable.
Option-Affiliated Entity
"" means senior unsecured notes of FCX, to be issued and sold in a public offering, Rule 144A or other private placement transaction after January 1, 2003 and on or prior to June 30, 2003, for gross cash proceeds of at least $250,000,000 which (i) are not Guaranteed by any Subsidiaries, (ii) are not secured by any assets of FCX or any Subsidiaries, (iii) do not mature and are not subject to amortization or (except for customary change in control repurchase obligations) subject to repurchase prior to the date that is six months after the Maturity Date, and (iv) rank with FCX's other senior unsecured Indebtedness governed by indentures.
Senior Notes
pari
passu
"" means the date on or prior to June 30, 2003 on which the sale of the Senior Notes is consummated.
Senior Notes Closing Date
(b)  Clause (a) of the definition of "Debt Issuance" in Section 1.01 is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"(a) the incurrence by either Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Indebtedness other than Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01(a)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) or (viii) and other than (x) Indebtedness incurred and the proceeds of which are used to refinance the Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock pursuant to a Qualifying Gold Preferred Restructuring and (y) that portion of the Senior Notes the Net Proceeds of which are used to redeem or repurchase Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.08(a) and".
(c)
The definition of "Discretionary Funds" in Section 1.01 is amended by adding the following to the end thereof:
"Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) no Gold Preferred Net Proceeds used (including pursuant to borrowings of Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments) to repurchase or redeem Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock will give rise to any Discretionary Funds and (ii) 25% of the Net Proceeds attributable to the sale of Senior Notes for gross proceeds in excess of $300,000,000 and 25% of any remaining Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments at the time a Gold Preferred Refinancing has been achieved, shall constitute Discretionary Funds when and to the extent that Reductions in an amount equal to 75% of such portion of such Net Proceeds or remaining Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments, as the case may be, shall have been made at a time when no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing."
(d)
The definition of "Equity Issuance" in Section 1.01 is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
""" means the issuance by either Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Equity Interests, or the receipt by either Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary of any capital contribution, other than (a) any such issuance of Equity Interests to, or receipt of any such capital contribution from, (i) a Borrower, (ii) a Restricted Subsidiary or (iii) an employee, officer or director of either Borrower, a Restricted Subsidiary, an Option-Affiliated Entity or any other Affiliate of either Borrower upon such employee's, officer's or director's exercise of any stock option granted in the ordinary course of business pursuant to a stock option plan approved by FCX's board of directors and with cumulative Net Proceeds in an aggregate amount not in excess of $7,500,000 during any Semi-Annual Period and (b) any such issuance of Equity Interests issued to refinance, and the proceeds of which ar e used to refinance, the Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock in a Qualifying Gold Preferred Restructuring."
Equity Issuance
(e)
The definition of "Excess Cash Flow" in Section 1.01 is amended by (i) deleting the word "and" at the end of clause (h)(i) thereof and substituting therefor a comma, (ii) adding the words "and (iii) the amount of proceeds from an Equity Issuance to an employee, officer or director of either Borrower, a Restricted Subsidiary, an Option-Affiliated Entity or any other Affiliate of either Borrower pursuant to such employee's, officer's or director's exercise of any stock option granted in the ordinary course of business pursuant to a stock option plan approved by FCX's board of directors and with cumulative Net Proceeds in an aggregate amount not in excess of $7,500,000" immediately after clause (h)(ii) thereof, (iii) deleting the words "such period" from clause (j) thereof and substituting therefor the words "any period after the Tranche B Commitment Reduction Date," and (i v) deleting the words "such period" from clause (k) thereof and substituting therefor the words "any period after the Tranche B Commitment Reduction Date".
(f)
The definition of "Non-Flow Reborrowing" in Section 1.01 is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "Section 2.03(b)" thereof and substituting therefor a new reference to "Section 2.03(a)(i)".
(g)
The definition of "Qualifying Gold Preferred Restructuring" in Section 1.01 is amended by adding the words "on or" immediately before the words "prior to August 1, 2003", redesignating clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) as clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv), respectively, and adding a new clause (i) immediately before redesignated clause (ii) to read as follows:
"(i) repurchased or redeemed with Gold Preferred Net Proceeds in accordance with Section 6.08(a)(any such repurchase or redemption being deemed approved by the Administrative Agent),"
(h)  Section 2.01 is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph (d) thereto to read as follows:
"(d)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, from the Senior Notes Closing Date until the date on which a Gold Preferred Refinancing occurs, the Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments may not be utilized except for the purpose of repurchasing or redeeming (within three Business Days of any Borrowing) shares of Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.08(a), and any Borrowing Request that seeks to utilize the Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments during such period shall specify the amount of Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock to be purchased or redeemed with the proceeds of the requested Borrowing, the date of any such purchase or redemption and the applicable purchase or redemption prices.  On the date on which a Gold Preferred Refinancing occurs, and subject to the Borrowers effecting any Reductions required to be made on such date pursuant to Section 2.10(c), the fo regoing restrictions on the Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments shall automatically terminate and be of no further force or effect."
(i)
Section 2.10(c) is hereby amended by adding the following to the end thereof:
"Notwithstanding the foregoing and notwithstanding the provisions of any other paragraph of this Section, on the Senior Notes Closing Date the Borrowers will effect Reductions of the Tranche 1 Term Loans and the Revolving Commitments, pro rata in accordance with the amounts thereof, in an aggregate amount equal to the Initial Senior Note Reduction Amount.  In addition, (i) on the Senior Notes Closing Date the Borrowers will effect additional Reductions in the Facilities in an amount equal to 75% of the Net Proceeds attributable to the issuance of Senior Notes for gross proceeds in excess of $300,000,000 and (ii) on the date that a Gold Preferred Refinancing is achieved, the Borrowers will effect additional Reductions in the Facilities in an amount equal to 75% of any remaining Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments on such date (and Reductions in respect of Gold Preferred Net Proceeds need not be effected prio r to such date); , , that any Reductions pursuant to clause (i) or clause (ii) of this sentence will be subject to paragraph (e) of this Section."
provided
however
(j)  Section 2.10(e) is hereby amended by (i) adding, immediately after the first reference therein to "Debt Issuances" the following: "(other than that portion of the Senior Notes giving rise to the Initial Senior Note Reduction Amount)" and (ii) adding the words "and plus, in the case of any Reduction that would occur prior to August 1, 2003, the amount of any undrawn Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments" to the end of the second sentence thereof.
(k)
Section 2.10 is hereby further amended by adding the following paragraph (l) to the end thereof as follows:
"(l) On the Senior Notes Closing Date, all Net Proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes not utilized to repay Tranche 1 Term Loans on such date, including the Gold Preferred Net Proceeds, will be applied to the repayment of outstanding Revolving Loans."
(l)
Section 5.01(c) is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "Section 5.03(a)" from clause (vii) thereof and substituting therefor a new reference to "Section 5.03".
(m)
Section 5.11 is hereby amended by adding to the end thereof the following:
"Until a Gold Preferred Refinancing has occurred, the Borrowers will use the proceeds of Revolving Loans made pursuant to the Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments solely to redeem or repurchase Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement."   
(n)
Section 6.01(a)(iv) is hereby amended by deleting the amount "$50,000,000" in the proviso at the end thereof and substituting therefor the amount "$75,000,000".
(o)
Section 6.05(g) is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "clause (d)" therein and substituting therefor the new reference to "clause (g)".
(p)
Section 6.08(a) is hereby amended by (i) deleting the word "and", and inserting a comma, at the end of clause (iv) thereof, (ii) deleting the semicolon, and substituting therefor a comma, at the end of clause (v) thereof, (iii) deleting the proviso at the end thereof and (iv) adding at the end thereof the following:
"(provided, however, that until a Gold Preferred Refinancing has occurred, any cash redemption of Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock shall be effected only with the proceeds of Revolving Loans made pursuant to the Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments so long as any Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments remain undrawn), (vi) so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, or result therefrom, FCX may (I) repurchase Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock with the proceeds of Revolving Loans made pursuant to the Gold Preferred Reserved Commitments at prices no greater than the redemption price that would apply under the terms thereof based on a gold price equal to the August 2003 futures price of gold in effect at the time of any repurchase or (II) otherwise effect a Qualifying Gold Preferred Restructuring, (vii) so long as no Default or Event of Default shall have occ urred and be continuing or result therefrom, (I) FCX may use Discretionary Funds in an aggregate amount up to $50,000,000 to effect repurchases of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock and (II) FCX may pay cash inducements to holders of Convertible Notes to cause such holders to exercise their option to convert such Convertible Notes in an aggregate amount equal to $25,000,000 plus the remaining amount of the interest reserve for the Convertible Notes allocable to Convertible Notes so converted."
(q)
Section 6.10 is hereby amended by deleting the amount "$35,000,000" in subpart (ii) of clause (iii) of the proviso thereof and substituting therefor the amount "$75,000,000".
SECTION 2.    Each of the Borrowers represents and warrants to each of the Lenders that (a) the representations and warranties of the Borrowers set forth in the Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of this Amendment, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date (in which case such representations and warranties are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date) and (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Representations and Warranties.
SECTION 3.    This Amendment shall become effective as of the first date on or prior to June 30, 2003, on which the following conditions have been satisfied:
Conditions to Effectiveness.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received duly executed counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders;
(b) All legal matters incident to this Amendment shall be satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the December 2002 Amendment Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrowers hereunder or under any other Loan Document, such expenses to include the legal fees of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, counsel to the Administrative Agent;
(d)(i) FCX shall have issued and sold the Senior Notes for gross cash proceeds of at least $250,000,000, (ii) the Reductions in the Facilities and repayments of Revolving Loans required by the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, to be made on the Senior Notes Closing Date shall have been made and (iii) the amendment dated as of July 17, 2002 to the Credit Agreement shall not have become effective;
(e) The terms and conditions of the Senior Notes shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (provided that the Senior Notes may bear interest at a market rate determined at the time of pricing).  The Senior Notes may contain customary pari passu lien restrictions provided that they will permit Indebtedness under bank credit facilities, including the Credit Agreement, in an aggregate amount of not less than that previously agreed to with the Administrative Agent to be secured by any and all assets of FCX and its Subsidiaries;
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion of Jones, Walker, Waechter, Poitevent, Carrere & Denegre L.L.P., counsel to the Borrowers, in a form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (i) dated the December 2002 Amendment Effective Date, (ii) addressed to the Lenders and (iii) covering such matters relating to this Amendment and the transactions contemplated thereby, as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, and each of the Borrowers hereby instructs such counsel to deliver such opinions; and
(g) the amendment fee referred to in Section 4 hereof shall have been paid.
SECTION 4.    In consideration of the agreements of the Lenders contained herein, the Borrowers agree to pay to each Lender, through the Administrative Agent, an amendment fee (the "Amendment Fee") equal to 0.25% of the sum of (a) the outstanding Term Loans of such Lender and (b) the Revolving Commitment (whether used or unused) of such Lender, in each case after giving effect to the reductions in Term Loans and Revolving Commitments on the Senior Notes Closing Date, that such Lender approves this Amendment and returns to the Administrative Agent or its counsel an executed signature page hereto no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on December 17, 2002.  The Amendment Fee shall be payable to the Agent, for the accounts of the Lenders entitled thereto, in immediately available funds on the December 2002 Amendment Effective Date.  Once paid, the Amendment Fee shall not be refundable.
Amendment Fee.
provided
SECTION 5.    
Applicable law.
THIS DECEMBER 2002 AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
SECTION 6.    The headings of this Amendment are for purposes of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC.,
by
 
     
/s/ Kathleen L. Quirk    
    
     
Name:  Kathleen L. Quirk
     
Title: Vice President & Treasurer
PT FREEPORT INDONESIA,
by
  
      
/s/ Robert R. Boyce           
 
     Name:  Robert R. Boyce
                Title: Treasurer
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK (formerly known
as The Chase Manhattan Bank),
Individually and as Administrative
Agent, Security Agent, JAA Security
Agent and Documentary Agent
by
/s/ James H. Ramage           
Name:  James H. Ramage
Title: Managing Director
ABN AMRO BANK N.V.
by
/s/ William M. Guilford       
Name:  William M. Guilford
    
Title: Senior Vice President
/s/ Richard A. McLean         
Name:  Richard A. McLean
Title: Senior Vice President
ARAB BANKING CORPORATION
by
/s/ Robert J. Ivosevich       
Name:  Robert J. Ivosevich
Title: Deputy General Manager
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP LIMITED
by
/s/ John Wade                 
Name:  John Wade
Title: Director, Global
  Structured Finance
BANK OF AMERICA, LONDON
by
/s/ P.D. Young                
Name:  P.D. Young
Title: Managing Director
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
by
/s/ Timothy C. Hintz          
Name:  Timothy C. Hintz
Title: Managing Director
BANK OF MONTREAL
by
/s/ Thomas E. McGraw           
Name:  Thomas E. McGraw
Title: Vice President
THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA
by
/s/ William E. Zarrett        
Name:  William E. Zarrett
Title: Managing Director
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD
by
/s/ John McGhee               
Name:  John McGhee
Title: Vice President & Manager
BANK ONE, NA
by
/s/ John A. Horst             
Name:  John A. Horst
Title: Director
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA NEW YORK AGENCY
by
/s/ Wibowo Notosuwarto        
Name:  Wibowo Notosuwarto
Title: General Manager
BARCLAYS BANK PLC
by
/s/ James McCarthy            
Name:  James McCarthy
Title: Director
BAYERISCHE HYPO UND VEREINSBANK A.G. NY BRANCH
by
/s/ Andrew E. Leon            
Name:  Andrew E. Leon
Title: Director
/s/ Stuart Endacott           
Name:  Stuart Endacott
Title: Portfolio Manager
BNP PARIBAS
by
/s/ Douglas R. Liftman        
Name:  Douglas R. Liftman
Title: Managing Director
/s/  Betsy Jocher             
Name:  Betsy Jocher
Title: Vice President
THE CHUO MITSUI TRUST & BANKING
COMPANY, LIMITED
by
/s/ Yasuo Hiroe               
Name:  Yasuo Hiroe
Title: General Manager
DEUTSCHE BANK AG ACING THROUGH ITS SINGAPORE OFFICE
by
/s/ Adeline Chua              
Name:  Adeline Chua
Title: Vice President
/s/ Soon-Heng Low             
Name:  Soon-Heng Low
Title: Senior Legal Counsel
DRESDNER BANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES
by
/s/ Fred Thurston             
Name:  Fred Thurston
Title: Vice President
/s/ Bill C. Schor             
Name:  Bill C. Schor
Title: Associate
HIBERNIA NATIONAL BANK
by
/s/ Guy P. Brierre            
Name: Guy P. Brierre
Title: Senior Vice President
HSBC BANK USA
by
/s/ Richard J. Ward           
Name: Richard J. Ward
Title: First Vice President
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD.
by
/s/ Toru Maeda                
Name:  Toru Maeda
Title: General Manager
THE NORINCHUKIN BANK, NY
by
/s/ Fumiaki Ono
   
Name:  Fumiaki Ono
Title: General Manager
PT BANK NEGARA INDONESIA (PENSERO) TBK.
by
/s/ Bomen Lumbanraja          
Name:  Bomen Lumbanraja
Title: General Manager
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
by
/s/ David Apps                
Name:  David Apps
Title: Senior Vice President
SOCIT GENRALE
by
/s/ Chris Henstock            
Name:  Chris Henstock
Title: Vice President
SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION
by
/s/ Leo E. Pagarigan          
Name:  Leo E. Pagarigan
Title: Senior Vice President
UBS AG, STAMFORD BRANCH
by
/s/ Wilfred V. Saint          
Name:  Wilfred V. Saint
Title: Associate Director,
 
Banking Products
 
Services, US
/s/ Thomas R. Salzano         
Name:  Thomas R. Salzano
Title: Director, Banking
Products Services, US
UFJ BANK LIMITED
by
/s/ John T. Feeney            
Name:  John T. Feeney
Title: Vice President
WESTLB AG (f/k/a WESTDEUTSCHE LANDESBANK GIROZENTRALE), NEW YORK BRANCH
by
/s/ Salvatore Battinelli      
Name:  Savatore Battinelli
Title: Managing Director
/s/ Richard J. Pearse         
Name:  Richard J. Pearse
Title: Executive Director

 
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Reports
Strong Fourth-Quarter/Twelve-Months 2002 Results
-
Low Net Unit Production Costs
- Significant Operating Cash Flow and Net Debt Reduction
- Additions to Proven and Probable Reserves
HIGHLIGHTS
Fourth-quarter 2002 net income of $64.1 million, $0.41 per share vs. fourth-quarter 2001 net loss of $2.1 million, $0.01 per share
Twelve-months 2002 net income of $127.1 million, $0.87 per share vs. twelve-months 2001 net income of $76.5 million, $0.53 per share
Average unit net cash production costs: $0.03 per pound for fourth quarter and $0.08 per pound for twelve-months 2002
Operating cash flow: $208.5 million for fourth quarter and $512.7 million for twelve-months 2002; Net debt reductions: $147.9 million for fourth quarter and $278.2 million for twelve-months 2002
Additions to aggregate proven and probable reserves for the Grasberg mineral district were 86.6 million metric tons of ore; PT-FI's reserve additions were 1.5 billion pounds of copper and 0.6 million ounces of gold
a)  2002 results reflect FCX's 90.6 percent ownership interest in its Indonesian mining unit, PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), compared with its 85.9 percent ownership interest in 2001.
b)  Reflects accounting change for depreciation of mining and milling assets, effective January 1, 2002.
c)  Diluted net income per share for the fourth-quarter 2002 reflects assumed conversion of FCX's 8 1/4% Convertible Senior Notes, resulting in the exclusion of $12.6 million of interest expense and the inclusion of 42.2 million common shares.  The convertible notes had no dilutive effect in the twelve-months 2002 period or the 2001 periods.
NEW ORLEANS, LA, January 16, 2003 -- Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported fourth-quarter 2002 net income applicable to common stock of $64.1 million, $0.41 per share, compared with a fourth-quarter 2001 net loss of $2.1 million, $0.01 per share.  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2002, FCX reported net income applicable to common stock of $127.1 million, $0.87 per share, including the cumulative effect of an accounting change charge of $3.0 million, $0.02 per share, compared with net income of $76.5 million, $0.53 per share, a year ago.  
Mr. James R. Moffett, Chairman and CEO of FCX, said,  "Our mining operations continue to achieve outstanding results.  We set multiple operating records throughout the year and strengthened our position as a premier mining company.  Our results continue to demonstrate that the Grasberg mine is a world-class asset providing real value for our shareholders.  Our low-cost, high-volume operations allowed us to generate significant cash flows and reduce net debt in 2002 by nearly $280 million, strengthening our financial position.  Our outlook for 2003 is positive as we expect to continue strong operations at our Grasberg mine."
PT-FI PRODUCTION AND SALES   
PT-FI reported improved copper production and sales in the 2002 periods, reflecting the continued mining of higher grade ore which began late in the second quarter of 2002.  Copper production and sales volumes for the twelve-month 2002 period were annual records.  Fourth-quarter 2002 copper ore grades averaged 1.23 percent, compared with 0.89 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001; twelve-months 2002 copper ore grades averaged 1.14 percent, compared with 1.00 percent in the twelve-months 2001 period.
 Gold sales of 2.3 million ounces for 2002 exceeded previous estimates of 2.25 million ounces reflecting higher ore grades and mill recovery rates.  In the fourth quarter of 2002, ore milled averaged 1.44 grams per metric ton (g/t), compared with 1.03 g/t in the fourth quarter of 2001.  For the twelve-months 2002 period gold production and sales declined from the 2001 period as gold ore grades averaged 1.24 g/t in 2002 compared with 1.41 g/t in 2001.
PT-FI expects its sales for 2003 to approximate 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.6 million ounces of gold, reflecting the expectation in 2003 of slightly lower copper ore grades and higher gold ore grades compared with 2002.  PT-FI expects its sales for the first quarter of 2003 to approximate 370 million pounds of copper and 580,000 ounces of gold.
At December 31, 2002, FCX's concentrate sales included 180.3 million pounds of copper, priced at an average of $0.70 per pound, that remain subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.01 change in the price realized from the December 31 price would result in an approximate $0.9 million, $0.006 per share, effect on FCX's 2003 net income assuming no dilution for its convertible notes. Fourth-quarter 2002 adjustments to concentrate sales recognized in prior quarters decreased revenues by $1.9 million ($1.0 million to net income, $0.005 per share) compared with negligible net adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2001.
CASH PRODUCTION COSTS  
PT-FI remains the world's lowest cost copper producer with average unit net cash production costs, including gold and silver credits, of $0.03 per pound of copper during the fourth quarter of 2002 and $0.08 per pound for the year.  Unit production and delivery costs decreased primarily because of improved ore grades.  Assuming current gold prices of $350 per ounce and gold sales of 2.6 million ounces for 2003, we expect to establish a new record low for unit net cash production costs of a net credit of $0.07 per pound.  Based on our estimate of cash production costs for 2003, unit net costs would change approximately $0.05 per pound for each $25 per ounce change in the price of gold at this level of gold sales.
  
SMELTER OPERATIONS
As the world's single largest producer and supplier of custom concentrate, FCX's investment in smelters serves an important role in its concentrate marketing strategy.  Approximately one-half of PT-FI's concentrate production is sold to its affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting, and the remainder is sold to other customers.  Through downstream integration, FCX assures placement of a significant portion of its concentrate production and operating hedges for treatment and refining charges.  While currently low smelter treatment and refining charges adversely affect the operating results of FCX's smelter operations, they benefit operating results of its mining operations.  Taking into account taxes and minority ownership interests, an equivalent change in smelting and refining charge rates substantially offset in FCX's consolidated operating results.  
Atlantic Copper, FCX's wholly owned Spanish smelting unit, achieved strong operating results in the fourth quarter and for the twelve months of 2002 in terms of throughput and production, achieving an annual record for concentrates processed during 2002.  Unit cathode cash production costs totaled $0.14 per pound in the fourth quarter of 2002 and $0.12 per pound for 2002.  Atlantic Copper reported an operating loss of $2.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2002, compared with $2.2 million in the 2001 period.  For 2002, Atlantic Copper had operating income of $2.6 million compared with an operating loss of $16.0 million for 2001, reflecting the impact of a scheduled 27-day major maintenance turnaround in April 2001.  The treatment charges Atlantic receives remained at historically low levels, averaging $0.17 per pound during 2002 and 2001.  Changes in the amount of deferred profits on intercompany sales in inventories resulted in additions to FCX's net income totaling $5.7 million, $0.03 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2002, compared with $7.2 million, $0.05 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2001.
FCX recognized a $4.8 million, $0.03 per share, non-cash charge in the fourth quarter of 2002 as a result of the stronger euro on Atlantic Copper's net euro-denominated liabilities, compared with a $2.5 million, $0.02 per share, non-cash gain in the fourth quarter of 2001.  For 2002, FCX recognized an $11.9 million, $0.08 per share, non-cash charge, compared with a $2.4 million, $0.02 per share, non-cash gain for 2001.  The exchange rate effects of Atlantic Copper's operating cost euro hedges are reported as a component of shareholders' equity, not net income, until realized.  These hedges resulted in positive adjustments to stockholders' equity totaling $3.8 million, $0.02 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2002 and $14.0 million, $0.10 per share, for 2002.  For 2001, the hedges resulted in negative adjustments to stockholders' equity totaling $2.2 million, $0.01 per share, in the fourth quarter and $10.1 million, $0.07 per share, for 2001.
PT Smelting, PT-FI's 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit also achieved strong operating results in 2002.  PT Smelting's copper cathode cash production costs per pound totaled $0.10 per pound in the fourth quarter 2002 and $0.14 per pound for the twelve months, which included the impact of the scheduled 28-day maintenance turnaround in May 2002.
CASH FLOW AND DEBT REPAYMENTS
(a) Excludes assumption of $253.4 million Nusamba loan FCX recorded at December 31, 2001, which increased its ownership in PT-FI to 90.6 percent from 85.9 percent.
FCX's strong operating cash flows during the fourth quarter of 2002 resulted in FCX reducing net debt by $148 million.  Net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock totaled $2,377 million at December 31, 2002, compared with $2,655 million at December 31, 2001.  FCX estimates capital expenditures for 2003 will total approximately $160 million, including $40 million related to the completion of the expansion of the Deep Ore Zone underground mine to 35,000 metric tons of ore per day and the completion of the Grasberg mine overburden handling system.  At current copper and gold prices of $0.75 per pound and $350 per ounce, respectively, FCX projects that its 2003 operating cash flows would approximate $575 million and its reductions of net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock would approximate $350 million.  Each $0.10 change in copper prices would have an approximate $70 million impact on these estimates and each $25 change in gold prices would have an a pproximate $30 million impact.
   
RESERVE ADDITIONS
During 2002, additions to the aggregate proven and probable reserves at the Grasberg mining complex totaled approximately 86.6 million metric tons of ore representing aggregate increases of 2.6 billion recoverable pounds of copper and 1.0 million ounces of gold.  Year-end aggregate proven and probable recoverable reserves, net of 2002 production, were 2.6 billion metric tons of ore averaging 1.12 percent copper, 1.02 grams per metric ton gold and 3.73 grams per metric ton silver.  Estimated recoverable reserves were assessed using a copper price of $0.85 per pound and a gold price of $270 per ounce.  If metal prices in the reserve calculations were adjusted to the approximate average London spot market prices for the past three years, i.e., copper prices adjusted from $0.85 per pound to $0.75 per pound and gold prices adjusted from $270 per ounce to $285 per ounce, there would be no change in proven and probable reserves.
Pursuant to joint venture arrangements between PT-FI and Rio Tinto, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in future production from reserves above those reported at December 31, 1994.  Net of Rio Tinto's share, PT-FI's share of proven and probable reserves at December 31, 2002 was 39.4 billion pounds of copper, 48.5 million ounces of gold and 110.9 million ounces of silver.  FCX has a 90.6 percent equity interest in PT-FI's share of proven and probable reserves.
Steven J. Green has resigned as a director of FCX because of time commitments to other endeavors.  Mr. Moffett commented,  "We appreciate Mr. Green's contributions to FCX during his tenure on our Board, and wish him the best."
BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 
FCX explores for, develops, mines and processes ore containing copper, gold and silver in Indonesia, and smelts and refines copper concentrates in Spain and Indonesia.
Cautionary Statement.
 This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding estimated anticipated sales volumes, projected unit production costs, estimated operating cash flows, projected debt reductions, capital expenditures and the impact of copper and gold price changes. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include industry risks, commodity prices, Indonesian political risks, weather related and currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
A copy of this press release is available on our web site at "www.fcx.com."   A conference call with securities analysts about fourth-quarter 2002 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. EDT.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing "www.fcx.com."  A replay of the call will be available through Friday, February 14, 2003.
a.
Net of deferred mining costs totaling $6.9 million or 1.6 cents per pound in the fourth quarter of 2002, $3.3 million or 1.0 cents per pound in the fourth quarter of 2001, $30.6 million or 2.0 cents per pound in the twelve-months 2002 period and $29.4 million or 2.1 cents per pound in the twelve-months 2001 period.  
Includes adjustments to prior period concentrate sales totaling $(1.9) million in the 2002 quarter, $0.1 million in the 2001 quarter, $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $(2.8) million for the year ended December 31, 2001.b.
Includes net benefits (charges) totaling $(4.8) million in the 2002 quarter, $2.5 million in the 2001 quarter, $(11.9) million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 associated with the impact of movements in the US $/euro exchange rate on Atlantic Copper's non-operating euro-denominated liabilities.c.
Diluted net income per share for the fourth quarter of 2002 is based on dilution from the assumed conversion of FCX's 8 % Convertible Senior Notes, resulting in the exclusion of $12.6 million of interest expense, after taxes, related to the notes and the inclusion of 42.2 million common shares.


