FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20030424163509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
           Delaware   
  1-9916
          74-2480931
       (State or other
            
(Commission
            
        (IRS Employer
        jurisdiction of
           
  File Number)
      
         Identification
        incorporation or
      
         Number)
        organization)
Item 5.  
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following information is being provided by Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. to comply with Securities and Exchange Commission rules, which became effective on March 28, 2003.  The new rules require us to reconcile certain financial measures provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, to the most directly comparable measures in our audited financial statements.  Our reconciliations cover PT Freeport Indonesia's product revenues and production costs, and cathode cash production costs per pound of copper for Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting for the five years ended December 31, 2002.
PT FREEPORT INDONESIA PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS
Net cash production costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of our mining operations in Indonesia.  This measure is presented by other copper and gold mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
We calculate gross profit per pound of copper under a "by-product" method, while the copper, gold and silver contained within our concentrates are treated as co-products in our financial statements.  We use the by-product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (1) we believe the market views us as a copper company, (2) we produce and sell one product, concentrates, which contains all three metals and (3) there is no objective basis for specifically assigning our costs to revenues from the copper, gold and silver we produce in concentrates.  In the co-product method presentation below, we have allocated costs to the different products based on their relative revenue values for each period presented.  Presentations under both methods are presented below along with a reconciliation to amounts reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements.
CATHODE CASH PRODUCTION COST PER POUND OF COPPER
Cathode cash production cost per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the costs associated with our smelting operations in Spain and with our 25 percent-owned smelting operations in Indonesia.  Other smelting companies present this measure, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 Below is a reconciliation of our smelting and refining segment production costs reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements to the production costs used to calculate our cathode cash production cost per pound of copper for Atlantic Copper (in thousands, except per pound amounts):
ATLANTIC COPPER.
 
 Below is a reconciliation of the production costs used to calculate PT Smelting's cathode cash production cost per pound of copper to our equity in PT Smelting earnings (losses) reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements (in thousands, except per pound amounts):
PT SMELTING.
(1)
Operations began in the fourth quarter of 1998 and amounts were insignificant for 1998.
(2)
Excludes 17.9 million pounds of cathodes produced during the start-up period from January through April 1999.
                                                                6
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
     ----------------------------------------
           C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
      Vice President and Controller -
         Financial Reporting
         (authorized signatory and
        Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  April 24, 2003


