FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20031010131951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
           Delaware   
  1-9916
          74-2480931
       (State or other
            
(Commission
            
        (IRS Employer
        jurisdiction of
           
  File Number)
      
         Identification
        incorporation or
      
         Number)
        organization)
Item 9.  
Regulation FD Disclosure.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE:FCX) reported today that its affiliate PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI) is continuing search efforts for the six employees still missing and is commencing clean up activities resulting from the slippage of material in a section of the Grasberg open pit on October 9, 2003.  PT-FI and Indonesia's Department of Energy and Mineral Resources are undertaking a review of the causes of the accident.
PT-FI is currently conducting mining operations in the sections of the Grasberg open pit unaffected by the slippage and continues operations at its Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground mine, milling facilities and concentrate delivery systems.  As previously reported, the company is assessing the impact of this event on its 2003 copper and gold sales volumes and currently expects that a portion of its fourth quarter 2003 sales volumes will be deferred to 2004.  The effect is currently not expected to exceed 10 percent of PT-FI's 2003 projected annual volumes of 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.6 million ounces of gold and the effect could be lower than these amounts, depending on the ability of PT-FI's operations to restore the currently restricted access to its higher grade mine sites within the Grasberg open pit.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.     
     ----------------------------------------
           C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
      Vice President and Controller -
         Financial Reporting
         (authorized signatory and
        Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 10, 2003
 


