FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20041007164748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
           Delaware   
  1-9916
                      74-2480931
       (State or other
            
(Commission
            
        (IRS Employer
        jurisdiction of
           
 File Number)
      
         Identification
        incorporation)
      
         Number)
        
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated October 7, 2004, announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its annual common stock dividend from $0.80 per share to $1.00 per share (see exhibit 99).
                                
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
     ----------------------------------------
           C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
      Vice President and Controller -
         Financial Reporting
         (authorized signatory and
        Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 7, 2004
Exhibit
Number

NEW ORLEANS, LA, October 7, 2004  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its annual common stock dividend from $0.80 per share to $1.00 per share.  The dividend will be payable quarterly ($0.25 per share) and the increase will be reflected beginning with the November 1, 2004 dividend payment.  Based on approximately 179 million current shares outstanding, the annual common stock dividend would approximate $179 million.  
Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer of FCX, said, "We are pleased that our Board has increased our common dividend.  This action reflects confidence in our operations' capacity to generate cash flow.   We are committed to maintaining a strong financial position as we use a portion of our cash flow to provide returns to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.   A continuation of strong copper and gold prices would enable our Board to consider further dividend increases and additional common share purchases."
Approximately 16.6 million shares remain under FCX's open market share repurchase program.  The timing of future purchases is dependent upon many factors including the company's operating results, cash flow and financial position, the market price of the common shares and general economic and market conditions.
FCX explores for, develops, mines and processes ore containing copper, gold and silver in Indonesia, and smelts and refines copper concentrates in Spain and Indonesia. Additional information on FCX is available on our web site, .
www.fcx.com
Cautionary Statement.
 This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding timing of dividend payments and open market purchases of FCX common stock.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will depend on the Company's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include industry risks, commodity prices, Indonesian political risks, weather related and currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


