FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20060801155129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On August 1, 2006, the Board of Directors of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) elected Stephen H. Siegele to serve as a director. It is expected that Mr. Siegele will be appointed to board committees in the future. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Siegele and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Siegele was elected as a director. There are no transactions in which Mr. Siegele has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
The Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Siegeles election as a director, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
FCX also announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.75 per share to be paid on September 29, 2006 to shareholders of record as of September 14, 2006 (see Exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(c) Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: August 1, 2006
Exhibit
Number
 

NEW ORLEANS, LA, August 1, 2006 - Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) announced today that Stephen H. Siegele has been elected to its Board of Directors.
 
Mr. Siegele, age 46, has spent 22 years in various engineering and senior management roles within the semiconductor and microelectronics industries. Mr. Siegele was the founder and Chief Executive of Advanced Delivery & Chemical Systems, Inc. (ADCS), a worldwide leader in advanced chemicals and delivery hardware serving markets in Asia, Europe and the U.S. In 1997, ADCS merged with Advanced Technology Materials, Inc. where Mr. Siegele became a divisional president and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors until his retirement in 2000. He then founded Fluorine On Call, Ltd., a private company that designs and manufactures high purity fluorine generators to continue his innovative efforts to develop and apply advanced technology solutions. Mr. Siegele is a 1984 graduate of the University of Wisconsin - Madison with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering and an inventor on numerous U.S. patents.
 
We are pleased to welcome Stephen Siegele to our Board of Directors and look forward to his guidance and counsel said James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board of FCX. Stephens business and technology background will be an asset to our Board of Directors.
 
FCX explores for, develops, mines and processes ore containing copper, gold and silver in Indonesia, and smelts and refines copper concentrates in Spain and Indonesia. Additional information on FCX is available on our web site,
www.fcx.com
.
 
 

NEW ORLEANS, LA, August 1, 2006 - Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.75 per share to be paid on September 29, 2006 to shareholders of record as of September 14, 2006. The supplemental dividend to be paid in September represents an addition to FCXs regular quarterly common stock dividend of $0.3125 per share (equivalent to $1.25 per share per annum). Since the fourth quarter of 2004, FCXs Board has authorized seven supplemental dividends totaling $3.75 per share, including $0.25 per share in 2004, $1.50 per share in 2005 and $2.00 per share to date in 2006. The potential payment of any future supplemental dividends will be determined by FCXs Board of Directors and will be dependent upon many factors, including FCXs cash flows and financial position, copper and gold prices and general economic and market conditions. Based on approximately 188 million shares currently outstanding, the supplemental dividend payment will approximate $141 million.
 
Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer of FCX, said, We are pleased to continue our established financial policy of using excess cash flows being generated from our world-class Grasberg operations to return cash to shareholders while taking actions to strengthen our balance sheet further. Since the beginning of 2003, we have reduced our total debt by $1.4 billion and have funded $1.4 billion in common stock dividends and open market purchases of our common stock. The outlook for our business to continue generating significant cash flows for the benefit of our shareholders remains positive.
 
FCX explores for, develops, mines and processes ore containing copper, gold and silver in Indonesia, and smelts and refines copper concentrates in Spain and Indonesia. Additional information on FCX is available on our web site,
www.fcx.com
.
 
 
Cautionary Statement.
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding dividend payments and purchases of the Companys common stock. The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend on the Companys cash flows and financial position, copper and gold prices and general economic and market conditions. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include industry risks, commodity prices, Indonesian political risks, weather related and currency translation risks and other factors described in FCXs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


