FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20070425162624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated April 25, 2007, announcing its first-quarter 2007 results (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its April 25, 2007, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: April 25, 2007
Exhibit
Number

HIGHLIGHTS
 
1
 
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL
AND OPERATING DATA
 
 
2
PHOENIX, AZ, April 25, 2007 - Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported first-quarter 2007 net income applicable to common stock of $476.2 million, $2.02 per share, compared with net income of $251.7 million, $1.23 per share, for the first quarter of 2006. FCXs first-quarter 2007 financial and operating results include its wholly owned subsidiary Phelps Dodges results following its acquisition by FCX on March 19, 2007.
 
FCX recorded its preliminary allocation of the $25.9 billion purchase price to Phelps Dodges assets and liabilities based on estimated fair values as of March 19, 2007. The increases to property, plant, equipment and development costs and metals inventories resulting from this preliminary purchase price allocation resulted in higher cost of sales of $124.2 million ($79.0 million to net income or $0.32 per share) for the first quarter of 2007. These items do not affect operating cash flows.
 
First-quarter 2007 results also included net losses on debt reductions totaling $87.8 million ($74.6 million to net income or $0.31 per share) for financing transactions related to the acquisition of Phelps Dodge. First-quarter 2006 results included a $69.0 million ($36.6 million to net income or $0.17 per share) loss on the redemption of FCXs Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, Chief Executive Officer, said, The acquisition of Phelps Dodge is a significant event for our industry and our company. FCX has been transformed into one of the largest North American-based mining companies and the worlds largest publicly traded copper company. Our portfolio now includes significant reserves and production facilities in North and South America, the world-class Grasberg mining complex located in Indonesia, exciting development projects
including the Tenke Fungurume project in the Democratic Republic of Congo and exploration projects in major minerals districts around the world. This set of assets provides us major opportunities to pursue the creation of shareholder values and we will do so aggressively.
 
ACQUISITION OF PHELPS DODGE
On March 19, 2007, FCX acquired Phelps Dodge. In this transaction, each share of Phelps Dodge common stock was exchanged for 0.67 shares of FCX common stock and $88.00 in cash. As a result, FCX issued 136.9 million shares and paid $18.0 billion in cash to Phelps Dodge shareholders. Based on a closing price of $60.71 for FCX common stock on March 16, 2007, the last trading day before closing of the merger, total consideration (which includes the cash and common stock) received by Phelps Dodge shareholders was $26.3 billion (approximately $128.68 per Phelps Dodge common share).
 
Purchase Accounting.
In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price from FCXs acquisition of Phelps Dodge is determined at the date of the public announcement of the transaction and is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values on the closing date of March 19, 2007. The estimated fair values were based on internal estimates and are subject to change as FCX completes its analyses. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired has been recorded as goodwill. A significant decline in copper or molybdenum prices from those used to estimate the fair values of the acquired assets could result in impairment to the carrying amounts assigned to inventories; mill and leach stockpiles; property, plant, equipment and development costs and goodwill.
 
3
 
Below is a summary of the preliminary purchase price allocation as of March 31, 2007 (in billions):
 
The concept of VBPP is described in Emerging Issue Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 04-3, 
Mining Assets: Impairment and Business Combinations,
and has been interpreted differently by different mining companies. FCXs preliminary adjustment to property, plant, equipment and development costs includes VBPP attributable to mineralized material that FCX believes could be brought into production should market conditions and technical assessments warrant. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support reported tonnage and average grade of metal(s). Such a deposit may not qualify as proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. The carrying amount for property, plant, equipment and development costs includes preliminary adjustments attributable to inferred mineral resources and exploration potential. FCX is continuing to analyze VBPP and the final values may vary significantly from preliminary estimates.
4
 
The table below summarizes the estimated impacts of fair value adjustments on 2007 depreciation, depletion and amortization expense (DD&A) and production costs. These amounts do not affect cash flows and are based on the preliminary purchase price allocations and projected sales volumes. Changes to fair value estimates of property, plant, equipment and development costs, inventories and mill and leach stockpiles could result in significantly different amounts from those shown below. Additionally, inventories and mill and leach stockpiles are subject to lower of cost or market assessments, and significant declines in metals market prices could result in future impairment charges.
 
SUMMARY CONTRIBUTION ANALYSIS
FCXs first-quarter 2007 operating performance, including Phelps Dodges results beginning March 20, 2007, and the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, is shown below (in millions):
 
5
FINANCING TRANSACTIONS
To finance its acquisition of Phelps Dodge, FCX used $2.5 billion of cash and completed the following debt transactions:
 
In accordance with its plan to reduce debt, FCX completed the following equity transactions immediately following closing of the acquisition and used the net proceeds to reduce credit facility borrowings:
 
 
A summary of the financing transactions associated with the Phelps Dodge acquisition and the related debt balances at March 31, 2007, follows (in billions):
 
 
Cash and Debt.
 
At March 31, 2007, FCX had $12.0 billion in debt, including $10.4 billion in acquisition debt, $0.9 billion in Phelps Dodge debt assumed in the transaction and $0.7 billion of previously existing FCX debt. At March 31, 2007, FCX had consolidated cash of $3.1 billion and net cash available to the parent company of $2.4 billion as shown below (in billions):
 
 
FCX announced that it would redeem its 10% Senior Notes ($272.4 million balance) on May 4, 2007, for $286.2 million and has prepaid an additional $500 million of term debt during April 2007. FCX will record charges totaling approximately $24.3 million ($20.7 million to net income) in the second quarter of 2007 related to the premiums paid and the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs associated with these debt reductions.
 
6
 
PT FREEPORT INDONESIA (PT-FI) PRODUCTION AND SALES
Through its 90.6 percent owned subsidiary PT-FI, FCX operates one of the worlds largest copper and gold mines at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
PT-FI reported higher first-quarter 2007 sales volumes compared with the first quarter of 2006, primarily because of higher ore grades. PT-FIs share of sales totaled 417.1 million pounds of copper and 946.5 thousand ounces of gold, exceeding previous estimates reported in January 2007 of 400 million pounds of copper and 850 thousand ounces of gold, primarily because it mined certain sections of high-grade ore previously expected to be mined in future periods.
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2007, copper ore grades averaged 1.21 percent and recovery rates averaged 91.0 percent, compared with 0.72 percent and 82.5 percent for the first quarter of 2006. Gold ore grades averaged 2.01 grams per metric ton (g/t) and recovery rates averaged 87.8 percent in the first quarter of 2007, compared with 0.92 g/t and 80.6 percent for the first quarter of 2006. Mill throughput, which varies depending on ore types being processed, averaged 228,500 metric tons of ore per day in the first quarter of 2007, compared with 216,800 metric tons of ore in the first quarter of 2006. Production from PT-FIs Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground mine averaged 49,200 metric tons of ore per day in the first quarter of 2007, representing approximately 22 percent of mill throughput.
 
FCXs consolidated share of annual sales from Indonesia in 2007 is projected to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold, including approximately 300 million pounds of copper and 575.0 thousand ounces of gold in the second quarter. At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production, resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. Approximately 65 percent of PT-FIs copper sales and 85 percent of PT-FIs gold sales in 2007 are expected in the first half of the year. The achievement of these sales estimates will depend, among other factors, on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of PT-FI production facilities, the impact of weather conditions at the end of fiscal periods on concentrate loading activities and other factors.
Grasberg operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four-day period from April 18 - April 21 as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers regarding benefits. The protests ended on April 21 with an agreement on a framework for minimum wages for its workers and Grasberg has returned to normal operations. The impacts to production were not significant.
 
Unit Net Cash Costs.
PT-FIs unit net cash (credits) costs, including gold and silver credits, averaged a net credit of $0.30 per pound of copper during the first quarter of 2007, compared with a net cost of $0.39 per pound in the 2006 quarter. The lower unit net cash costs in the 2007 quarter compared with the 2006 quarter primarily reflect higher copper and gold volumes and higher gold prices. Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.
7
 
 
 
Assuming average copper prices of $3.00 per pound and average gold prices of $650 per ounce for the remainder of 2007 and achievement of current 2007 sales estimates, PT-FI estimates that its annual 2007 unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, would approximate $0.55 per pound. Because the majority of PT-FIs costs are fixed, unit costs vary with the volumes sold and the price of gold, and are therefore currently projected to be lower during the first half of 2007 and higher during the second half. Unit net cash costs for 2007 would change by approximately $0.02 per pound for each $25 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the remainder of 2007.
OTHER ITEMS
At March 31, 2007, FCXs consolidated copper sales included 556.5 million pounds of copper, priced at an average of $3.12 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. Each $0.05 change in the price realized from the March 31, 2007, price would result in an approximate $16.2 million effect on FCXs 2007 net income. The LME closing spot price for copper on April 24, 2007 was $3.57. First-quarter 2007 adjustments to concentrate sales recognized in prior quarters decreased revenues by $8.5 million ($4.5 million to net income or $0.02 per share) compared with an increase of $110.2 million ($58.4 million to net income or $0.26 per share) in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned Spanish smelting unit, reported operating income of $12.4 million, compared with $13.5 million in the 2006 period.
 
FCX defers recognition of profits on PT-FIs sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until the final sales to third parties occur. Changes in these net deferrals resulted in reductions to FCXs net income totaling $109.3 million, $0.45 per share, in the first quarter of 2007, compared with an increase of $39.3 million, $0.18 per share, in the first quarter of 2006. At March 31, 2007, FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and minority interests sharing totaled $210.1 million. Based on copper prices of $3.00 per pound and gold prices of $650 per ounce for the second quarter of 2007 and current shipping schedules, FCX estimates that the net change in these deferred profits on intercompany sales will result in an increase to net income of approximately $50 million in the second quarter of 2007. The actual change in deferred intercompany profits may differ substantially from this estimate because of changes in the timing of shipments to affiliated smelters and metal prices.
8
 
PRO FORMA OPERATIONS
FCXs pro forma operating results for the first quarters of 2007 and 2006, including the full-quarter results of PT-FIs mining operations and the smelting and refining operations of Atlantic Copper and PT-FIs 25%-owned affiliate PT Smelting, together with pre-acquisition Phelps Dodge results, follow. Pro forma operating results shown below are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2007.
 
 
9
 
North American Mining.
Through Phelps Dodge, FCX operates five open-pit copper mining complexes in North America - Morenci, Bagdad and Sierrita in Arizona and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico, and molybdenum mining operations - the Henderson/Climax complex in Colorado. In addition, a new copper mining complex is under construction at Safford, Arizona. All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci. FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method. The North American copper mining operations are operated in an integrated fashion and have long-lived reserves with significant additional development potential.
 
 
 
First-quarter 2007 North America sales volumes were lower than first-quarter 2006 primarily because of lower ore grades. Consolidated copper sales from North American operations totaled 1.3 billion pounds in 2006 and are expected to approximate 1.3 billion pounds for the full year 2007. In the first quarter of 2007, sales from these operations totaled 306.7 million pounds of copper.
 
With its acquisition of Phelps Dodge, FCX is now the worlds largest producer of molybdenum through the primary molybdenum Henderson mine and as a by-product at several of its copper mines.
 
The Henderson block-cave underground mining complex produces high-purity, chemical-grade molybdenum concentrates, which are further processed into value-added molybdenum chemical products. Feasibility studies are ongoing for reopening the Climax open-pit mine, which has been on care-and-maintenance status since 1995. Assuming favorable market conditions and timely receipt of permits, the Climax mine could resume operation by the end of 2009.
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales from the primary and by-product mines totaled 68.8 million pounds in 2006 and are expected to approximate 70 million pounds for the full year 2007.
Consolidated molybdenum sales totaled 18.6 million pounds in the first quarter of 2007 and are expected to approximate 17 million pounds in the second quarter of 2007.
 
Approximately 60 percent of FCXs expected 2007 molybdenum production is committed for sale throughout the world pursuant to annual or quarterly agreements based primarily on prevailing market prices one month prior to the time of sale. The Platts Metals Week closing price for molybdenum on April 23, 2007, was $28.08 per pound.
10
 
Unit Net Cash Costs.
The following table summarizes the pro forma unit net cash costs at the North American mines for the full first quarters of 2007 and 2006.
 
 
 
North American unit cash costs were higher in the first quarter of 2007 compared with the first quarter of 2006 primarily because of lower volumes and higher costs at the Morenci operation associated with equipment maintenance, an increase in consumables and mill restart costs.
 
Assuming an average price of $20 per pound of molybdenum for the remainder of 2007 and achievement of current 2007 sales estimates, FCX estimates that its pro forma 2007 average unit net cash costs for its North American mines, including molybdenum credits, would approximate $0.87 per pound of copper. Average unit net cash costs for 2007 would change by approximately $0.03 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the remainder of 2007.
 
South American Mining.
Through Phelps Dodge, FCX operates three copper mining complexes in South America - Candelaria/Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile and Cerro Verde in Peru. These operations are consolidated in FCXs financial statements, with outside ownership reported as minority interests.
 
FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria/Ojos del Salado mining complex, which includes the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines. These mines use certain common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates. FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes. FCX owns a 53.6 percent equity interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes and copper concentrates. Cerro Verde has recently completed an approximate $900 million expansion project that will enable
sulfide ore reserves to be processed through a new concentrator.
 
 
Copper sales in the first quarter of 2007 were higher than in the first quarter of 2006 primarily reflecting the start up of expanded production at Cerro Verde partly offset by lower El Abra sales. Consolidated copper sales totaled 1.1 billion pounds from South American operations in 2006 and are expected to approximate 1.5 billion pounds for the full year 2007. In the first quarter of 2007, these operations sold 301.8 million pounds of copper. The projected increases for full-year 2007 reflect incremental production from the new Cerro Verde concentrator, partly offset by lower grades at El Abra.
 
11
 
Unit Net Cash Costs.
The following table summarizes the pro forma unit net cash costs at the South American mines for the full first quarters of 2007 and 2006.
 
 
 
South American unit net cash costs were higher in the first quarter of 2007 compared with the first quarter of 2006 primarily resulting from mill start up activities and higher employee costs at Cerro Verde and the impact of lower volumes at El Abra.
 
FCX estimates that its pro forma annual 2007 average unit net cash costs for its South American mines, including gold credits, would approximate $0.85 per pound of copper.
 
Other.
 
FCX also acquired Phelps Dodges wire and cable business which operates in nine countries throughout Latin America, Asia and Africa, and is engaged in the manufacturing of energy cables for various industries. This business had revenues of $1.3 billion and operating income of $57.6 million in 2006.
 
DEVELOPMENT and EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
Development Activities.
FCX has significant development activities under way to expand its copper production capacity, extend its mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. Current major projects include the recently commissioned expansion of Cerro Verde; construction of a major new mining complex at Safford, Arizona; the concentrate-leach, direct-electrowinning facility being constructed at Morenci; a sulfide leach project to extend the mine life at El Abra; various projects to develop the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies in the Grasberg district and development of the Tenke Fungurume project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
 
Construction of a new concentrate-leach, direct-electrowinning facility at
Morenci
is on schedule for completion in the third quarter of 2007. The facility uses Phelps Dodges proprietary medium-temperature, pressure-leaching and direct electrowinning technology which will enhance cost savings by processing concentrate on-site instead of shipping concentrate to smelters for treatment.
 
The
Safford
copper mining complex in Arizona commenced construction in August 2006 and is expected to produce copper initially from two open-pit mines. FCX anticipates that Safford will be in production by early 2008, with full copper production initially expected to approximate 240 million pounds per year. The life of the operation is expected to be at least 18 years. The Safford mining complex will require an investment of approximately $580 million. FCX believes there is significant additional exploration and development potential in this district, including the large Lone Star project.
 
Cerro Verde
has recently completed an approximate $900 million mill expansion project to process
sulfide ore reserves through a new concentrator. Processing of the sulfide ore began in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the mill is on schedule to reach design capacity during the second quarter of 2007. Incremental annual production from this expansion is expected to total 430 million pounds.
 
At the end of 2006, a feasibility study was completed that evaluated the development of the large sulfide deposit at
El
A
bra
. This project would extend the mine life by seven years. Copper production from the sulfides is expected to begin in 2010. The existing facilities at El Abra will be used to process the additional reserves, minimizing capital spending requirements. Total initial capital for the project is approximately $350 million, the majority of which will be spent between 2008 and 2011. In March 2007, an environmental impact study associated with the sulfide project was submitted to Chilean authorities.
 
12
 
Indonesia
.
PT-FI has several projects in progress throughout the
Grasberg District
, including developing its large-scale underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit. These projects include the expansion of the DOZ mine to 50,000 metric tons of ore per day by mid-2007 and a further expansion to 80,000 metric tons per day; the development of the high-grade Big Gossan mine, expected to ramp-up to full production of 7,000 metric tons per day in late 2010; and the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, which will provide access to the Grasberg underground ore body, the Kucing Liar ore body and future development of the area containing the DOZ mine.
 
Africa.
FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the
Tenke Fungurume
copper/cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo. FCX is the operator of the project. The Tenke Fungurume feasibility study, which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2006, is based on ore reserves of 103 million metric tons with ore grades of 2.1 percent copper and 0.3 percent cobalt. Based on the current mine plan, ore grades for the first ten years are expected to average 4.6 percent copper and 0.4 percent cobalt.
 
Operations are expected to commence by early 2009, with initial production of approximately 250 million pounds of copper and approximately 18 million pounds of cobalt per year for the first 10 years. Based on the recent feasibility study which assumes a long-term cobalt price of $12 per pound, life-of-mine unit net cash costs after by-product credits are estimated to be a net credit of $0.19 per pound of copper.
 
FCX is responsible for funding 70 percent of project development costs. The Tenke Fungurume project will require a capital investment of approximately $650 million.
 
Exploration Activities.
 
FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines and in other high potential areas around the world. Exploration expenditures in 2007 are expected to approximate $125 million.
 
FCXs exploration efforts in
North America
include
drilling within the Safford district of the Lone Star deposit located approximately four miles from the ore body currently under development and targets in the Morenci district. In Africa, FCX plans to explore targets outside of the area of initial development at Tenke Fungurume and to advance a pre-feasibility study on the separate Kisanfu project.
 
FCX is reviewing the development potential of each mining district acquired from Phelps Dodge and all of its ongoing exploration activities. These reviews could result in changes in FCXs exploration and development plans.
 
PT-FIs 2007 exploration efforts in
Indonesia
will continue to test extensions of the Deep Grasberg and Kucing Liar mine complex. PT-FI also expects to test the open-pit potential of the Wanagon gold prospect, the Ertsberg open-pit resource through surface drilling programs, for extensions of the Deep Mill Level Zone deposit and other targets in the area between the Ertsberg and Grasberg mineral systems from the new Common Infrastructure tunnels. During 2007, FCX has resumed exploration activities suspended in recent years in certain prospective areas outside Block A including the Kamopa prospect. Field programs were initiated at the Ular Merah copper/gold prospect in its Eastern Minerals contract of work area during the first quarter of 2007.
OUTLOOK
FCXs pro forma consolidated sales volumes for 2007 are currently projected to approximate 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 70 million pounds of molybdenum, including pre-acquisition Phelps Dodge sales, and projected sales volumes for the second quarter of 2007 total 970 million pounds of copper, 600 thousand ounces of gold and 17 million pounds of molybdenum. The achievement of FCXs sales estimates will be dependent, among other factors, on the achievement of targeted mining rates and expansion plans, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.
 
Using estimated sales volumes for the remainder of 2007 and assuming average prices of $3.00 per pound of copper, $650 per ounce of gold and $20 per pound of molybdenum in the balance of the year, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows would exceed $5.3 billion in 2007, including over $4.6 billion projected in the remaining three quarters. Each $0.20 per pound change in copper prices would affect 2007 cash flows by approximately $400 million. Each $50 per ounce change in gold prices would affect 2007 cash flows by approximately $30 million, and each $2 per pound change in molybdenum
 
13
 
prices would affect 2007 cash flows by approximately $50 million. FCXs capital expenditures for 2007 are currently estimated to approximate $1.6 billion.
 
FCX expects to generate cash flows during 2007 significantly greater than its capital expenditures, minority interests distributions, dividends and other cash requirements. Assuming average prices of $3.00 per pound of copper, $650 per ounce of gold and $20 per pound of molybdenum in the balance of the year, and assuming excess cash is applied to reduce debt, total debt at year-end 2007 would approximate $9 billion and consolidated cash would approximate $2 billion.
FINANCIAL POLICY
FCX has a long track record for maximizing shareholder values through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases. FCXs common stock annual dividend of $1.25 per share, which it expects to maintain, totals approximately $475 million per year. Common and preferred dividends total approximately $730 million per year.
 
Following the significant increase in debt associated with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, FCX has placed a high priority on debt reduction. As a result of the positive outlook for the business, FCX expects to achieve its objective of meaningful debt reduction in the near-term. FCX will continue to consider opportunities to reduce debt though possible asset sales. FCXs management and its Board of Directors will review the companys financial policy on an ongoing basis. FCX has 12.2 million shares remaining under its Board-authorized 20-million share open market purchase program.
OTHER MATTERS
The
Fortune 500
rankings of Americas largest companies has recently been published. FCX was ranked 398 and Phelps Dodge was ranked 206 based on 2006 revenues. The combined companys revenues of $17.7 billion in 2006 are comparable to the 130
th
ranking in the
Fortune 500
list of Americas largest companies for 2006.
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum. FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry. The Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves, is the companys key asset. FCX also operates significant mining operations in North and South America and is developing the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume project in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Additional information about FCX is available on our website at
www.fcx.com
.
 
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes, the impact of changes in deferred intercompany profits on earnings, projected debt and cash balances, and the impact of purchase accounting, including on production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses. Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments. FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Prospectus Supplement dated March 22, 2007, relating to its common stock offering filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs (credits) per pound of copper. As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements are provided in the attachments to this press release.
 
A copy of this press release is available on our web site, www.fcx.com. A conference call with securities analysts about first-quarter 2007 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. EDT. The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides. Interested parties may listen to the webcast live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com. A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, May 18, 2007.
14
I
II
III
IV
V
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to its primary metal product, copper. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This measure is presented by other copper and gold mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (1) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (2) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (3) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, and molybdenum and other metals it produces, (4) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (5) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor its operations. In the co-product method presentation below, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations below, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. In addition, costs resulting from the application of the purchase accounting method are removed. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues, excluding any impacts from redemption of the gold- and silver-denominated preferred stocks, are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. Presentations under both methods are shown below together with a reconciliation to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements.
VI
North America Pro Forma Product Revenues and Unit Net Cash Costs
VII
North America Pro Forma Product Revenues and Unit Net Cash Costs
VIII
South America Pro Forma Product Revenues and Unit Net Cash Costs
IX
South America Pro Forma Product Revenues and Unit Net Cash Costs
X
Indonesia Product Revenues and Unit Net Cash Costs
XI
Indonesia Product Revenues and Unit Net Cash Costs
XII
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs income tax provision for the first quarter of 2007 resulted from taxes on earnings at international operations ($505.7 million), offset by a tax benefit from losses at United States (U.S.) operations ($45.5 million). The difference between the effective income tax rate of 43 percent for the first quarter of 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent was primarily attributable to withholding taxes recognized in connection with earnings from our Indonesian mining operations and income taxes recognized by PT Indocopper Investama. FCXs net income for the first quarter of 2007 included approximately $106 million of earnings from Phelps Dodge for the period beginning March 20, 2007. The tax provision associated with these earnings ($33.6 million) did not have a significant impact on FCXs first-quarter 2007 results.
For the first quarters of 2007 and 2006, significantly all of FCXs tax provision relates to PT Freeport Indonesia. PT Freeport Indonesias Contract of Work provides for a 35 percent corporate income tax rate. PT Indocopper Investama (100 percent owned by FCX) pays a 30 percent corporate income tax on dividends it receives from its 9.36 percent ownership in PT Freeport Indonesia. In addition, the tax treaty between Indonesia and the U.S. provides for a withholding tax rate of 10 percent on dividends and interest that PT Freeport Indonesia and PT Indocopper Investama pay to their parent company, FCX. FCX currently records no income taxes at Atlantic Copper, which is subject to taxation in Spain, because it has not generated significant taxable income in recent years and has substantial tax loss carryforwards for which FCX has provided no net financial statement benefit. FCX receives no consolidated tax benefit from these losses because they cannot be used to offset PT Freeport Indonesias profits in Indonesia, but can be utilized to offset Atlantic Coppers future profits.
FCX parent company costs consist primarily of interest, depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses and other debt-related costs. Prior to the 2007 acquisition, FCX received minimal, if any, tax benefit from these costs, including interest expense, primarily because the parent company normally generates no taxable income from U.S. sources. Beginning in 2007, parent company costs will be deducted from U.S. sourced income generated by Phelps Dodge and benefited at the combined companys estimated 2007 U.S. federal and state tax rate of 32 percent. Summaries of the approximate significant components of the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes are shown below (in millions, except percentages).
XIII
Beginning with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge in March 2007, FCXs business consists of three primary operating divisions - Indonesian Mining, North American Mining and South American Mining. Indonesian Mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias copper and gold mining operations and PT Puncakjaya Powers power generating operations (after eliminations with PT Freeport Indonesia). North American Mining includes five copper mining complexes - Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita, Chino and Tyrone - and also includes primary molybdenum activities, manufacturing and sales, as well as other mining activities. South American Mining includes three copper mining complexes - Candelaria/Ojos del Salado, El Abra and Cerro Verde. Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. Phelps Dodge International Corporation (PDIC) manufactures energy cables for various industries. The following tables provide a summary of financial data by operating division for the first quarter of 2007, including the results of Phelps Dodge for the 12-day period ending March 31, 2007, and the first quarter of 2006.
XIV
XV



