FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20070308195620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the
registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. ("
FCX
") and Phelps Dodge Corporation ("
Phelps Dodge
") have reached an agreement in principle (the "
Agreement
") to settle three purported class actions filed by shareholders of Phelps Dodge on November 22, December 12 and December 14, 2006 in Arizona and New York state courts, in connection with the proposed acquisition of Phelps Dodge by FCX (the "
Merger
"), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated November 18, 2006, among FCX, Phelps Dodge and Panther Acquisition Corporation, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of FCX, as amended. The settlement is subject to court approval.
     
Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, FCX has agreed that if, within 12 months after the closing of the Merger, FCX sells all or substantially all of the capital stock or assets of Phelps Dodge, FCX will pay $125 million in additional pro rata consideration (less any fees awarded to plaintiffs' counsel with respect to such consideration) to the shareholders of Phelps Dodge who receive the merger consideration in the Merger.
     
In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Phelps Dodge agreed to make the following additional disclosures beyond the information provided in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus of FCX and Phelps Dodge, dated February 12, 2007, which we refer to as the joint proxy statement/prospectus, which should be read in conjunction with the disclosure in the joint proxy statement/prospectus referred to above:
     
This Current Report on Form 8-K is intended to be incorporated by reference into the joint proxy statement/prospectus as provided in the section of the joint proxy statement/prospectus entitled "Where You Can Find More Information".
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
     
This document contains certain forward-looking statements about FCX and Phelps Dodge. When used in this document, the words "anticipates", "may", "can", "believes", "expects", "projects", "intends", "likely", "will", "to be" and any similar expressions and any other statements that are not historical facts, in each case as they relate to FCX or Phelps Dodge, the management of either such company or the transaction are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. In making any of those statements, the person making them believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. However, any such statement may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected or anticipated. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of FCX and Phelps Dodge, including macroeconomic conditions and general industry conditions such as the competitive environment of the mining industry, unanticipated mining, milling and other processing problems, accidents that lead to personal injury or property damage, persistent commodity price reductions, changes in political, social or economic circumstances in areas where FCX and Phelps Dodge operate, variances in ore grades, labor relations, adverse weather conditions, the speculative nature of mineral exploration, fluctuations in interest rates and other adverse financial market conditions, regulatory and litigation matters and risks, changes in tax and other laws, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied, the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated and other risks to consummation of the transaction. The actual results or performance by FCX or Phelps Dodge, and issues relating to the transaction, could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements relating to those matters. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of FCX or Phelps Dodge, the combined company or the transaction. Except as required by law, we are under no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to
update, alter or otherwise revise any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
   Additional Information and Where to Find It
     
In connection with the proposed merger, FCX has filed a registration statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Registration No. 333-139252), containing a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus. On or about February 13, 2007, the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus was mailed to FCX and Phelps Dodge shareholders of record at the close of business on February 12, 2007. INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS ARE ADVISED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS BECAUSE IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and shareholders may obtain the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, documents filed with the SEC by FCX are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the FCX website at
www.fcx.com
. Documents filed with the SEC by Phelps Dodge are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the Phelps Dodge website at www.phelpsdodge.com.
   Participants in the Solicitation
     
FCX, and certain of its directors and executive officers are participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of FCX in connection with the merger. Information concerning the interests of FCX's directors and executive officers in FCX is also set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC. Phelps Dodge, and certain of its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its shareholders in connection with the merger. Information concerning the interests of Phelps Dodge's directors and executive officers in Phelps Dodge is set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.
     
Other information regarding the direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, of the participants is described in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus relating to the merger. Investors and stockholders can obtain more detailed information regarding the direct and indirect interests of FCX's and Phelps Dodge's directors and executive officers in the merger by reading the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


