FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20070301181553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated March 1, 2007, announcing that it intends to offer a total of $6 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes to the public in two tranches (see Exhibit 99.1).
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements about FCX and Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge). When used in this document, the words anticipates, may, can, believes, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, to be and any similar expressions and any other statements that are not historical facts, in each case as they relate to FCX or Phelps Dodge, the management of either such company or the transaction are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. In making any of those statements, the person making them believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. However, any such statement may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected or anticipated. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of FCX and Phelps Dodge, including macroeconomic conditions and general industry conditions such as the competitive environment of the mining industry, unanticipated mining, milling and other processing problems, accidents that lead to personal injury or property damage, persistent commodity price reductions, changes in political, social or economic circumstances in areas where FCX and Phelps Dodge operate, variances in ore grades, labor relations, adverse weather conditions, the speculative nature of mineral exploration, fluctuations in interest rates and other adverse financial market conditions, regulatory and litigation matters and risks, changes in tax and other laws, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied, the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated and other risks to consummation of the transaction. The actual results or performance by FCX or Phelps Dodge, and issues relating to the transaction, could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements relating to those matters. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of FCX or Phelps Dodge, the combined company or the transaction. Except as required by law, we are under no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update, alter or otherwise revise any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Important Information for Investors and Stockholders
FCX and Phelps Dodge filed a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with the proposed merger. FCX and Phelps Dodge urge investors and stockholders to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed by either party with the SEC because they contain important information.
Investors and stockholders are able to obtain the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the website maintained by the SEC at
www.sec.gov
. In addition, documents filed with the SEC by FCX are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the FCX website at
http://www.fcx.com
. Documents filed with the SEC by Phelps Dodge are available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the Phelps Dodge website at
www.phelpsdodge.com
.
FCX, and certain of its directors and executive officers are participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of FCX in connection with the merger. Information concerning the interests of FCXs directors and executive officers in FCX is set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC. Phelps Dodge, and certain of its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its shareholders in connection with the merger. Information concerning the interests of Phelps Dodges directors and executive officers in Phelps Dodge is set forth in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC.
 
Other information regarding the direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, of the participants are described in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus relating to the merger. Investors and stockholders can obtain more detailed information regarding the direct and indirect interests of FCXs and Phelps Dodges directors and executive officers in the merger by reading the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibit.
The Exhibit included as part of this Current Report is listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: March 1, 2007
 
Exhibit
Number

 
NEW ORLEANS, LA, March 1, 2007 - Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that it intends to offer a total of $6 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes to the public in two tranches. The first tranche will be 8-year senior notes and the second tranche will be 10-year senior notes.
 
FCX intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund a portion of the Phelps Dodge Corporation (NYSE: PD) acquisition consideration and pay related fees and expenses. The closing of this offering is conditioned on the Phelps Dodge acquisition. As previously announced, each company will hold a special meeting of stockholders on March 14, 2007 to vote on the proposed acquisition of Phelps Dodge by FCX.
 
The joint book-running managers for the offering are JPMorgan and Merrill Lynch & Co. Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement relating to this offering may be obtained by contacting J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 270 Park Avenue, 8
th
Floor, New York, New York, 10017 or Merrill Lynch & Co., 4 World Trade Center, New York, New York, 10080.
 
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. Any offers of the notes will be made exclusively by means of a prospectus and prospectus supplement.
 
FCX explores for, develops, mines and processes ore containing copper, gold and silver in Indonesia, and smelts and refines copper concentrates in Spain and Indonesia.
 
 
Cautionary Statement:
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the merger with Phelps Dodge. Accuracy of the projections depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments. FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the projections in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the projections more frequently than quarterly. Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, Indonesian political risks, weather-related risks, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
 
Important Information for Investors and Stockholders:
FCX and Phelps Dodge filed a joint proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger. FCX and Phelps Dodge urge investors and stockholders to read the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus and any other relevant documents filed by either party with the SEC because they contain important information.
 
Investors and stockholders may obtain the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, documents filed with the SEC by FCX will be available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the FCX web site at www.fcx.com. Documents filed with the SEC by Phelps Dodge will be available free of charge on the investor relations portion of the Phelps Dodge web site at www.phelpsdodge.com.
 
1
 
FCX and certain of its directors and executive officers are participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of FCX in connection with the merger. Information concerning the interests of FCXs directors and executive officers in FCX is set forth in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC. Phelps Dodge and certain of its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from its shareholders in connection with the merger. Information concerning the interests of Phelps Dodges directors and executive officers in Phelps Dodge is set forth in the preliminary joint proxy statement filed with the SEC.
 
Other information regarding the direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, of the participants is described in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus relating to the merger. Investors and stockholders can obtain more detailed information regarding the direct and indirect interests of FCXs and Phelps Dodges directors and executive officers in the merger by reading the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus.
 
 
 
2


