FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20071031165200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. announced today that L. Richards McMillan, II has been named Senior Vice President and General Counsel (see Exhibit 99.1).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibit included as part of this Current Report is listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
 
Date:  October 31, 2007
 
Exhibit
Number
 

 
PHOENIX, AZ, October 31, 2007  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that L. Richards McMillan, II has been named Senior Vice President and General Counsel.
 
Mr. McMillan, age 60, joins FCX after a 30-year career with the law firm of Jones, Walker, Waechter, Poitevent, Carrre & Dengre L.L.P.  He has worked with FCX as a senior corporate and securities law attorney since 1995.
 
Mr. McMillan received his undergraduate degree at Washington & Lee University and his Juris Doctorate from Tulane University Law School.  After serving three years in the Navy JAG Corps, he received a Master of Laws in Taxation from New York University Law School.  Mr. McMillan served as head of Jones Walkers corporate and securities section and as a member and chairman of the firms executive committee.
 
Mr. McMillan replaces S. David Colton who is retiring after a 20-year career with Phelps Dodge and has served as FCX General Counsel since the Companys March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge.  Mr. Colton should be congratulated for his successful career and valued contributions.
 
Richard C. Adkerson, Chief Executive Officer, said: We are pleased to welcome Rick McMillan to our executive team.  He has worked with Freeport as outside counsel for over a decade and has a strong record of accomplishment.  He brings a wealth of experience on legal and business matters and will be a great asset to our organization.
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  The company's portfolio of assets include the Grasberg mining complex, the world's largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci/Safford minerals district in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume development project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on our web site at .
www.fcx.com
 
 


