FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20070713132408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
   
Item 1.01.  
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 10, 2007, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.s (FCX) stockholders approved amendments to FCXs 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (Plan). The purpose of the Plan is to motivate and reward key personnel with stock based-awards at an appropriate level.  In March 2007, FCX completed the acquisition of Phelps Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge), which resulted in Phelps Dodge becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX.  As a result, the number of employees and consultants who are now eligible to receive awards under our incentive plans increased by over 200 people. Due in part to our increased employee population, the Board believed that the number of shares available for grant under FCXs incentive plans was inadequate to address FCXs short-term needs.  The amendments (1) increase the number of shares available for grant under the Plan from 12 million to 37 million shares, (2) increase the sublimits under the Plan regarding the number of shares that may be granted as restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards, and (3) extend the term of the amended and restated Plan to July 10, 2017.
For further information regarding the amended Plan, see FCXs 2007 Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2007. The amended Plan is filed as an exhibit to this Form 8-K (see Exhibit 10.1).
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibit included as part of this Current Report is listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
    
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  July 13, 2007
   
Exhibit
Number

 
.  The purpose of the Amended and Restated Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) is to motivate and reward key employees, consultants and advisers by giving them a proprietary interest in the Companys success.
Purpose
 
 
.  As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
 
Award shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or Other Stock-Based Award.
 
Award Agreement shall mean any written or electronic notice of grant, agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing any Award, which may, but need not, be required to be executed, acknowledged or accepted by a Participant.
 
Board shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
Committee shall mean, until otherwise determined by the Board, the Corporate Personnel Committee of the Board.
 
Common Stock shall mean the Common Stock, $.10 par value per share of the Company.
 
Company shall mean Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
 
Designated Beneficiary shall mean the beneficiary designated by the Participant, in a manner determined by the Committee, to receive the benefits due the Participant under the Plan in the event of the Participants death.  In the absence of an effective designation by the Participant, Designated Beneficiary shall mean the Participants estate.
 
Eligible Individual shall mean (i) any person providing services as an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary, whether or not employed by such entity, including any such person who is also a director of the Company, (ii) any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, including any director who is also an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, (iii) any officer or employee of an entity with which the Company has contracted to receive executive, management or legal services who provides services to the Company or a Subsidiary through such arrangement, (iv) any consultant or adviser to the Company, a Subsidiary or to an entity described in clause (iii) hereof who provides services to the Company or a Subsidiary through such arrangement and (v) any person who has agreed in writing to become a person described in
 
1
 
c
lauses (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) within not more than 30 days following the date of grant of such persons first Award under the Plan.
 
Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
 
Incentive Stock Option shall mean an option granted under Section 6 of the Plan that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
 
Nonqualified Stock Option shall mean an option granted under Section 6 of the Plan that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
 
Option shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option granted under Section 6 of the Plan.
 
Other Stock Based Award shall mean any right or award granted under Section 10 of the Plan.
 
Participant shall mean any Eligible Individual granted an Award under the Plan.
 
Person shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or political subdivision thereof or other entity.
 
Restricted Stock shall mean any restricted stock granted under Section 8 of the Plan.
 
Restricted Stock Unit shall mean any restricted stock unit granted under Section 9 of the Plan.
 
Section 162(m) shall mean Section 162(m) of the Code and all regulations promulgated thereunder as in effect from time to time.
 
Section 409A shall mean Section 409A of the Code and all regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder as in effect from time to time.
 
Shares shall mean the shares of Common Stock of the Company and such other securities of the Company or a Subsidiary as the Committee may from time to time designate.
 
Stock Appreciation Right shall mean any right granted under Section 7 of the Plan.
 
Subsidiary shall mean (i) any corporation or other entity in which the Company possesses directly or indirectly equity interests representing at least 50% of the total ordinary voting power or at least 50% of the total value of all classes of equity interests of such corporation or other entity and (ii) any other entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect economic interest that is designated as a Subsidiary by the Committee.
 
2
 
(a)
  
.  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, and in addition to other express powers and authorizations conferred on the Committee by the Plan, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to an Eligible Individual; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by, or with respect to which payments, rights or other matters are to be calculated in connection with, Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, whole Shares, other whole securities, other Awards, other property or other cash amounts payable by the Company upon the exercise of that or other Awards, or canceled, forfeited or suspended and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable by the Company with respect to an Award shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Committee; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (ix) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, may be made at any time and shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Subsidiary, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any stockholder of the Company and any Eligible Individual.
Administration
 
(b)
  
.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, the Committee may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority, subject to such terms and limitations as the Committee shall determine, to grant and set the terms of, to cancel, modify or waive rights with respect to, or to alter, discontinue, suspend, or terminate Awards held by Eligible Individuals who are not officers or directors of the Company for purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, or any successor section thereto, or who are otherwise not subject to such Section; provided, however, that the per share exercise price of any Option granted under this Section 3(b) shall be equal to the fair market value of the underlying Shares on the date of grant.
Delegation
 
 
.  Any Eligible Individual shall be eligible to be granted an Award.
Eligibility
 
 
(a)
  
.  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5(b):
Shares Available for Awards
 
(i)
  
.
Calculation of Number of Shares Available
 
(A)
  
Subject to the other provisions of this Section 5(a), the number of Shares with respect to which Awards payable in Shares may be granted under the Plan shall be
3
 
37,000,000 shares of  Common Stock.  Awards that by their terms may be settled only in cash shall not be counted against the maximum number of Shares provided herein.
 
(B)
  
The number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options may not exceed 37,000,000 Shares.
 
(C)
  
Subject to the other provisions of this Section 5(a):
 
(1)
  
the maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards in the form of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares for which a per share purchase price that is less than 100% of the fair market value of the securities to which the Award relates shall be 11,000,000 Shares; and
 
(2)
  
no more than 1,500,000 Shares may be issued pursuant to Awards in the form of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares without compliance with the minimum vesting periods set forth in Sections 8(b), 9(b) and 10(b), respectively.  If (x) Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or an Other Stock-Based Award is granted with a minimum vesting period of at least three years or a minimum vesting period of at least one year and subject to the attainment of specific performance goals, and (y) the vesting of such Award is accelerated in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof as a result of the Participants death, retirement or other termination of employment or cessation of consulting or advisory services to the Company, or a change in control of the Company, such Shares shall not count against the 1,500,000 limitation described herein.
 
(D)
  
To the extent any Shares covered by an Award are not issued because the Award is forfeited or canceled or the Award is settled in cash, such Shares shall again be available for grant pursuant to new Awards under the Plan.
 
(E)
  
In the event that Shares are issued as Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards under the Plan and thereafter are forfeited or reacquired by the Company pursuant to rights reserved upon issuance thereof, such Shares shall again be available for grant pursuant to new Awards under the Plan.  With respect to Stock Appreciation Rights, if the Award is payable in Shares, all Shares to which the Award relates shall be counted against the Plan limits, rather than the net number of Shares delivered upon exercise of the Award.
 
(ii)
  
.  Any Shares delivered pursuant to an Award may consist of authorized and unissued Shares or of treasury Shares, including Shares held by the Company or a Subsidiary and Shares acquired in the open market or otherwise obtained by the Company or a Subsidiary.  The issuance of Shares may be effected on a non-certificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of any stock exchange.
Shares Deliverable Under Awards
 
(iii)
  
.  Any provision of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no individual may receive in any year Awards under the Plan, whether payable in cash or Shares, that relate to more than 3,750,000 Shares.
Individual Limit
 
(iv)
  
.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and the overall limitation on the number of Shares that may be delivered under the Plan, the Committee may use available
Use of Shares
 
4
 
Shares as the form of payment for compensation, grants or rights earned or due under any other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company or a Subsidiary, including, but not limited to, the Companys Annual Incentive Plan and the plans or arrangements of the Company or a Subsidiary assumed in business combinations.
 
(b)
  
.  In the event that the Committee determines that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, Subsidiary securities, other securities or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split up, spin off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee to be appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust any or all of (i) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) with respect to which Awards may be granted, (ii) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (iii) the grant or exercise price with respect to any Award and, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award and, if deemed appropriate, adjust outstanding Awards to provide the rights contemplated by Section 11(b) hereof; provided, in each case, that with respect to Awards of Incentive Stock Options no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to violate Section 422(b)(1) of the Code or any successor provision thereto and, with respect to all Awards under the Plan, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the requirements for full deductibility under Section 162(m); and provided further that the number of Shares subject to any Award denominated in Shares shall always be a whole number.
Adjustments
 
(c)
  
.  The Committee shall determine at the time of grant if a grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Stock-Based Award is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation as that term is used in Section 162(m).  Any such grant shall be conditioned on the achievement of one or more performance measures.  The performance measures pursuant to which the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Stock-Based Award shall vest shall be any or a combination of the following:  earnings per share, return on assets, an economic value added measure, shareholder return, earnings, return on equity, return on investment, cash provided by operating activities, increase in cash flow, return on cash flow, or increase in production of the Company, a division of the Company or a Subsidiary.  For any performance period, such performance objectives may be measured on an absolute basis or relative to a group of peer companies selected by the Committee, relative to internal goals or relative to levels attained in prior years.  For grants of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other Stock-Based Awards intended to qualify as performance-based compensation, the grants and the establishment of performance measures shall be made during the period required under Section 162(m).
Performance Goals for Section 162(m) Awards
 
 
(a)
  
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Options shall be
Stock Options
 
5
 
granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Option, the option price thereof and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Option and the other terms thereof.  The Committee shall have the authority to grant Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options or both.  In the case of Incentive Stock Options, the terms and conditions of such grants shall be subject to and comply with such rules as may be required by Section 422 of the Code, as from time to time amended, and any implementing regulations.  Except in the case of an Option granted in assumption of or substitution for an outstanding award of a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines, the exercise price of any Option granted under this Plan shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the underlying Shares on the date of grant.
 
(b)
  
.  Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, specify in the applicable Award Agreement or thereafter, provided, however, that in no event may any Option granted hereunder be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years after the date of such grant.  The Committee may impose such conditions with respect to the exercise of Options, including without limitation, any condition relating to the application of Federal or state securities laws, as it may deem necessary or advisable.  An Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving written notice to the Company, specifying the number of Shares to be purchased.  The exercise notice shall be accompanied by the full purchase price for the Shares.
Exercise
 
(c)
  
.  The Option price shall be payable in United States dollars and may be paid by (i) cash or cash equivalent; (ii) delivery of shares of Common Stock, subject to any holding periods established by the Committee; (iii) through a cashless exercise arrangement with a broker approved in advance by the Committee; (iv) if approved by the Committee, through a net exercise procedure whereby the Optionee surrenders the Option in exchange for that number of shares of Common Stock with an aggregate fair market value equal to the difference between the aggregate exercise price of the options being surrendered and the aggregate fair market value of the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option; or (v) in such other manner as may be authorized from time to time by the Committee.  In the event shares of  Common Stock are delivered or withheld pursuant to (ii) or (iv) above, as applicable, the shares shall be valued at the fair market value (valued in accordance with procedures established by the Committee) on the effective date of the exercise.  Prior to the issuance of Shares upon the exercise of an Option, a Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder.
Payment
 
 
(a)
  
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Stock Appreciation Rights shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Award of Stock Appreciation Rights, the grant price thereof and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right and the other terms thereof.  Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with another Award, in addition to another Award, or freestanding and unrelated to any other Award.  Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with or in addition to an Option or other Award may be granted either at the same time as the Option or other Award or at a later time.  Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years after the date of grant.  Except in the case of a Stock Appreciation
Stock Appreciation Rights
 
6
 
Right granted in assumption of or substitution for an outstanding award of a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines, the grant price of any Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the Shares covered by such Stock Appreciation Right on the date of grant or, in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a then outstanding Option or other Award, on the date of grant of such related Option or Award if permitted by Section 409A.
 
(b)
  
A Stock Appreciation Right shall entitle the holder thereof to receive upon exercise, for each Share to which the Stock Appreciation Right relates, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of a Share on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the grant price.  The Committee shall determine at the time of grant of a Stock Appreciation Right whether it shall be settled in cash, Shares or a combination of cash and Shares.
 
 
(a)
  
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Restricted Stock shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Award of Restricted Stock and the terms, conditions, and limitations applicable thereto.  An Award of Restricted Stock may be subject to the attainment of specified performance goals or targets, restrictions on transfer, forfeitability provisions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, subject to the provisions of the Plan.  An award of Restricted Stock may be made in lieu of the payment of cash compensation otherwise due to an Eligible Individual.  To the extent that Restricted Stock is intended to qualify as performance- based compensation under Section 162(m), it must be made subject to the attainment of one or more of the performance goals specified in Section 5(c) hereof and meet the additional requirements imposed by Section 162(m).
Restricted Stock
 
(b)
  
.  At the time that an Award of Restricted Stock is made, the Committee shall establish a period of time during which the transfer of the Shares of Restricted Stock shall be restricted (the Restricted Period).  Each Award of Restricted Stock may have a different Restricted Period.  Except for Restricted Stock that vests on the attainment of performance goals, and except as provided in Section 5(a)(i)(C)(2), a Restricted Period of at least three years is required, with incremental vesting of the Award over the three-year period permitted.  If the grant or vesting of the Shares is subject to the attainment of specified performance goals, a Restricted Period of at least one year with incremental vesting is permitted.  The expiration of the Restricted Period shall also occur as provided in the Award Agreement in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof.
The Restricted Period
 
(c)
  
.  The Participant receiving Restricted Stock shall enter into an Award Agreement with the Company setting forth the conditions of the grant.  Any certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock shall be registered in the name of the Participant and deposited with the Company, together with a stock power endorsed in blank by the Participant.  Each such certificate shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Escrow
 
The transferability of this certificate and the shares of Common Stock represented by it are subject to the terms and conditions (including conditions of forfeiture)
 
7
 
contained in the Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) and a notice of grant issued thereunder to the registered owner by Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  Copies of the Plan and the notice of grant are on file at the principal office of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
 
 
If the Shares of Restricted Stock are represented by book or electronic entry rather than a certificate, the Company shall take such steps to restrict transfer of the Restricted Stock as counsel for the Company deems necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law.
 
(d)
  
.  Any and all cash and stock dividends paid with respect to the Shares of Restricted Stock shall be subject to any restrictions on transfer, forfeitability provisions or reinvestment requirements as the Committee may, in its discretion, prescribe in the Award Agreement.
Dividends on Restricted Stock
 
(e)
  
.  In the event of the forfeiture of any Shares of Restricted Stock under the terms provided in the Award Agreement (including any additional Shares of Restricted Stock that may result from the reinvestment of cash and stock dividends, if so provided in the Award Agreement), such forfeited shares shall be surrendered and any certificates canceled.  The Participants shall have the same rights and privileges, and be subject to the same forfeiture provisions, with respect to any additional Shares received pursuant to Section 5(b) or Section 11(b) due to a recapitalization, merger or other change in capitalization.
Forfeiture
 
(f)
  
.  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and the satisfaction of any other conditions prescribed by the Committee or at such earlier time as provided in the Award Agreement or an amendment thereto, the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock shall lapse and a stock certificate for the number of Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which the restrictions have lapsed shall be delivered or book or electronic entry evidencing ownership shall be provided, free of all such restrictions and legends, except any that may be imposed by law, to the Participant or the Participants estate, as the case may be.
Expiration of Restricted Period
 
(g)
  
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and subject to any restrictions on the receipt of dividends that may be imposed in the Award Agreement, each Participant receiving Restricted Stock shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares of stock during any period in which such Shares are subject to forfeiture and restrictions on transfer, including without limitation, the right to vote such Shares.
Rights as a Stockholder
 
 
(a)
  
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Restricted Stock Units shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Award of Restricted Stock Units and the terms, conditions, and limitations applicable thereto.  An Award of Restricted Stock Units is a right to receive shares of Common Stock in the future and may be subject to the attainment of specified performance goals or targets, restrictions on transfer, forfeitability provisions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, subject to the provisions of the Plan.  An award of Restricted Stock Units may be made in lieu of the payment
Restricted Stock Units
 
8
 
of cash compensation otherwise due to an Eligible Individual.  To the extent that an Award of Restricted Stock Units is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), it must be made subject to the attainment of one or more of the performance goals specified in Section 5(c) hereof and meet the additional requirements imposed by Section 162(m).
 
(b)
  
.  At the time that an Award of Restricted Stock Units is made, the Committee shall establish a period of time during which the Restricted Stock Units shall vest (the Vesting Period).  Each Award of Restricted Stock may have a different Vesting Period.  Except for Restricted Stock Units that vest based on the attainment of performance goals, and except as provided in Section 5(a)(i)(C)(2), a Vesting Period of at least three years is required with incremental vesting of the Award over the three-year period permitted.  If the grant or vesting is subject to the attainment of specified performance goals, a Vesting Period of at least one year with incremental vesting is permitted.  The expiration of the Vesting Period shall also occur as provided in the Award Agreement in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof.
The Vesting Period
 
(c)
  
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and subject to any restrictions that may be imposed in the Award Agreement, each Participant receiving Restricted Stock Units shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to such Restricted Stock Units until such time as Shares are issued to the Participant.
Rights as a Stockholder
 
 
(a)
  
.  The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Eligible Individuals an Other Stock-Based Award, which shall consist of an Award that is not an instrument or Award specified in Sections 6 through 9 of this Plan, the value of which is based in whole or in part on the value of Shares.  Other Stock Based Awards may be awards of Shares or may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for Shares), as deemed by the Committee consistent with the purposes of the Plan.  The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Other Stock Based Award and may provide that such awards would be payable in whole or in part in cash.  To the extent that an Other Stock-Based Award is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), it must be made subject to the attainment of one or more of the performance goals specified in Section 5(c) hereof and meet the additional requirements imposed by Section 162(m).
Other Stock Based Awards
 
(b)
  
.  Except for Other Stock-Based Awards that vest based on the attainment of performance goals, and except as provided in Section 5(a)(i)(C)(2), a vesting period of at least three years is required with incremental vesting of the Award over the three-year period permitted.  If the grant or vesting is subject to the attainment of specified performance goals, a vesting period of at least one year with incremental vesting is permitted.  The expiration of the vesting period shall also occur as provided in the Award Agreement in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof.
Limitations
 
(c)
  
.  In the sole and complete discretion of the Committee, an Award, whether made as an Other Stock-Based Award under this Section 10 or as an Award
Dividend Equivalents
 
9
 
granted pursuant to Sections 6 through 9 hereof, may provide the holder thereof with dividends or dividend equivalents, payable in cash, Shares, Subsidiary securities, other securities or other property on a current or deferred basis.
 
 
(a)
  
.  The Board may amend or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that no such amendment may
Amendment or Discontinuance of the Plan
 
(i)
  
without the approval of the stockholders, (a) increase, subject to adjustments permitted herein, the maximum number of shares of  Common Stock that may be issued through the Plan, (b) materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan, (c) materially expand the classes of persons eligible to participate in the Plan, (d) expand the types of Awards available for grant under the Plan, (e) materially extend the term of the Plan, (f) materially change the method of determining the exercise price of Options or the grant price of Stock Appreciation Rights, and (g) amend Section 11(c) to permit a reduction in the exercise price of Options; or
 
(ii)
  
materially impair, without the consent of the recipient, an Award previously granted.
 
(b)
  
.  The Committee is hereby authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 5(b) hereof) affecting the Company, or the financial statements of the Company or any Subsidiary, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan.
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
 
(c)
  
.  Any provision of this Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Committee may cause any Award granted hereunder to be canceled in consideration of a cash payment or alternative Award made to the holder of such canceled Award equal in value to such canceled Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, except for adjustments permitted under Sections 5(b) and 11(b), no action by the Committee shall, unless approved by the stockholders of the Company, (i) cause a reduction in the exercise price of Options granted under the Plan or (ii) permit an outstanding Option with an exercise price greater than the current fair market value of a Share to be surrendered as consideration for a new Option with a lower exercise price, shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Other Stock-Based Awards, a cash payment or Common Stock.  The determinations of value under this subparagraph shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Cancellation
 
 
(a)
  
.  Each Award hereunder shall be evidenced by an agreement or notice delivered to the Participant (by paper copy or electronically) that shall specify the terms and conditions thereof and any rules applicable thereto, including but not limited to the effect on such Award of the death, retirement or other termination of employment or cessation of
Award Agreements
 
10
 
consulting or advisory services of the Participant and the effect thereon, if any, of a change in control of the Company.
 
(b)
  
.    A Participant shall be required to pay to the Company, and the Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid to a Participant (whether under the Plan or otherwise), any taxes required by law to be paid or withheld in respect of Awards hereunder to such Participant.  The Committee may provide for additional cash payments to holders of Awards to defray or offset any tax arising from the grant, vesting, exercise or payment of any Award.
Withholding
(i)
 
(ii)
  
At any time that a Participant is required to pay to the Company an amount required to be withheld under the applicable tax laws in connection with the issuance of Shares under the Plan, the Participant may, if permitted by the Committee, satisfy this obligation in whole or in part by delivering currently owned Shares or by electing (the Election) to have the Company withhold from the issuance Shares, which Shares shall have a value equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld.  The value of the Shares delivered or withheld shall be based on the fair market value of the Shares on the date as of which the amount of tax to be withheld shall be determined in accordance with applicable tax laws (the Tax Date).
 
(iii)
  
Each Election to have Shares withheld must be made prior to the Tax Date.  If a Participant wishes to deliver Shares in payment of taxes, the Participant must so notify the Company prior to the Tax Date.
 
(c)
  
.  No Awards granted hereunder may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise encumbered by a Participant except: (i) by will; (ii) by the laws of descent and distribution; (iii) pursuant to a domestic relations order, as defined in the Code, if permitted by the Committee and so provided in the Award Agreement or an amendment thereto; or (iv) if permitted by the Committee and so provided in the Award Agreement or an amendment thereto, Options may be transferred or assigned (w) to Immediate Family Members, (x) to a partnership in which Immediate Family Members, or entities in which Immediate Family Members are the owners, members or beneficiaries, as appropriate, are the partners, (y) to a limited liability company in which Immediate Family Members, or entities in which Immediate Family Members are the owners, members or beneficiaries, as appropriate, are the members, or (z) to a trust for the benefit of Immediate Family Members; provided, however, that no more than a de minimus beneficial interest in a partnership, limited liability company or trust described in (x), (y) or (z) above may be owned by a person who is not an Immediate Family Member or by an entity that is not beneficially owned solely by Immediate Family Members.  Immediate Family Members shall be defined as the spouse and natural or adopted children or grandchildren of the Participant and their spouses.  To the extent that an Incentive Stock Option is permitted to be transferred during the lifetime of the Participant, it shall be treated thereafter as a Nonqualified Stock Option.  Any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition of Awards, or levy of attachment or similar process upon Awards not specifically permitted herein, shall be null and void and without effect.  The designation of a Designated Beneficiary shall not be a violation of this Section 12(c).
Transferability
 
(d)
  
.  All certificates or book or electronic entry ownership evidence for Shares or other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise
Share Certificates
 
11
 
thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable federal or state laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
 
(e)
  
.  Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other compensation arrangements, which may, but need not, provide for the grant of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, and other types of Awards provided for hereunder (subject to stockholder approval of any such arrangement if approval is required), and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
No Limit on Other Compensation Arrangements
 
(f)
  
.  The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of or as a consultant or adviser to the Company or any Subsidiary or in the employ of or as a consultant or adviser to any other entity providing services to the Company.  The Company or any Subsidiary or any such entity may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, or terminate any arrangement pursuant to which the Participant provides services to the Company or a Subsidiary, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.  No Eligible Individual or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Eligible Individuals, Participants or holders or beneficiaries of Awards.
No Right to Employment
 
(g)
  
.  The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan, any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and any Award Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
 
(h)
  
.  If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any Person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Person or Award and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
 
(i)
  
.  Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and a Participant or any other Person.  To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.
No Trust or Fund Created
 
(j)
  
.  No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall determine whether cash, other securities or other property shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
 
12
 
(k)
  
.  Payment of cash or distribution of any Shares to which a Participant is entitled under any Award shall be made as provided in the Award Agreement.  Payment may be deferred at the option of the Participant if provided in the Award Agreement.
Deferral Permitted
 
(l)
  
.  The Company intends that Awards granted under the Plan, or any deferrals thereof, will comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and all regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder, to the extent applicable.
Compliance with Law
 
(m)
  
.  Headings are given to the subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference.  Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.
Headings
 
 
.  Subject to Section 11(a), no Awards may be granted under the Plan after July 10, 2017, which is ten years after the date the Plan was last approved by the Companys stockholders; provided, however, that Awards granted prior to such date shall remain in effect until such Awards have either been satisfied, expired or canceled under the terms of the Plan, and any restrictions imposed on Shares in connection with their issuance under the Plan have lapsed.
Term of the Plan
 
 
    
13


