FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20071024172552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated October 24, 2007, announcing its third-quarter and nine-month 2007 results (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its October 24, 2007, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: \s\ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 24, 2007
2
Exhibit
Number

Exhibit 99.1
 
1
 
 
 
PHOENIX, AZ, October 24, 2007  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported third-quarter 2007 income from continuing operations applicable to common stock of $763 million, $1.85 per share, compared with $351 million, $1.67 per share, for the third quarter of 2006.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, FCX reported income from continuing operations applicable to common stock of $2.3 billion, $6.46 per share, compared with $970 million, $4.64 per share, in the 2006 period.  FCXs nine-month 2007 financial and operating results include its wholly owned subsidiary Phelps Dodges results following its acquisition by FCX on March 19, 2007.
 
Results for the 2007 periods included the following special items:
 
Third-quarter 2006 results included net losses on debt reductions totaling $43 million ($36 million to net income or $0.16 per share).  Results for the first nine months of 2006 included net losses on debt reductions totaling $114 million ($74 million to net income or $0.33 per share), including a $69 million ($37 million to net income or $0.17 per share) loss on the redemption of FCXs Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock, Series II.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, Chief Executive Officer, said, Our third-quarter performance reflects a continuation of positive market conditions for copper, gold and molybdenum and strong operating results at our North American, South American and Indonesian operations.  We are optimistic about the outlook to deliver strong volumes of metals which will enable us to generate significant cash flows, invest in attractive development projects, achieve our debt reduction objectives and provide returns to shareholders.
 
 
2
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
Note: Disclosures of after-tax amounts throughout this release are calculated by reference to the applicable tax rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
SUMMARY CONTRIBUTION ANALYSIS
 
FCXs operating performance, including Phelps Dodges results beginning March 20, 2007, and the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, is shown below for the 2007 periods (in millions):
 
 
 
 
4
 
  During the third quarter of 2007, FCX made adjustments to its preliminary purchase price allocation based on updated valuation models for its mill and leach stockpiles resulting in an approximate $1.0 billion increase in the related estimated fair values.  The increase in these fair values resulted in higher net purchase accounting impacts than previous estimates for the third quarter ($446 million pre-tax for third quarter actual compared to $300 million pre-tax in previous estimates).  FCX is continuing to work with third-party consultants to assign fair values to all assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition.  Further changes to the preliminary values could be significant and could result in changes to reported interim financial results.  A current summary of the preliminary purchase price allocation to the assets and liabilities on March 19, 2007, follows (in billions):
Purchase Accounting
.
 
 
The following table summarizes the estimated impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments on 2007 production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense associated with the increases in the carrying values of Phelps Dodges metal inventories, mill and leach stockpiles and property, plant and equipment resulting from the acquisition of Phelps Dodge.  These charges do not affect cash flows and are subject to change as FCX completes the final purchase price allocation.
 
 
 
OPERATIONS
 
Consolidated copper sales of 949 million pounds in the third quarter of 2007 were higher than previous estimates of 900 million pounds reported on July 25, 2007, primarily because of a reduction in inventories resulting from the timing of shipments.  Consolidated gold sales of 269,000 ounces in third-quarter 2007 were substantially higher than previous estimates because of mine sequencing at the Grasberg mine in Indonesia.  As expected, consolidated gold sales in the 2007 third quarter were lower than the year ago period because of mining a section of lower grade ore.  Consolidated unit net cash costs of $1.05 per pound were higher than the year-ago period primarily because of lower volumes at our Indonesian operations and higher costs in North America.  Assuming average prices of $3.50 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $30 per pound for molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2007, unit net cash costs for the year 2007 would average approximately $0.75 per pound.
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
  FCX operates five open-pit copper mining complexes in North America (Morenci, Bagdad and Sierrita in Arizona and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico) and conducts primary molybdenum mining operations at the Henderson mine in Colorado.  By-product molybdenum is produced at Sierrita, Bagdad, Chino and Morenci.  In addition, a new copper mining complex is under construction at Safford, Arizona, and FCX is assessing the restart of the Climax primary molybdenum mine in Colorado.  All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.  The North American copper mining operations are operated in an integrated fashion and have long-lived reserves with significant additional development potential.
North American Mining
.
 
 
 
 
6
 
Consolidated copper sales in North America totaled 376 million pounds in the third quarter of 2007, higher than the pro forma 2006 sales because of increased production at Morenci and Bagdad and the timing of shipments.  Consolidated copper sales from North American operations totaled 1.3 billion pounds in 2006 and are expected to approximate 1.3 billion pounds for the full year 2007.  Consolidated copper sales from North American operations are expected to approximate 325 million pounds in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum through the Henderson molybdenum mine and as a by-product at several of its copper mines.  The Henderson block-cave underground mining complex produces high-purity, chemical-grade molybdenum concentrates, which are further processed into value-added molybdenum chemical products.  A feasibility study is nearing completion for reopening the Climax open-pit molybdenum mine, which has been on care-and-maintenance status since 1995.
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales from the primary and by-product mines totaled 69 million pounds in 2006 and are expected to approximate 68 million pounds for the full year 2007.  Consolidated molybdenum sales are expected to approximate 18 million pounds in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
Approximately 65 percent of FCXs expected 2007 and approximately 75 percent of expected 2008 molybdenum production is committed for sale throughout the world pursuant to annual or quarterly agreements based primarily on prevailing market prices one month prior to the time of sale.  The Dealer Oxide closing price for molybdenum on October 22, 2007, was $32.125 per pound.
Metals Week
 
  The following table summarizes third-quarter 2007 actual unit net cash costs at the North American copper mines and pro forma unit net cash costs for the third quarter of 2006 and the first nine months of 2007 and 2006.
Unit Net Cash Costs
for North American Copper Mines
.
 
 
 
North American unit net cash costs were higher in the third quarter of 2007 compared with the third quarter of 2006 primarily because of higher maintenance, labor and other input costs.
 
Assuming an average copper price of $3.50 per pound and an average molybdenum price of $30 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2007 and achievement of current 2007 sales estimates, FCX estimates that its pro forma 2007 average unit net cash costs for its North American mines, including molybdenum credits, would approximate $0.80 per pound of copper.
 
  Third-quarter 2007 unit net cash costs of $4.34 per pound of molybdenum at the Henderson primary molybdenum mine were higher, compared with pro forma unit net cash costs of $3.92 per pound for the 2006 quarter, primarily because of higher input costs, including labor, supplies and service costs, and higher taxes, partially offset by lower energy costs.  Assuming achievement of current 2007 sales estimates, FCX estimates pro forma 2007 average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine at approximately $4.30 per pound of molybdenum.
Unit Net Cash Costs
for Primary Molybdenum Mine
.
 
7
 
 
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile and Cerro Verde in Peru.  These operations are consolidated in FCXs financial statements, with outside ownership reported as minority interests.
South American Mining
.
 
FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use certain common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.  FCX owns a 53.6 percent equity interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper concentrates.  Cerro Verde recently completed a $900 million expansion project to process sulfide ore reserves through a new concentrator.  The new concentrator reached full capacity in mid-2007 and averaged 104,700 metric tons of ore per day in the third quarter.
 
 
South American copper sales in the third quarter of 2007 were higher than in the third quarter of 2006 primarily reflecting higher production from Cerro Verdes new concentrator (see page 11), partly offset by lower production at El Abra.  Consolidated copper sales totaled 1.1 billion pounds from South American operations in 2006 and are expected to approximate 1.4 billion pounds for the full year 2007.  Consolidated copper sales volumes from South American operations are expected to total 385 million pounds in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The projected increases for full-year 2007, compared with full-year 2006, include incremental production from the new Cerro Verde concentrator.
 
  The following table summarizes third-quarter 2007 actual unit net cash costs at the South American copper mines and pro forma unit net cash costs for the third quarter of 2006 and the first nine months of 2007 and 2006.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
 
South American unit net cash costs were higher in the third quarter of 2007 compared with the third quarter of 2006 primarily because of costs associated with Cerro Verdes voluntary contribution program and higher energy, maintenance and other costs, partly offset by higher volumes.  During the quarter, FCX agreed to the 5-year voluntary contribution program in Peru, resulting in a $33 million charge, $0.09 per pound, including $23 million, $0.06 per pound, related to production prior to the third quarter of 2007.  The contribution in future periods is expected to be 3.75 percent of Cerro Verde profits.  These amounts are not tax deductible.
 
8
Assuming achievement of current 2007 sales estimates, FCX estimates that its pro forma annual 2007 average unit net cash costs for its South American mines, including gold credits, would approximate $1.00 per pound of copper.
 
  Through its 90.6 percent owned subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia. After mining a high-grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first half of 2007, PT-FI mined in a relatively low-grade section in the third quarter of 2007.  Therefore, PT-FI reported lower third-quarter 2007 sales volumes compared with the third quarter of 2006.  Gold volumes were higher than previous estimates primarily because of changes in the timing of access to higher grade ore in the Grasberg open pit.
Indonesian Mining
.
 
 
FCXs consolidated share of annual sales from Indonesia in 2007 is projected to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper and over 2.1 million ounces of gold, in excess of 100,000 ounces higher than previous estimates because of higher ore grades.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production, resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.  PT-FI expects to be mining in a relatively low-grade section of the Grasberg open pit in the fourth quarter of 2007 and in the first half of 2008.  As a result, fourth-quarter 2007 projected sales volumes, totaling approximately 165 million pounds of copper and 70 thousand ounces of gold, reflect the processing of lower ore grades.
 
  PT-FIs unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, averaged $1.30 per pound of copper during the third quarter of 2007, compared with $0.70 per pound in the 2006 quarter.  The higher unit net cash costs in the 2007 quarter compared with the 2006 quarter reflect the significantly lower copper and gold volumes, partly offset by higher gold prices.  Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.  Because the majority of PT-FIs costs are fixed, unit costs vary with the volumes sold and the price of gold, and therefore are currently projected to be significantly higher during the second half of 2007 than the average net cash credits of $0.25 per pound in the first half of the year.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
 
9
 
Assuming average copper prices of $3.50 per pound and average gold prices of $750 per ounce for the fourth quarter of 2007 and achievement of current 2007 sales estimates, PT-FI estimates that its annual 2007 unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, would approximate $0.36 per pound.
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
At September 30, 2007, FCXs consolidated copper sales included 442 million pounds of copper, priced at an average of $3.65 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change in the price realized from the September 30, 2007, price would result in an approximate $15 million effect on FCXs 2007 net income.  The LME closing spot price for copper on October 23, 2007 was $3.55 per pound.  Third-quarter 2007 adjustments to concentrate sales recognized in prior quarters decreased revenues by $37 million ($22 million to net income or $0.05 per share) compared with an increase of $33 million ($18 million to net income or $0.08 per share) in the third quarter of 2006.
 
Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned Spanish smelting unit, reported operating income of $1 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared with operating income of $20 million in the 2006 period.  Operating income was lower in the 2007 quarter because of lower treatment rates and higher operating costs resulting from a stronger euro and higher energy costs.  In June 2007, Atlantic Copper successfully completed a scheduled 23-day maintenance turnaround which impacted operating results by approximately $24 million in the first nine months of 2007.
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on PT-FIs sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until the final sales to third parties occur.  Changes in these net deferrals resulted in an addition to FCXs net income totaling $91 million, $0.20 per share, in the third quarter of 2007, and a reduction to net income of $11 million, $0.03 per share, in the first nine months of 2007.  For the 2006 periods, changes in these net deferrals resulted in a reduction to FCXs net income totaling $44 million, $0.20 per share, in the third quarter and an addition to net income of $13 million, $0.06 per share, in the first nine months.  At September 30, 2007, FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and minority interest sharing totaled $112 million.  Based on copper prices of $3.50 per pound and gold prices of $750 per ounce for the fourth quarter of 2007 and current shipping schedules, FCX estimates that the net change in these deferred profits on intercompany sales will result in an increase to net income of approximately $40 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The actual change in deferred intercompany profits may differ substantially from this estimate because of changes in the timing of shipments to affiliated smelters and metal prices.
 
  On September 12, 2007, FCX entered into an agreement to sell its international wire and cable business, PDIC, for $735 million including the acquisition of minority interests.  Accordingly, PDICs operating results have been reported as discontinued operations in FCXs condensed consolidated statements of income; and PDICs assets and liabilities have been reported as held for sale in FCXs condensed consolidated balance sheets.  Income from discontinued operations for PDIC totaled $12 million, $0.02 per share, in the third quarter of 2007 and $44 million, $0.12 per share, in the first nine months of 2007.  The sale of PDIC is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2007.  FCX expects to use the estimated net proceeds of approximately $620 million to repay debt.  FCX expects to record charges of up to approximately $20 million ($12 million to net income) for transaction and related costs associated with the disposition.
Discontinued Operations
.
 
 
DEVELOPMENT and EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
  FCX has significant development activities under way to expand its production capacity, extend its mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies.  Current major projects include the recent expansion of Cerro Verde; construction of a major new mining complex at Safford, Arizona; the restart of a mill and the construction of a concentrate-leach, direct-electrowinning facility at Morenci; a sulfide leach project to extend the mine life at El Abra; various projects to develop the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies in the Grasberg district; potential restart of a large, high-grade primary molybdenum mine at Climax and development of the highly prospective Tenke Fungurume project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Development Activities
.
 
10
In addition to the projects currently under way, FCX is undertaking a review of its assets to evaluate the potential for incremental expansion opportunities associated with existing ore bodies.
 
  Construction of the concentrate-leach, direct electrowinning facility at is essentially complete and the facility is currently being commissioned.  This project uses FCXs proprietary medium-temperature, pressure-leaching and direct-electrowinning technology which will enhance cost savings by processing concentrate on-site instead of shipping concentrate to smelters for treatment.  With the recent restart of the mill, this project is designed to add 115 million pounds of copper per year.  The overall project required a total capital investment of approximately $250 million.
North America.
Morenci
 
The copper mine will produce ore from two open-pit mines located in southeastern Arizona and includes a solution extraction/electrowinning facility.  Construction commenced in August 2006 and is nearing completion.  First production is expected in late 2007, with ramp-up to full production of approximately 240 million pounds per year in the first half of 2008.  The total capital investment for this project approximates $625 million.  FCX believes there is significant additional exploration and development potential in this district, including the Lone Star project.
Safford
 
FCX is in the final stages of evaluating the restart of the mine near Leadville, Colorado.  Climax is believed to be the largest, highest grade and lowest cost undeveloped molybdenum ore body in the world.  The initial project would involve the restart of open pit mining and the construction of a new mill.  Annual production would approximate 30 million pounds of molybdenum at estimated cash costs approximating $3.50 per pound.  Capital costs estimates for the initial project approximate $500 million and the facilities could be in operation by 2010.  Long lead time equipment has been ordered and a final investment decision is expected by year-end 2007.  The evaluation is expected to confirm the restart as an attractive economic project. The project is designed to enable the consideration of further large scale expansion and FCX will consider a second phase of the Climax project which could potentially double annual molybdenum production.
Climax
 
recently completed $900 million mill expansion project to process sulfide ore reserves through a new concentrator is performing well.  In June 2007, the mill reached design capacity of 108,000 metric tons of ore per day and averaged 104,700 metric tons per day in the third quarter.  With the completion of the expansion, copper production at Cerro Verde is expected to approximate 650 million pounds per year (approximately 348 million pounds per year for FCXs share).  In addition, the expansion is expected to produce an average of approximately 8 million pounds of molybdenum per year (approximately 4 million pounds per year for FCXs share) for the next five years.
South America. 
Cerro Verde
s
 
At the end of 2006, a feasibility study was completed to evaluate the development of the large sulfide deposit at .  This project would extend the mine life by nine years and copper production from the sulfides is targeted to begin in 2010.  The existing facilities at El Abra would be used to process the additional reserves, minimizing capital spending requirements.  Total initial capital for the project is approximately $450 million, the majority of which will be spent between 2008 and 2011.  In March 2007, an environmental impact study associated with the sulfide project was submitted to Chilean authorities.
El
A
bra
 
  PT-FI has several projects in progress throughout the , including developing its large-scale underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit.  The Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) 50,000 metric tons of ore per day expansion is complete with third-quarter rates averaging 55,600 metric tons per day.  A further expansion to 80,000 metric tons per day is under way with completion targeted by 2010.  Other projects include the development of the high-grade Big Gossan mine, expected to ramp-up to full production of 7,000 metric tons per day in late 2010, the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, which will provide access to the Grasberg underground ore body, the Kucing Liar ore body and future development of the mineralized areas below the DOZ mine.
Indonesia.
Grasberg District
 
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the copper/cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  FCX is the operator of the project.  The initial project at Tenke Fungurume is based on ore reserves of 103 million metric tons with ore grades of 2.1 percent copper and 0.3 percent cobalt.  Based on the current mine plan, ore grades for the first ten years are expected to average 4.6 percent copper and 0.4 percent cobalt.  Construction of this high potential project is in progress.
Africa.
Tenke Fungurume
 
11
 
Operations are targeted to commence in 2009, with average annual production of approximately 250 million pounds of copper and approximately 18 million pounds of cobalt for the first 10 years.  Based on the feasibility study, which assumes a long-term cobalt price of $12 per pound, life-of-mine unit net cash costs after by-product credits are estimated to be a net credit of $0.19 per pound of copper.
 
FCX is responsible for funding 70 percent of project development costs.  The projects estimated capital cost of $900 million increased from the previous estimate of $650 million primarily reflecting various inflationary pressures and scope changes.  Capital cost estimates will continue to be reviewed.  Approximately $157 million in capital costs have been incurred through September 30, 2007.
 
  FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines and in other high potential areas around the world.  Aggregate exploration expenditures in 2007 are expected to approximate $135 million.
Exploration Activities.
 
FCXs exploration efforts in include drilling within the Safford district of the Lone Star deposit, located approximately four miles from the ore body currently under development, as well as targets in the Morenci and Bagdad districts.  FCX is also conducting exploration activities near the Henderson ore body.  In , exploration is ongoing in and around the Cerro Verde and Candelaria/Ojos del Salado deposits. In , FCX is actively pursuing targets outside of the area of initial development at Tenke Fungurume.  The number of drill rigs operating on these and other programs near the companys minesites increased from 26 at the end of March 2007 to 39 currently.
North America
South America
Africa
 
PT-FIs 2007 exploration efforts in will continue to test extensions of the Deep Grasberg and Kucing Liar mine complex and to evaluate targets in the area between the Ertsberg East and Grasberg mineral systems from the new Common Infrastructure tunnels.  Initial drill results from the Common Infrastructure tunnel are positive and additional drilling is in process.  FCX continues its efforts to resume exploration activities in certain prospective areas in Papua, outside Block A (the Grasberg contract area).
Indonesia
 
CASH and DEBT
 
At September 30, 2007, FCX had consolidated cash of $2.4 billion and net cash available to the parent company of $1.6 billion as shown below (in billions):
 
 
At September 30, 2007, FCX had $8.7 billion in debt, including $7.6 billion in acquisition debt, $0.7 billion in Phelps Dodge debt assumed in the transaction and $0.4 billion of previously existing FCX debt.  The following table summarizes FCXs debt transactions since June 30, 2007 (in billions):
 
 
As discussed above, FCX anticipates proceeds net of taxes and transaction expenses of approximately $620 million for the sale of PDIC and will use proceeds from this sale to reduce debt further.  Since completion of the Phelps Dodge transaction on March 19, 2007, FCX has repaid a total of $8.9 billion in debt, including $8.4 billion of an original $10 billion term loan.
 
12
 
OUTLOOK
 
FCXs pro forma consolidated sales volumes for 2007, including pre-acquisition Phelps Dodge sales, are currently projected to approximate 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 2.3 million ounces of gold and 68 million pounds of molybdenum.  Projected sales volumes for the fourth quarter of 2007 approximate 875 million pounds of copper, 100 thousand ounces of gold and 18 million pounds of molybdenum.  The achievement of FCXs sales estimates will be dependent, among other factors, on the achievement of targeted mining rates and expansion plans, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.
 
Using estimated sales volumes for the fourth quarter of 2007 and assuming average prices of $3.50 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $30 per pound of molybdenum in the fourth quarter of 2007, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows would approximate $6.2 billion in 2007, including approximately $1.3 billion projected in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Each $0.20 per pound change in copper prices in the fourth quarter would affect 2007 cash flows by approximately $140 million.  FCXs capital expenditures for 2007 are currently estimated to approximate $1.9 billion.
 
FCX expects to generate cash flows during 2007 significantly greater than its capital expenditures, minority interests distributions, dividends and other cash requirements.  Assuming average prices of $3.50 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $30 per pound of molybdenum in the balance of the year, and assuming excess cash is applied to reduce debt, total debt at year-end 2007 would approximate $7.3 billion and consolidated cash would approximate $1.5 billion.  Based on these assumptions, FCXs term debt (which had a $1.55 billion balance at September 30, 2007) would be substantially repaid by year-end 2007.
 
 
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long track record for maximizing shareholder values through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.  FCXs common stock annual dividend of $1.25 per share totals approximately $475 million per year.  Preferred dividends total approximately $255 million per year.
 
Following the significant increase in debt associated with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, FCX placed a high priority on debt reduction.  As a result of the $5.6 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock and 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock in March 2007 and positive performance of its operations, FCX has achieved meaningful debt reduction since the Phelps Dodge acquisition.  The continuation of the positive performance of FCXs operations would enable the company to reduce its debt further and to consider additional returns to shareholders.  FCXs management and its Board of Directors review the companys financial policy on an ongoing basis.  There are 12.2 million shares remaining under FCXs Board-authorized 20-million share open market purchase program.
 
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  The company's portfolio of assets include the Grasberg mining complex, the world's largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci/Safford minerals district in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume development project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on our web site at .
www.fcx.com
 
13
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes, the impact of changes in deferred intercompany profits on earnings, projected debt and cash balances, projected sale of PDIC, and the impact of purchase accounting, including on production costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:  
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements are available on our web site, www.fcx.com.
 
A copy of this press release is available on our web site, www.fcx.com.  A conference call with securities analysts about third-quarter 2007 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. EDT.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the webcast live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com. A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, November 16, 2007.
14
 
 
 
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
Pro forma financial results assume that FCX acquired Phelps Dodge effective January 1, 2007, for the 2007 periods and effective January 1, 2006, for the 2006 periods.  The most significant adjustments relate to the impact of fair value adjustments to inventories (including mill and leach stockpiles) and property, plant and equipment using March 19, 2007, metals prices and assumptions.
 
Note: Disclosures of after-tax amounts are calculated by reference to the applicable tax rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (1) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (2) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (3) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, and molybdenum and other metals it produces, (4) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (5) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor its operations. In the co-product method presentations below, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations below, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. In addition, costs resulting from the application of the purchase accounting method are removed. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues, excluding any impacts from redemption of the gold- and silver-denominated preferred stocks, are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. Presentations under both methods are shown below together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements or pro forma consolidated financial results.
VIII
North America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
IX
North America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
X
North America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
XI
North America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
XII
Primary Molybdenum (Henderson) Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
a
XIII
South America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
XIV
South America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
XV
South America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
XVI
South America Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
XVII
Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
XVIII
Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
XIX
Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
XX
Indonesia Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
XXI
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs third-quarter 2007 income tax provision from continuing operations resulted from taxes on international operations ($584 million) and taxes in the U.S. ($69 million).  FCXs income tax provision from continuing operations for the first nine months of 2007 resulted from taxes on international operations ($1.7 billion) and taxes in the U.S. ($161 million).  The difference between FCXs effective income tax rate of approximately 37 percent for the first nine months of 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to withholding taxes incurred in connection with earnings from Indonesian and South American mining operations and a U.S. foreign tax credit limitation partly offset by a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion.
FCXs income tax provisions, which totaled $304 million for the third quarter of 2006 and $836 million for the first nine months of 2006, resulted from taxes on PT Freeport Indonesias earnings.  The difference between FCXs effective income tax rate of approximately 43 percent for the first nine months of 2006 and PT-FIs Contract of Work rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to withholding taxes incurred in connection with earnings from Indonesian mining operations and income taxes incurred by PT Indocopper Investama.
A summary of the significant components in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes for the first nine months of 2007 follows (in millions, except percentages):
XXII
FCXs business consists of three primary operating divisions  North American mining, South American mining and Indonesian mining. Following is a discussion of the reportable segments included in these operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segment  Atlantic Copper. FCX continues to evaluate reportable segments in conjunction with its review of the management reporting structure following the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, and as a result, the following reportable segments may change when FCX finalizes its analysis.
On September 12, 2007, FCX entered into an agreement to sell its international wire and cable business, PDIC, for $735 million.  Accordingly, PDICs operating results have been reported as discontinued operations in FCXs condensed consolidated statements of income; and PDICs assets and liabilities have been reported as held for sale in FCXs condensed consolidated balance sheets.  PDIC is no longer a reportable segment of FCX in the following business segment tables for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2007.
  North American mining comprises copper operations from mining through rod production, molybdenum operations from mining through conversion to chemical and metallurgical products, and the marketing and sale of both products. The North American mining operating division includes one reportable copper production segment (Morenci), and also includes as reportable segments Manufacturing and Primary Molybdenum. Other North American mining operations not considered reportable segments include FCXs other southwestern U.S. copper mines  Bagdad, Sierrita, Chino, Cobre, Tyrone, Miami, Bisbee and Tohono. In addition to copper, the Bagdad, Sierrita and Chino mines produce molybdenum, gold, silver and rhenium. Other North American mining operations also include the Safford project, which is currently under development; a sales company, which functions as an agent to purchase and sell copper from the North American mines and the Manufacturing segment and also purchases and sells any copper not sold by the South American mines to third parties; and other ancillary operations.
North American Mining.
  South American mining includes one reportable copper production segment (Cerro Verde). Other South American mining operations not considered reportable segments include FCXs other South American copper mines  Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra.
South American Mining.
  Indonesian mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg copper and gold mining operations and PT Puncakjaya Powers power generating operations (after eliminations with PT Freeport Indonesia).
Indonesian Mining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
  Intersegment sales by the Indonesian and South American mines are based upon arms-length prices at the time of the sale.  Intersegment sales by any individual mine may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Other.
In addition to the allocation of revenues, FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital to the operating divisions and individual segments that may not be reflective of market conditions. FCX does not allocate all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation from the operating division or corporate offices. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of actual financial performance of each operating division or segment as if it was an independent entity.
XXIII
XXIV
XXV
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


