FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20070205171009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[X] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
.
(e) On January 30, 2007, the Corporate Personnel Committee of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) authorized the Restatement of the FCX Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "Plan"), the purpose of which was to bring the Plan into compliance with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to clarify certain provisions of the Plan (see Exhibit 10.1).
Item 5.03.
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) On January 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) approved amendments to Articles XVIII and XIX of FCXs By-Laws to provide for the issuance of and registration of transfers of uncertificated shares, which will permit FCX to participate in the Direct Registration System for publicly traded securities operated by The Depository Trust Company (see Exhibit 3.3).
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(d) Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: February 5, 2007
Exhibit
Number

                 Exhibit 3.3
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
As amended through January 30, 2007
Name
The name of the corporation is
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
Offices
1.
 
The location of the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
2.
 
The corporation shall in addition to its registered office in the State of Delaware establish and maintain an office or offices at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time find necessary or desirable.
Corporate Seal
The corporate seal of the corporation shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation and the year of its creation (1987) and the words "Corporate Seal Delaware". Such seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed, affixed, printed or otherwise reproduced.
Meeting of Stockholders
1.
 
Meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware, or at such other place as shall be determined, from time to time, by the Board of Directors.
2.
 
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on such day at such time as may be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. At each annual meeting of the stockholders they shall elect by a majority of the votes cast, by written ballot, and subject to the voting powers set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, the successors of the directors whose term expires at such meeting, to hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders held in the year following their election and until their successors are respectively elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal, provided that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by plurality vote. In an uncontested election, any nominee for director who has a majority of votes cast withheld from his or her election shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will consider the tendered resignation and recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject the resignation. The Board shall act on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees recommendation and publicly disclose its decision within 90 days from the date of the annual meeting of stockholders. Any director who tenders his or her resignation shall not participate in the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees recommendation or the Board action regarding whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation. If each member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee fails to be elected at the same election, the independent directors who were elected shall appoint a committee to consider the tendered resignations and recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject them. Any vacancies in the Board resulting from the failed election of a director under this section may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, and each director so elected shall hold office until his or her successor has been elected and duly qualified. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting.
3.
 
The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws. If, however, such majority shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time without notice other than announcement at the meeting (except as otherwise provided by statute), until the requisite amount of voting stock shall be present. At such adjourned meeting at which the requisite amount of voting stock shall be represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
4.
 
At all meetings of the stockholders, each stockholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote in person, or by proxy appointed by an instrument in writing subscribed by such stockholder and bearing a date not more than six months prior to said meeting, unless such instrument provides for a longer period. All proxies shall be filed with the secretary of the meeting before being voted.
5.
 
At each meeting of the stockholders each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock having voting power, registered in his name on the books of the corporation at the record date fixed in accordance with these By-Laws, or otherwise determined, with respect to such meeting. Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, by the
 
-2-
Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, all matters coming before any meeting of the stockholders shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the number of shares of stock present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting and entitled to vote thereat, a quorum being present.
6.
 
Notice of each meeting of the stockholders shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting. Such notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.
7.
 
Subject to such rights to call special meetings of stockholders under specified circumstances as may be granted to holders of any shares of Preferred Stock of the corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section (c) of Article FOURTH of the Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President of the corporation, or at the request in writing or by a vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, and not by any other persons. Any request for a special meeting made by the Board of Directors shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting.
8.
 
Business transacted at each special meeting shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice of such meeting.
9.
 
The order of business at each meeting of the stockholders shall be determined by the chairman of such meeting.
10.
 
At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the corporation who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 120th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 210th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 90 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (c) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and (d) any material
 
-3-
interest of the stockholder in such business. Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, a stockholder seeking to have a proposal included in the corporation's proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, but not limited to, Rule 14a-8 or its successor provision).
11.
 
Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the By-Laws shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 120th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 210th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 90 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of such stockholder and (ii) the class and number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by such stockholder. At the request of the Board of Directors any person nominated by the Board of Directors for election as a director shall furnish to the Secretary of the corporation that information required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the By-Laws. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the By-Laws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
-4-
12.
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by stockholders having not less than a minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing.
Directors
1.
 
The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers and authority for and on behalf of the corporation as shall be permitted by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
2.
 
The directors may hold their meeting and have one or more offices, and, subject to the laws of the State of Delaware, keep the stock ledger and other books and records of the corporation outside of said State, at such place or places as they may from time to time determine.
3.
 
Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the Board of Directors, to the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President. Any such resignation shall take effect upon receipt thereof by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be, or at such later date as may be specified therein. Any such notice to the Board shall be addressed to it in care of the Secretary.
Committees of Directors
1.
 
By resolutions adopted by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, the Board may designate an Executive Committee, an Audit Committee, a Corporate Personnel Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and a Public Policy Committee, and may designate one or more other committees, each such committee to consist of one or more directors of the corporation. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation (except as otherwise expressly limited by statute), including the power and authority to declare dividends and to authorize the issuance of stock, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. The Audit Committee, the Corporate Personnel Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Public Policy Committee and each such other committee shall have such of the powers and authority of the Board as may
 
-5-
be provided from time to time in resolutions adopted by a majority of the whole Board. Each committee shall report its proceedings to the Board when required.
2.
 
The requirements with respect to the manner in which the Executive Committee and each such other committee shall hold meetings and take actions shall be set forth in the resolutions of the Board of Directors designating the Executive Committee or such other committee and in the charters of such committees as adopted by the Board of Directors.
Compensation of Directors
The directors shall receive such compensation for their services as may be authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors, which compensation may include an annual fee and a fixed sum and expenses for attendance at regular or special meetings of the Board or any committee thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Meetings of Directors; Action Without a Meeting
1.
 
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board.
2.
 
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, by the Vice Chairman of the Board or by the President on at least 24 hours' notice to each director, and shall be called by the President or the Secretary on like notice on the request in writing of any director. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the purpose or purposes of any such special meeting need not be stated in such notice.
3.
 
At all meetings of the Board of Directors the presence in person of a majority of the total number of directors shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, if a quorum shall be present the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting shall be the act of the Board.
4.
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all the members of the Board or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Any director may participate in a meeting of the Board, or of any committee designated by the Board, by means of
 
-6-
a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this sentence shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Advisory Directors
The Board of Directors may, from time to time as it deems appropriate by resolution adopted by a
majority
of the entire Board, appoint individuals as Advisory Directors. Each Advisory Director shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. It shall be the duty of Advisory Directors to advise and provide general policy advice to the Board of Directors at such times and places and in such groups and committees as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. Each Advisory Director shall be entitled to receive notice of and to attend regular meetings of the Board of Directors or any committee of the Board for which such Advisory Director has been appointed to serve as an advisor or consultant, and may participate in all discussions occurring during such meetings in an advisory capacity. Advisory Directors shall not be entitled to vote on any matter brought before the Board of Directors or any committee thereof and shall not be counted for the purpose of determining whether a quorum of the Board of Directors (or any committee thereof) is present. No Advisory Director shall be deemed to be a Director of the corporation for any purposes whatsoever under any applicable law or under these by-laws. The compensation paid to Advisory Directors shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Officers
1.
 
The officers of the corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors may also choose a Vice Chairman of the Board, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, one or more Senior Vice Presidents, a General Counsel, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, a Controller and one or more Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers or Assistant Controllers, and such other officers as it shall deem necessary who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Board or by the Chairman of the Board. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
2.
 
Annually, the Board of Directors shall choose a Chairman of the Board from among the directors, and shall choose the remaining officers who need not be members of the Board except in the event they choose a Vice Chairman of the Board.
3.
 
The salaries of all officers of the corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, or in such manner as the Board may prescribe.
-7-
4.
 
The officers of the corporation shall hold office until their successors are respectively chosen and qualified, except that any officer may at any time resign or be removed by the Board of Directors. If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board.
5.
 
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President. Any such resignation shall take effect upon receipt thereof by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be, or at such later date as may be specified therein. Any such notice to the Board shall be addressed to it in care of the Secretary.
Chairman of the Board
The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. Subject to the supervision and direction of the Board of Directors, he shall be responsible for managing the affairs of the corporation. He shall have general supervision and direction of all of the other officers of the corporation and shall have powers and duties usually and customarily associated with the office of Chairman of the Board.
President and Chief Executive Officer
The President and Chief Executive Officer shall have the powers and duties usually and customarily associated with the Office of President and Chief Executive Officer. He shall have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. The President and Chief Executive Officer shall, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at meetings of the stockholders.
Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Operating Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice Presidents,
Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents and
Assistant Vice Presidents
The Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents and Assistant Vice
 
-8-
Presidents shall have such powers and duties as may be delegated to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President and Chief Executive Officer.
General Counsel, Secretary and Assistant Secretaries
1.
 
The General Counsel shall have the powers and duties usually and customarily associated with the position of General Counsel. He shall have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
2.
 
The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders, and shall record the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose. He shall perform like duties for the committees of the Board when required.
3.
 
The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and of committees of the Board. He shall keep in safe custody the seal of the corporation, and when authorized by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, an Executive Vice President, a Senior Vice President, a Vice President or the General Counsel, shall affix the same to any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed it shall be attested by his signature or by the signature of an Assistant Secretary. He shall have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
4.
 
The Assistant Secretaries shall, in case of the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to them by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers
1.
 
The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities, and shall deposit or cause to be deposited under his direction all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors or pursuant to authority granted by it. He shall render to the Chairman of the Board and the Board of Directors, whenever they may require it, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation. He shall have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
2.
 
The Assistant Treasurers shall, in case of the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer, and shall have such other
 
-9-
powers and duties as may be delegated to them by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
Controller and Assistant Controllers
1.
 
The Controller shall maintain adequate records of all assets, liabilities and transactions of the corporation, and shall see that adequate audits thereof are currently and regularly made. He shall disburse the funds of the corporation in payment of the just obligations of the corporation, or as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements. He shall have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
2.
 
The Assistant Controllers shall, in case of the absence of the Controller, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Controller, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to them by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
Agents and Representatives
The Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any Vice President, the General Counsel, together with the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, are authorized and empowered in the name of and as the act and deed of the corporation, to name and appoint general and special agents, representatives, and attorneys to represent the corporation in the United States or in any foreign country, and to prescribe, limit and define the powers and duties of such agents, representatives and attorneys, and to grant, substitute, revoke, or cancel, in whole or in part, any power of attorney or other authority conferred on any such agent, representative, or attorney. All powers of attorney or other instruments which may be executed pursuant to this provision shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, or any Vice President, the General Counsel, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and the seal of the corporation shall be affixed thereto. No further authorization by the Board of Directors shall be necessary in connection with the foregoing, it being intended that this By-Law shall constitute full and complete authority by which the officers above mentioned may act for the purposes aforesaid.
-10-
Certificates of Stock
The shares of the corporation shall be uncertificated or shall be represented by certificates signed in the name of the corporation. The certificates for shares of stock of the corporation shall be numbered and shall be entered on the books of the corporation as they are issued. The certificated shares shall exhibit the holders name and number of shares and shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, an Executive Vice President, a Senior Vice President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. The signature of any such officers may be facsimile if such certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee or by a registrar other than the corporation or its employee. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed on any such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, then, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise determine and cause notification thereof to be given to such transfer agent and registrar, such certificate may be issued by the corporation (and by its transfer agent) and registered by its registrar with the same effect as if he were such officer at the date of issue.
Transfers of Stock
1.
 
Upon surrender to the corporation or the transfer agent of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered holder of uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be cancelled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the corporation.
2.
 
Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the corporation shall send, or cause to be sent, to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to Sections 151, 156, 202(a) or 218(a) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and rights.
-11-
Fixing Record Date
In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote on any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting; (2) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, shall not be more than 10 days from the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors; and (3) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than 60 days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (2) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting when no prior action of the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation in accordance with applicable law, or, if prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action; and (3) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Registered Stockholders
The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
-12-
Checks
All checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money, and all promissory notes and other evidences of the corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors or pursuant to authority granted by it.
Fiscal Year
The fiscal year shall begin the first day of January in each year.
Notices and Waivers
1.
 
Whenever by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws it is provided that notice shall be given to any director or stockholder, such provision shall not be construed to require personal notice, but such notice may also be given in writing, by mail, by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to such stockholder or director at his address as it appears on the records of the corporation, or in default of such address, to such director or stockholder at the General Post Office in the City of Wilmington, Delaware, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be thus deposited. Notice of special meetings of the Board of Directors may also be given to any director by (i) telephone, (ii) telecopier, (iii) electronic mail, (iv) telex or (v) telegraph or cable, and in the latter event the notice shall be deemed to be given at the time such notice, addressed to such director at the address hereinbefore provided, shall be transmitted or delivered to and accepted by an authorized telegraph or cable office.
2.
 
Whenever by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws a notice is required to be given, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of any stockholder or director at any meeting thereof shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting by such stockholder or director, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided by statute.
-13-
Alteration of By-Laws
These By-Laws may be altered, amended, changed or repealed by vote of the stockholders or at any meeting of the Board of Directors by the vote of a majority of the directors present or as otherwise provided by statute.
Indemnification of Corporate Personnel
The corporation shall indemnify any person who is or was a director, advisory director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, advisory director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. Expenses incurred by such a director, advisory director, officer, employee or agent in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the corporation as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. The corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any such persons against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation. The indemnification provisions of this Article XXVI and the Certificate of Incorporation shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under any applicable law, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
The provisions of this Article XXVI and Article EIGHTH of the Certificate of Incorporation shall be deemed to be a contract between the corporation and each person who serves as such director, advisory director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation in any such capacity at any time while this Article XXVI and Article EIGHTH of the Certificate of Incorporation are in effect. No repeal or modification of the provisions of this Article XXVI and Article EIGHTH of the Certificate of Incorporation nor, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any modification of law shall adversely affect any right or protection of a director, advisory director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation then existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
 
-14-

Exhibit 10.1
 
On February 26, 2004 the
Corporate Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (Employer) adopted the Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for the benefit of two employees of Employer. The Plan was subsequently amended on May 3, 2005. Now, in order to bring the Plan into compliance with the provisions of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, enacted by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and to clarify certain provisions, the Plan is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows, effective (except as otherwise provided) January 1, 2005:
 
 
The Employer intends and desires by the adoption of this Plan to recognize the value to the Employer of past and present services of its two senior executives, and to encourage their continued service with the Employer by making provisions for their future retirement security. Each executives rights under the Plan shall be treated as a separate plan for Code Section 409A purposes.
 
 
The Corporate Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Employer shall be the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority to interpret, construe and administer this Plan, and its interpretations and constructions hereof and actions hereunder, including the timing, form, amount or receipt of any payment to be made hereunder, within the scope of its authority, shall be binding and conclusive on all persons for all purposes. No individual member of the Corporate Personnel Committee shall be liable to any person in connection with the interpretation or administration of the Plan, and the Employer shall indemnify each member of the Corporate Personnel Committee for any liability that the member might incur, except that a member of the Corporate Personnel Committee shall be responsible for the consequences of his or her own willful misconduct or bad faith. The Plan Administrator may delegate its responsibilities hereunder to one or more employees of the Employer, but no person shall participate in any action or determination regarding his own benefit hereunder.
 
 
1.
  
Actuarially Equivalent
benefits are determined using the mortality table described at Revenue Ruling 2001-62 and a 6% interest rate.
 
2.
  
Affiliate
means an employer that is required to be aggregated with the Employer under Code Section 414(b) or 414(c).
 
3.
  
Aggregated Arrangement
means a plan or other arrangement, sponsored by the Employer or an Affiliate, that constitutes a non-qualified non-account-balance plan (other than a separation pay arrangement), under the terms of Code Section 409A and its regulations.
 
4.
  
Beneficiary
means the person designated by the Participant, on a Participant Election Form provided by the Plan Administrator, to receive the benefit payable upon the death of the Participant. If more than one Beneficiary is named they shall share proportionately. If no Beneficiary is effectively named by the Participant, the Beneficiary shall be the Participants estate.
 
5.
  
Bonus
for a year means any annual incentive bonuses paid by Employer or FM Services Company for that year, whether or not deferred, but not including long-term incentive payments and other extraordinary compensation.
 
6.
  
Code
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
7.
  
Credited Service
means the period of the Participants current employment, but not counting any time prior to July 1, 1981.
 
8.
  
Employer
means Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
 
9.
  
Final Average Pay
means the sum of (a) the Participants average base pay from the Employer and from FM Services Company for the 3 calendar years (not necessarily consecutive) during the 5 calendar years immediately preceding the Participants Termination of Employment that produces the highest average, plus (b) the Participants average Bonus for the same three years; provided however, that the average Bonus can not exceed 200% of the average base pay.
 
10.
  
Life Annuity
means a monthly annuity payable to the Participant for his life only.
 
11.
  
Joint-and-100%-Survivor Annuity
means a monthly benefit payable to the Participant commencing the first day of the month following the Participants Termination of Employment, continuing until the month of the Participants death, and continuing thereafter in the same amount to the Participants surviving spouse, continuing until the month of the spouses death.
 
12.
  
Monthly Annuity
means a hypothetical Joint-and-100% Survivor Annuity payable to the Participant and a surviving spouse who is 2 years younger than the Participant.
 
2
13.
  
Other Pension Plan
means each defined-benefit or defined-contribution plan (whether qualified under the Code or not) sponsored by the Employer or by FM Services Company, as well as the FMI Employee Retirement Plan, the Freeport-McMoRan Retirement Plan, and the Freeport-McMoRan Excess Benefits Plan, but not including any benefit produced by accounts funded exclusively by deductions from a Participants pay.
 
14.
  
Participant
means each of James R. Moffett and Richard C. Adkerson.
 
15.
  
Participant Election Form
means the form provided by the Plan Administrator on which a Participant can elect the form of his benefit and who will receive any death benefit.
 
16.
  
Plan
means the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan set forth in this document, as it may be amended.
 
17.
  
Plan Administrator
means the Corporate Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Employer. Communications to the Plan Administrator shall be addressed to the Chairman of the Corporate Personnel Committee, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., 1615 Poydras Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112.
 
18.
  
Termination of Employment
means the termination of the employment of a Participant with the Employer (or an Affiliate) in the absence of a qualifying transfer of employment. A qualifying transfer of employment occurs when the Participant transfers from the Employer (or an Affiliate) to the Employer or an Affiliate. A Termination of Employment also is deemed to occur if the Participant remains employed but no longer provides significant services for the Employer or Affiliate. Services are significant if the Participant provides services at an annual rate at least equal to 20% of the services rendered on average during the immediately preceding three full calendar years of employment, and the annual remuneration for such services is equal to 20% or more of the average remuneration earned during the final three calendar years of employment. In addition, a Termination of Employment will be treated as not having occurred if the Participant ceases to be employed by the Employer or an Affiliate, but continues to provide services to the Employer or an Affiliate at an annual rate that is 50% or more of the services rendered on average during the final three full calendar years of employment, and the annual remuneration is 50% or more of the average annual remuneration earned during the immediately preceding three full calendar years of employment.
 
 
1.
  
Upon the Termination of Employment of a Participant on or after his 65th birthday, the Participant shall be entitled to a Normal Retirement Benefit.
 
2.
  
The Normal Retirement Benefit shall be a Monthly Annuity equal to the difference between X and Y, where
 
X
equals 2% of the Participants Final Average Pay, multiplied by years of Credited Service after June 30, 1981, up to 25 years; and
 
3
Y
equals the total Monthly Annuity provided to the Participant under all Other Pension Plans, using the principles set forth in Paragraph 3, below, to determine the amount of the offset in each case.
 
3.
  
The following methods shall be used in determining the amount of the benefit under an Other Pension Plan to offset against the Monthly Annuity.
 
a.
  
If the benefit paid under an Other Pension Plan is in the form of a lump sum or a different form of annuity than the Monthly Annuity, the offset shall be the Monthly Annuity that is Actuarially Equivalent to the benefit.
 
b.
  
If the benefit under an Other Pension Plan is paid in the form of a lump sum prior to the Participants Termination of Employment, the lump sum shall be increased by interest at the rate of 6.75% per annum, compounded annually, from the date of its payment to the date of the Termination of Employment, prior to determining the Monthly Annuity that is Actuarially Equivalent to the lump-sum benefit.
 
c.
  
If a benefit paid under an Other Pension Plan is paid or commences later than the benefit under the Plan, the value of the benefit (as determined under the terms of the Other Pension Plan) as of the date of the Participants Termination of Employment shall be the starting point for determining the offset amount.
 
4.
  
On a Participant Election Form a Participant shall elect to receive as his benefit either (a) a Joint-and-100%-Survivor Annuity for the Participant and his spouse, or (b) a Life Only Annuity, or (c) a lump-sum benefit. Each benefit shall be Actuarially Equivalent to the Monthly Annuity determined under Paragraph 2 of this Article 4. If the Participant fails to elect the form of benefit, the benefit shall be paid as a Joint-and-100%-Survivor Annuity if married when the benefit commences, or a Life Only Annuity if not married. If a Participant elects a Joint-and-100%-Survivor Annuity, and the spouse who would have been the joint annuitant dies before the Participants benefit commences, the Participants benefit shall be paid in the form of a Life Only Annuity.
 
5.
  
Any new election of the form of benefit must be made by the Participant at least 12 months prior to the Participants Termination of Employment, by delivering a completed Participant Election Form to the Plan Administrator. Any new Participant Election Form that is received by the Plan Administrator less than 12 months prior to the Termination of Employment shall be ineffective. If a new election of the form of benefit is made after December 31, 2007, the payment of the benefit (or commencement of the payment of the benefit) shall be delayed for five years beyond the date on which the benefit would have been paid or commenced if the new election had not been made. The rule set forth in the preceding sentence shall not apply to an election of a new form of benefit that applies only to benefits accruing after the calendar year in which the election of the new form of benefit is made. During the calendar year 2006, a separate election may be made with respect to the form of payment of benefits that accrued prior to the year 2006, as opposed to the form of payment of benefits accruing after the year 2005.
 
6.
  
A Participants lump-sum benefit shall be paid as of the first day following six months from the date of the Participants Termination of Employment. A Participants monthly
 
4
annuity form of benefit shall commence as of the first day of the month that is six months after the Termination of Employment, but the first payment shall include a payment for each month starting with the month after the Termination of Employment.
 
7.
  
If a Participants Termination of Employment occurs after he has completed 25 years of Credited Service, the Participants net benefit shall be determined under Paragraph 2 as if his Termination of Employment occurred on January 1 of the year in which he completes his 25th year of Credited Service, and the benefit payable upon his actual Termination of Employment shall be Actuarially Equivalent to the benefit determined upon the January 1 of the year in which he completes 25 years of Credited Service.
 
 
1.
  
A Participant whose Termination of Employment occurs prior to his 65th birthday is entitled to an Early Retirement Benefit. The amount of the Monthly Annuity shall be determined in the same manner as for a Normal Retirement Benefit, except that the value of
X
at Paragraph 2 of Article 4 is reduced by 1/4 of 1% for each month (or part of a month) that the commencement of the benefit precedes the Participants 65th birthday.
 
2.
  
If a Participant in the Plan has a Termination of Employment, no benefit shall accrue under the Plan with respect to any later period of employment, nor shall the later period of employment affect the benefit payable under the Plan.
 
 
If a Participant should die before payment of his benefit under the Plan has been made or begun to be made, a death benefit shall be paid in a lump sum to his Beneficiary. The death benefit shall be equal to the amount that would have been paid to the Participant if his Termination of Employment had occurred on the date of his death and he had elected a lump-sum benefit.
 
 
1.
  
The Employer expects to continue this Plan indefinitely but reserves the right, acting through the Plan Administrator, to amend or terminate the Plan as to either or both Participants, provided, however, that no amendment can reduce a Participants benefit under the Plan below what the Participant has accrued as of the effective date of the amendment or termination.
 
2.
  
The Plan may be terminated, as to either or both of the Participants, only under the following circumstances:
 
a.
  
The Employer may terminate the Plan within 12 months of a corporate dissolution taxed under Code Section 331 or with the approval of a bankruptcy court.
 
5
b.
  
The Employer may terminate the Plan within the 30 days preceding or the 12 months following a change of control event, as defined at Reg. Section 1.409A-2(g)(4)(i). For purposes of this paragraph, the Plan will be treated as terminated only if all Aggregated Arrangements are also terminated, so that the Participant and all participants under such other arrangements are required to receive all amounts of compensation deferred under the terminated arrangements within 12 months of the date of termination.
 
c.
  
The Employer may terminate the Plan at any time, provided that all Aggregated Arrangements are terminated as to all participants, no payments other than payments that would be payable under the terms of the arrangements if the termination had not occurred are made within 12 months of the termination, all payments are made within 24 months of the termination, and no Aggregated Arrangement is adopted at any time within 5 years following the date of termination of the Plan.
 
d.
  
Such other events and conditions as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may prescribe in generally applicable guidance.
 
 
The interest of a Participant or Beneficiary may not be sold, transferred, assigned, or encumbered in any manner, either voluntarily or involuntarily. Neither shall the benefits hereunder be liable for or subject to the claims of the creditors of any person to whom such benefits or funds are payable, except that (i) no amount shall be payable hereunder until and unless any and all amounts representing debts or other obligations owed to the Employer or any Affiliate of the Employer by the Participant with respect to whom such amounts would otherwise be payable shall have been fully paid and satisfied, and (ii) no amounts shall be payable hereunder to any Participant (or Beneficiary) if the Participant breaches any of the terms of the Participants employment agreement with the Employer governing nondisclosure, noncompetition, or proprietary rights.
 
 
Participants and Beneficiaries under this Plan have only an unsecured right to receive benefits from the Employer as general creditors of the Employer. The Plan constitutes a mere promise to make payments in the future. Employer may set aside funds, in a trust or otherwise, for the purpose of satisfying its obligations under the Plan. The setting aside of amounts by the Employer with which to discharge its obligations hereunder shall not create any security for the payment of Plan benefits. Any and all funds so set aside shall remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Employer, present and future. This provision shall not require the Employer to set aside any funds, but the Employer may set aside such funds if it chooses to do so.
 
6
 
A claim for benefits must be submitted in writing to the Plan Administrator. If a claim is wholly or partially denied, a notice of the decision will be furnished to the claimant not later than 90 days after receipt of the claim by the Plan Administrator. The notice will include the reason or reasons for the denial. The claimant will be informed if additional information is needed in order to properly evaluate the claim.
 
The applicant will have 60 days within which to appeal a denied claim in writing to the Plan Administrator. The applicant (who may act at each stage act through a duly-authorized representative) should include in his written appeal the following information: a list of the findings in the claim denial that he chooses to contest; his position on each issue; any additional facts that he believes support his position; and any legal or other arguments he believes support his position. Upon request, the claimant will be given reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents and information relevant to the claim for benefits, at no charge.
 
Upon receipt of an appeal, the Plan Administrator will consider all items submitted by the claimant, regardless of whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. No deference will be afforded to the initial determination. The decision on review will be rendered as promptly as is feasible, but not later than 60 days after the receipt of a request for review unless the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as promptly as is feasible, but not later than 120 days after receipt of a request for review, and the claimant will be notified of the delay before the end of the initial 60-day period.
 
In the event of a decision to deny the claim, in whole or in part, the Plan Administrators decision will contain: (1) specific reasons for the decision, written in a clear and simple manner; (2) specific references to the pertinent plan provisions on which the decision is based; (3) a statement that the claimant may request, at no charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim for benefits; and (4) a description of the claimants further rights to pursue his claim.
 
If the claimant wishes to contest the Plan Administrators decision on appeal, the claimant and the Plan Administrator may enter into voluntary binding arbitration to resolve the dispute. Alternatively, the Participant may bring a civil action for recovery of benefits, pursuant to Section 502(a) of ERISA. No legal action for recovery of benefits may be commenced before the claimant has exhausted the claims review procedure described above.
 
 
1.
  
If the Employer, through a mistake of law or fact, pays to a Participant or other person a Plan benefit that the recipient is not entitled to, the recipient shall repay the mistaken amount to the Employer. The Employer may offset the future benefits of any recipient who refuses to return an erroneous payment, in addition to pursuing other remedies provided by law.
 
7
2.
  
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring upon any Participant the right to continue in the employ of the Employer in any capacity.
 
3.
  
The Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Employer, its successors and assigns and each Participant and his or her heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives.
 
4.
  
The Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Louisiana, except to the extent that the Plan is governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). It is the Employers intent that the Plan shall be exempt from ERISAs provisions to the maximum extent permitted by law. The Plan is intended to be unfunded for federal income tax purposes and for the purposes of Title I of ERISA, and is intended to provide a pension benefit only for a select group of executive management or highly compensated employees, so as to be exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA, pursuant to Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of ERISA. The Plan is also intended to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A. Any ambiguity shall be resolved by giving effect to these intentions.
 
5.
  
To the extent required under Code Section 409A, each Participants participation in this Plan shall be aggregated with his participation in any and all Aggregated Arrangements to determine if a violation of Code Section 409A has occurred.
 
6.
  
The ERISA plan number of the Plan is 003. The EIN and address of the Employer are: Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc, 74-2480931, 1615 Poydras Street, New Orleans, LA 70112.
 
7.
  
This Plan document, and any amendment hereto, shall also serve as the Plans Summary Plan Description. A copy of this Plan document and each amendment hereto shall be provided to each Participant.
 
Executed this 30
th
day of January, 2007.
 
WITNESSES:
FREEPORT-McMoRAN COPPER
AND GOLD INC.
                                                
/s/ Douglas N. Currault II 
By: The Corporate Personnel Committee
                                                                                          of the Board of Directors
/s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
                                               
By:
 
/
s/ H. Devon Graham, Jr.
 
 
 
                                                                                                      
H. Devon Graham, Jr., Chairman
 
8


