FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20071205171740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01.  
Regulation FD Disclosure.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) announced today that it plans to proceed with the restart of the Climax molybdenum mine near Leadville, Colorado (see Exhibit 99.1).
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
FCX announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its annual common stock dividend from $1.25 per share to $1.75 per share (see Exhibit 99.2).  FCX also announced today that its Board of Directors approved a new open market share purchase program authorizing purchases totaling 20 million shares (see Exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  December 5, 2007
 
 
Exhibit
Number

PHOENIX, AZ, December 4, 2007Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today it plans to proceed with the restart of the Climax molybdenum mine near Leadville, Colorado.  The initial $500 million project involves the restart of open pit mining and the construction of new state of the art milling facilities.  Annual production is expected to approximate 30 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2010 at estimated cash costs approximating $3.50 per pound.   The project is designed to enable the consideration of a further large scale expansion of the Climax mine.  FCX will evaluate a second phase of the Climax project which could potentially double future annual molybdenum production to approximately 60 million pounds.
 
The Climax mine is believed to be the worlds largest, highest grade and lowest cost undeveloped molybdenum deposit.  Using a long-term molybdenum price of $6.50 per pound, reserves are estimated at 180 million tons at 0.165 percent molybdenum (0.5 billion pounds of recoverable molybdenum).  In addition, there is an estimated 466 million tons grading 0.17 percent molybdenum of mineralized material ($10 per pound long-term molybdenum price) with substantial upside.  
 
Richard C. Adkerson, FCXs Chief Executive Officer, said, We are pleased to announce the decision to proceed with this financially attractive project and continue our leadership position as the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  This project will provide long-term, low cost production and enable us to continue our long-standing tradition of providing our customers with high quality molybdenum products and service.
 
Orders for certain long-lead items have been placed and work on the project will commence immediately.  Major construction activities are expected to begin in the spring of 2008 after the winter season.  The mill is located in the Colorado Rocky Mountains at an elevation of 11,400 feet.  Construction employment will begin with approximately 150 workers and peak at over 500.  The operation will employ approximately 350 when production begins.
 
Climax is a historically significant mine with first ore processed in 1918.  The mine and mill were last operated in 1995.  Reclamation and environmental projects have continued over a multi-year period and will continue in areas no longer required for mining operations.
 
FCX also announced plans to increase its molybdenum processing capacity by 20 million pounds per annum through the conversion of its copper concentrate leach facility at Bagdad, Arizona, to a molybdenum concentrate leach facility by 2010.  FCX has four additional molybdenum processing facilities at Green Valley, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; Stowmarket, United Kingdom and Rotterdam, Netherlands.
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  Additional information about FCX is available on our web site at .
www.fcx.com
 
 
1
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding the restart of FCXs Climax molybdenum mine.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  This press release includes forward looking statements regarding geologic resources not included in reserves. The geologic resources described in this press release will not qualify as reserves until comprehensive engineering studies establish their economic feasibility. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated geologic resources not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves.  Important factors that might cause future results to differ from these forward looking statements include mine sequencing,  production rate, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks, the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals for the restart, the possibility that this restart will not occur on time and other factors described in FCX's first quarter 2007 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautionary Statement:  
 
 
2
 
 

 
PHOENIX, AZ, December 4, 2007  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its annual common stock dividend from $1.25 per share to $1.75 per share.  The dividend will be payable quarterly ($0.4375 per share) beginning with the February 2008 dividend payment.
 
FCX also announced today that its Board of Directors approved a new open market share purchase program authorizing purchases totaling 20 million shares.  The timing of future purchases is dependent upon many factors including the companys operating results, cash flow and financial position, the market price of the common shares and general economic and market conditions.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board of FCX, and Richard C. Adkerson, FCXs Chief Executive Officer, said, With the anticipated repayment of our term debt by year end, we will have reduced debt by more than $10 billion since our March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge, achieving our debt reduction objectives 2-3 years sooner than initially targeted.  This has enabled us to take a first step of increasing cash returns to shareholders through a 40 percent increase in our common dividend.  The Board's authorization of a new share purchase program will enable us to purchase shares from time to time in future periods as we generate cash flows in excess of our capital expenditures and other cash requirements.  Our financial policy will be reviewed on an ongoing basis and will be designed to maintain a strong balance sheet, enable financial flexibility to invest in organic growth and provide strong cash returns to shareholders subject to market conditions.
 
FCX has approximately 382 million shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 444 million assuming conversion of FCXs convertible securities.
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The company's portfolio of assets include the Grasberg mining complex, the world's largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci/Safford minerals district in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume development project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on our web site at .
www.fcx.com
 
  This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding timing of dividend payments and open market purchases of FCX common stock.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will depend on the Company's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's first quarter 2007 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautionary Statement.
 
 
 
1
 


