FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20080910115437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated September 10, 2008, announcing a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 tonnes of material at the Grasberg open pit operated by its 90.6 percent owned subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), and revised its projected copper and gold sales volumes for 2008.  There were no injuries or property damage resulting from this event (see exhibit 99.1).
FCX is also providing an update on the estimated impact of the recent decline in copper prices on its previously reported June 30, 2008, open pounds.  At June 30, 2008, FCXs copper sales included 369 million pounds of copper (net of minority interests) priced at an average of $3.88 per pound and subject to final pricing over the next several months. Assuming that the September 5, 2008, quarter-to-date average pricing of $3.62 per pound and forward price of $3.14 per pound were applied to the June 30 provisionally priced sales, the weighted average final price for these sales would be approximately $3.43 per pound resulting in a reduction to third quarter revenues of approximately $230 million and a reduction to third quarter net income of approximately $100 million. FCX estimates that each $0.05 change in the copper forward price from the September 5, 2008, price would impact third quarter net income by $5 million. The LME closing spot price for copper on September 9, 2008, was $3.11 per pound.
In addition, FCX is providing an update on its share purchases under its open market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. From August 2008 through September 9, 2008, FCX has acquired 4.9 million shares for approximately $400 million ($81.95 per share average), and 25.1 million shares remain available under this program. The timing of future purchases of FCX common stock is dependent on many factors, including the price of FCXs common shares, FCXs operating results, cash flows and financial position, copper, gold and molybdenum prices, and general economic and market conditions.
  This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected sales volumes and open market purchases of FCX common stock.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this Form 8-K and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Cautionary Statement.
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibit included as part of this Current Report is listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  September 10, 2008
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 

 
 
 
PHOENIX, AZ, September 10, 2008  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 tonnes of material occurred at the Grasberg open pit operated by its 90.6% owned subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI).  There were no injuries or property damage.
 
PT-FIs mining and milling activities are continuing normally but access to the high grade section of 7 South will be restricted until remediation activities are completed and safe access to this mining area can be assured.  PT-FI expects to complete remediation of the area and resume mining in the high grade 7 South section in October 2008.  In the interim, PT-FI is mining ore from the DOZ underground mine and lower grade sections of the Grasberg open pit.  As a result of the delayed access to the high grade material, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 will be deferred to future periods.  Initial estimates indicate approximately 150 million pounds of copper (PT-FIs share, net of joint venture interest, 90 million pounds) and 200,000 ounces of gold (PT-FIs share 200,000 ounces) previously expected to be mined in 2008 will be deferred to future periods.  This incident is not expected to affect PT-FIs long-term mine plans significantly.
 
As a result of this event and changes in PT-FIs short-range mine plans, FCX is revising its near-term sales outlook.  The revised estimates, which also incorporate slightly better than expected third quarter 2008 performance from FCXs South American operations, are summarized below. The changes reflect a deferral of a small portion of FCXs copper sales and the economic impact is not significant.
 
FCXs estimated copper sales for 2008 of 4.03 billion pounds are 1.6% (65 million pounds) below previous estimates and estimated gold sales of 1.2 million ounces are 200,000 ounces lower than previous estimates. Molybdenum sales are unaffected.  These estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available regarding the timing of access to the high grade material at Grasberg.
 
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
1
 
The companys portfolio of assets include the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume development project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on our web site at .
www.fcx.com
 
 
  This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates and projected sales volumes.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Cautionary Statement.
 
2


