FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20080424123436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated April 23, 2008, announcing its first-quarter 2008 results (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its April 23, 2008, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  April 24, 2008
 
 
 
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 
 

 
 
1
 
PHOENIX, AZ, April 23, 2008  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported first-quarter 2008 net income applicable to common stock of $1.1 billion, $2.64 per share, compared with $476 million, $2.02 per share, for the first quarter of 2007.  FCXs results included net losses on early debt extinguishments totaling $6 million ($5 million to net income or $0.01 per share) for first-quarter 2008 and $88 million ($75 million to net income or $0.31 per share) for first-quarter 2007.  The results for the 2007 quarter include the operations of Phelps Dodge beginning March 20, 2007.
 
 James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our first-quarter results reflect our continued focus on maximizing current production volumes and investing in future growth to meet increasing market requirements for the commodities we produce.  As we crossed the one-year anniversary of our combination with Phelps Dodge in March, we are established as a financially strong global metals producer with significant current production capacity and reserves, exciting current growth projects and promising opportunities for future growth in major minerals districts around the world.  The theme of our recently published 2007 annual report, A World of Assets, A World of Opportunities, highlights our portfolio of global operations and opportunities to expand production capacity, extend the lives of our mines and develop new ore bodies.
   
 
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
Note: Disclosures of after-tax amounts throughout this release are calculated by reference to the applicable tax rate.
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPERATIONS
 
Consolidated copper sales of 911 million pounds in the first quarter of 2008 were slightly higher than previous estimates of 885 million pounds reported on January 23, 2008, primarily because of the timing of shipments.  Production from North America was lower than previous estimates, while South America production was essentially as forecasted and Indonesia production exceeded prior estimates.  Consolidated gold sales of 280 thousand ounces in first-quarter 2008 were higher than previous estimates of 170 thousand ounces because of mine sequencing at the Grasberg mine in Indonesia.  As expected, consolidated gold sales in the first quarter of 2008 were significantly lower than the year ago period because of the mining in a lower ore grade section of the Grasberg open pit.  Consolidated molybdenum sales approximated 20 million pounds in first-quarter 2008.
 
Consolidated unit net cash costs were $1.06 per pound in the first quarter of 2008.  Assuming average prices of $3.75 per pound for copper, $900 per ounce for gold and $30 per pound for molybdenum for the remainder of 2008, unit net cash costs for the year 2008 would average approximately $1.00 per pound.  Pro forma amounts in the tables below reflect the inclusion of Phelps Dodge results prior to the March 19, 2007 acquisition.
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
First-quarter 2008 copper and gold sales volumes were lower than in pro forma first-quarter 2007 primarily because of the expected mining in a lower ore grade section of the Grasberg open pit during the first half of 2008.  This was partially offset by higher North and South American copper production (Safford and Cerro Verde).  The increase in unit net cash costs from pro forma first-quarter 2007 amounts primarily reflects lower copper and gold volumes at Grasberg and higher input costs, including energy and labor.
 
Approximately two-thirds of FCXs copper is sold in concentrate and cathodes and the remaining one-third is sold primarily as rod (principally from North American operations).  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCXs concentrate sales contracts and some of its cathode sales contracts are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based on quoted LME or COMEX prices.  The sales subject to final pricing are generally settled in a subsequent month or quarter.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded realized price for copper for the period.
 
While LME copper prices averaged $3.52 per pound during the first quarter of 2008, FCXs recorded prices of $3.69 per pound were heavily weighted to the applicable forward copper prices at the end of the quarter ($3.82 per pound).  Approximately half of FCXs consolidated copper sales during the first quarter were provisionally priced at the time of shipment and are subject to final pricing later in 2008.
 
At December 31, 2007, 402 million pounds of copper (net of minority interests) were provisionally priced at $3.02 per pound.  The increase in copper prices in the first quarter resulted in adjustments to these prior period sales which remained open for settlement at December 31, 2007.  First-quarter 2008 adjustments to copper sales recognized in prior quarters increased revenues by $294
 
4
million ($127 million to net income or $0.28 per share) compared with a decrease of $15 million ($8 million to net income or $0.03 per share) in the first quarter of 2007.
 
At March 31, 2008, FCX had consolidated copper sales of 362 million pounds of copper (net of minority interests) priced at an average of $3.82 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change in the price realized from the March 31, 2008, price would result in an approximate $11 million effect on FCXs 2008 net income.  The LME closing spot price for copper on April 22, 2008, was $3.99 per pound.
 
  FCX operates six open-pit copper mining complexes in North America (Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita and Safford in Arizona and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico) and conducts molybdenum mining operations at the Henderson underground mine in Colorado.  By-product molybdenum is primarily produced at Sierrita and Bagdad.  In addition, FCX is pursuing a project to restart the Climax open-pit molybdenum mine in Colorado.  All of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.  The North American copper mining operations are operated in an integrated fashion and have long-lived reserves with significant additional development potential.
North American Mining.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in North America totaled 339 million pounds in the first quarter of 2008, 32 million pounds higher than the pro forma first-quarter 2007 principally because of the commencement of production at the recently commissioned Safford mine.
 
FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum through the Henderson molybdenum mine and as a by-product at several of its copper mines.  The Henderson block-cave underground mining complex produces high-purity, chemical-grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value-added molybdenum chemical products.
 
In the first quarter of 2008, consolidated molybdenum sales from the Henderson and by-product mines totaled 20 million pounds, slightly higher than the pro forma first-quarter 2007 sales because ofby-product molybdenum production at Cerro Verde, which is sold by FCXs North American molybdenum sales company.
 
 
Approximately 85 percent of expected 2008 molybdenum production is committed for sale throughout the world pursuant to annual or quarterly agreements based primarily on prevailing market prices one month prior to the time of sale.  For 2009, 90 percent of sales is expected to be priced at approximate prevailing market prices.  The Dealer Oxide closing price for molybdenum on April 21, 2008, was $32.75 per pound.
Metals Week
 
5
 
 For the year, FCX expects sales from North American operations to approximate 1.5 billion pounds of copper and 75 million pounds of molybdenum, compared with 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 69 million pounds of molybdenum for pro forma year 2007.
   
  
 
  The following table summarizes first-quarter 2008 unit net cash costs at the North American copper mines and pro forma unit net cash costs for first-quarter 2007.
Unit Net Cash Costs for North American Copper Mines.
 
 
North America unit net cash costs were higher in first-quarter 2008 as compared with pro forma first-quarter 2007 primarily because of an increase in tons mined and lower ore grades at Morenci, combined with higher unit costs at Safford as the mine ramps up to full production rates.  Other increases in 2008 unit net cash costs relate to higher energy and labor costs.  The increased costs were partially offset by higher copper volumes and favorable molybdenum credits resulting from higher prices combined with increased molybdenum volumes.
 
Assuming an average copper price of $3.75 per pound and an average molybdenum price of $30 per pound for the remainder of 2008 and achievement of current 2008 sales estimates, FCX estimates that its 2008 average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North American copper mines would approximate $1.14 per pound of copper.  Unit net cash costs for 2008 would change by approximately $0.03 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the remainder of 2008.
 
  First-quarter 2008 unit net cash costs of $5.10 per pound of molybdenum at the Henderson molybdenum mine were higher, compared with pro forma unit net cash costs of $4.15 per pound for the 2007 quarter, primarily because of higher input costs, including labor, maintenance, supplies and energy costs.  Assuming achievement of current 2008 sales estimates, FCX estimates 2008 average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine at approximately $4.75 per pound of molybdenum.
Unit Net Cash Costs for Henderson Molybdenum Mine.
 
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  These operations are consolidated in FCXs financial statements, with outside ownership reported as minority interests.
South American Mining.
 
FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper and molybdenum concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.
 
6
 
 
 
 
South American copper sales in the first quarter of 2008 were higher than in pro forma first-quarter 2007 primarily reflecting higher production from Cerro Verdes new concentrator, partly offset by lower production at El Abra as a result of lower ore grades.
 
  The following table summarizes first-quarter 2008 unit net cash costs at the South American copper mines and pro forma unit net cash costs for first-quarter 2007.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
 
South America unit net cash costs were higher in the first quarter of 2008 compared with pro forma first-quarter 2007 primarily because of higher energy cost at all sites and higher profit sharing and contributions at Cerro Verde.  Other 2008 increases in unit net cash costs relate to higher crushing and milling costs at Cerro Verde and Candelaria.  These increases were partly offset by increased production from the recently expanded mill at Cerro Verde and favorable by-product credits from higher precious metal prices and molybdenum production at Cerro Verde in 2008.
 
In third-quarter 2007, FCX agreed to a five-year voluntary contribution program in Peru, resulting in charges totaling $14 million, $0.04 per pound, in the first quarter of 2008.  Contributions in future periods are expected to be 3.75 percent of Cerro Verdes net annual profit after income taxes.
 
For the year, FCX expects South American sales of 1.5 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 114 thousand ounces of gold for the pro forma year 2007.  In addition, FCX expects to produce six million pounds of molybdenum at Cerro Verde for the year 2008, compared with one million pounds for the pro forma year 2007.  Molybdenum produced at Cerro Verde is sold through FCXs North American molybdenum sales company.
 
Assuming achievement of current 2008 sales estimates, FCX estimates that its 2008 average unit net cash costs, including gold and molybdenum credits, for its South American mines would approximate $1.07 per pound of copper.
 
7
  Through its 90.64 percent owned subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesian Mining.
 
Indonesia copper and gold sales in the first quarter of 2008 were significantly lower than in the first quarter of 2007 as a result of the expected mining in a lower ore grade section of the Grasberg open pit.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production, resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.  PT-FI expects to continue mining in a relatively low-grade section of the Grasberg open pit in the second quarter of 2008 and in a higher-grade section in the second half of 2008.  Approximately 64 percent of 2008 copper sales and 65 percent of 2008 gold sales are estimated in the second half of the year.
 
FCX expects Indonesia sales of 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold for the year 2008, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 2.2 million ounces of gold for the year 2007.
 
  PT-FIs unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, averaged $1.08 per pound for first-quarter 2008, compared with a net credit of $0.30 per pound for first-quarter 2007.  The higher unit net cash costs in 2008 reflected the significantly lower copper and gold volumes, partly offset by higher gold prices during first-quarter 2008.  Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.  Because the majority of PT-FIs costs are fixed, unit costs vary with the volumes sold and the price of gold.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
 
Assuming average copper prices of $3.75 per pound and average gold prices of $900 per ounce for the remainder of 2008 and achievement of current 2008 sales estimates, PT-FI estimates that its 2008 unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, would approximate $0.73 per pound.  Unit net cash costs for 2008 would change by approximately $0.02 per pound for each $25 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the remainder of 2008.
8
OTHER ITEMS
 
Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned Spanish smelting unit, reported an operating loss of $3 million in the first quarter of 2008, compared with operating income of $13 million in the 2007 period.  Operating income was lower in the 2008 quarter because of lower treatment rates and higher operating costs primarily resulting from a stronger euro and higher energy costs.
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on PT-FIs and its South American sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until final sales to third parties occur.  Changes in these net deferrals resulted in additions to FCXs net income totaling $6 million, $0.01 per share, in the first quarter of 2008, compared with a decrease of $109 million, $0.45 per share, in the first quarter of 2007.  At March 31, 2008, FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI and its South American concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and minority interest sharing totaled $87 million.  Based on copper prices of $3.75 per pound and gold prices of $900 per ounce for the remainder of 2008 and current shipping schedules, FCX estimates that the net change in deferred profits on intercompany sales will not have a material impact on second-quarter 2008 net income.  The actual change in deferred intercompany profits may differ substantially from this estimate because of changes in the timing of shipments to affiliated smelters and metal prices.
 
 
DEVELOPMENT and EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
  FCX has significant development activities under way to expand its production volumes, extend its mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies.  Recently completed or current major projects include a major new mining complex at Safford, Arizona; a project to restart open-pit mining at Climax; a sulfide leach project to extend the mine life at El Abra; the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies in the Grasberg district and development of the highly prospective Tenke Fungurume project in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
Development Activities.
 
In addition to the projects currently under way, FCX is continuing to review its assets to evaluate the potential for expansion opportunities associated with existing ore bodies.  As an initial step, FCX will be developing attractive economic projects for incremental expansions at the Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines in Arizona and the Cerro Verde mine in Peru.  Based on scoping level estimates, these projects would provide incremental production ramping up to over 200 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum by 2011 with preliminary capital costs estimated to approximate $400 million.  Detailed engineering for these projects is under way, which is expected to result in revised capital estimates and potential project scope changes.  In addition, FCX is restarting the Miami mine in Arizona for an approximate five-year period, as it continues to conduct reclamation activities associated with historical mining operations.  FCX expects full rates of production of approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by 2010.  Capital investment for this restart is expected to approximate $100 million, primarily for mining equipment.  FCX is continuing to review potential large-scale expansion opportunities and other organic growth opportunities.
 
  Construction of a major new copper mine in Safford, Arizona, is complete and copper production is being ramped up to design capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year.   produced over 20 million pounds of copper in the first quarter of 2008.  The Safford copper mine produces ore from two open-pit mines and includes a solution extraction/electrowinning facility.  Construction commenced in August 2006 and was completed in advance of initial expectations.  The total capital investment for this project approximated $675 million.  FCX will continue to pursue significant additional exploration and development potential in this district, including the Lone Star project, a potentially large mineral resource that is currently being evaluated with a drilling program.
North America.
Safford
 
In December 2007, FCX announced plans to proceed with the restart of the mine near Leadville, Colorado.  Climax is believed to be the largest, highest grade and lowest cost undeveloped molybdenum ore body in the world.  A new air permit was received from the state of Colorado in March 2008.  Engineering is in progress and construction is scheduled to commence in the second quarter of
Climax
 
9
2008.  The initial $500 million project involves open pit mining and the construction of new milling facilities.  Annual production is expected to approximate 30 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2010.  The project is designed to enable the consideration of further large scale expansion of the Climax mine.  FCX is evaluating a second phase of the Climax project which could potentially double annual molybdenum production to approximately 60 million pounds.
 
  FCX is advancing the development of a large sulfide deposit at which will extend the mine life by over ten years.  Copper production from the sulfides is targeted to begin in 2010 and is expected to average approximately 325 million pounds of copper per year beginning in 2012, replacing oxide production.  Existing facilities at El Abra would be used to process the additional sulfide reserves.  Total initial capital for the project is estimated to approximate $450 million, the majority of which will be spent between 2008 and 2011.  In March 2008, FCX received approval of its environmental impact study associated with this project.
South America.
El
A
bra
 
  PT-FI has several projects in progress throughout the district, including developing its large-scale underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit.  The expansion of the currently producing Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine to 50,000 metric tons of ore per day is complete with first-quarter rates averaging 61,000 metric tons per day.  A further expansion of the DOZ mine to 80,000 metric tons per day is under way with completion targeted by 2010.  Other projects include the development of the high-grade Big Gossan mine, expected to ramp up to full production of 7,000 metric tons per day in 2011, and the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, which will provide access to the Grasberg underground ore body, the Kucing Liar ore body and future development of the mineralized areas below the DOZ mine.
Indonesia.
Grasberg
 
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the  copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC.  FCX is the operator of the project.  The initial project at Tenke Fungurume is based on mining and processing ore reserves approximating 100 million metric tons with ore grades of 2.3 percent copper and 0.3 percent cobalt.  FCX is currently engaged in drilling activities, exploration and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of this highly prospective district and expects the ore reserves to increase significantly over time.
Africa.
Tenke Fungurume
 
Approximately $475 million in project costs have been incurred to date.  Construction activities are being advanced with over 2,200 construction personnel onsite.  Current activities are focused on concrete placement, steel tank erection, structural steel and infrastructure development including shops, warehouses and extensive social and regional infrastructure programs.  All long lead time equipment has been ordered and initial production is targeted during the second half of 2009.  Annual production in the initial years of the project is expected to approximate 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt.  FCX expects the results of drilling activities will enable significant future expansion of the initial production.
 
FCX is responsible for funding 70 percent of the project development costs and is also responsible for financing its partners share of certain project overruns.  FCX is engaged in a review of the capital cost estimates for the project, which were estimated in October 2007 to be $900 million ($1 billion including advances to a third party for the refurbishment of provincial power facilities).  A recent capital cost review prepared in April 2008 indicates estimated capital costs of approximately $1.75 billion (approximately $1.9 billion including loans to a third party for power development).  These revised estimates include substantial amounts for infrastructure to support a larger scale operation than the initial phase of the project, including the provision of expanded electrical power-generating capacity and improved power reliability for the region.  This regional power infrastructure investment is now estimated to approximate $175 million, the majority of which is expected to be funded through a loan to the DRC State power authority.
 
The current estimates include expanded housing and support facilities for the project work force and enhancements to national roads and bridges.  The increased costs also reflect the recent substantial industry-wide escalation in construction costs and the incremental costs to develop the project in Central Africa, where infrastructure and logistics are challenging in developing a greenfield project.
 
FCX is currently reviewing these costs with its partners and will strive to enhance the economic returns of the project while progressing its plans for developing infrastructure in the area that will enable rapid expansion of this high potential resource.
 
10
The capital cost estimates and timing of start-up will continue to be reviewed and updated as the project development progresses.
   
 
  FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines and in other high potential areas around the world.  Aggregate exploration expenditures in 2008 are expected to approximate $180 million.
Exploration Activities.
 
FCXs exploration efforts in include drilling of the Lone Star deposit located approximately four miles from the Safford mine (ore body within the Safford district), as well as targets in the Morenci and Bagdad districts.  FCX is also conducting exploration activities near the Henderson ore body.  In , exploration is ongoing in and around the Cerro Verde, Candelaria and Ojos del Salado deposits. In , FCX is actively pursuing targets outside of the area of initial development at Tenke Fungurume and on the potential to add additional oxide reserves in the near term.
North America
South America
Africa
 
PT-FIs 2008 exploration efforts in  include testing extensions of the Deep Grasberg and Kucing Liar mine complex and evaluating targets in the area between the Ertsberg East and Grasberg mineral systems from the new Common Infrastructure tunnels.  Initial drill results from the Common Infrastructure tunnel are positive and additional drilling is in process.  FCX continues its efforts to resume exploration activities in certain prospective areas in Papua, outside Block A (the Grasberg contract area).
Indonesia
 
The number of drill rigs operating on these and other programs near FCXs mine sites increased from 26 at the end of March 2007 to 80 currently.
 
CASH and DEBT
 
At March 31, 2008, FCX had consolidated cash of $1.8 billion and net cash available to the parent company of $1.2 billion as shown below (in billions):
 
 
 
At March 31, 2008, FCX had $7.6 billion in debt, including $296 million under its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility.  Borrowings under the credit facility during the quarter were primarily used for working capital requirements, including a $598 million payment made in January 2008 upon the settlement of contracts related to the 2007 copper price protection program.  FCX expects to repay these borrowings over the next several months.
 
The following table summarizes FCXs debt transactions since December 31, 2007 (in billions):
 
 
 
In April 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services and Fitch Ratings raised FCXs corporate credit rating and the ratings on FCXs unsecured debt to BBB- (investment grade).
 
11
 
OUTLOOK
 
FCXs actual consolidated sales volumes for first-quarter 2008 and projected consolidated sales volumes for the year 2008 are shown below:
 
 
 
Because of mine sequencing at Grasberg and the ramp up of production at Safford, second-half 2008 production is expected to be higher than the first half.  Approximately 56 percent of consolidated copper sales and 64 percent of consolidated gold sales are expected in the second half of the year.  The achievement of FCXs sales estimates will be dependent on the achievement of targeted mining rates and expansion plans, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.
 
Using estimated sales volumes for 2008 and assuming 2008 average prices of $3.75 per pound of copper, $900 per ounce of gold and $30 per pound of molybdenum, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows would exceed $6.5 billion in 2008, including approximately $6 billion projected for the remainder of 2008.  Each $0.20 per pound change in copper prices in the balance of the year would have an approximately $450 million impact on 2008 operating cash flows.  Using flat pricing assumptions for the remainder of the year, second-half 2008 operating cash flows would be significantly higher than the first half.  FCXs capital expenditures for 2008 are currently estimated to approximate $3 billion, $0.6 million higher than previous estimates primarily because of higher capital costs associated with the Tenke Fungurume project.  With a continuation of favorable market conditions, FCX expects to generate cash flows during 2008 significantly greater than its capital expenditures, minority interests distributions, dividends and other cash requirements.
 
12
 
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder values through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.  FCXs current annual common dividend is $1.75 per share and there is a Board authorized 20-million share open market purchase program.  Common dividends currently total approximately $670 million per year and preferred dividends total approximately $255 million per year.
 
FCXs cash requirements for capital expenditures, dividends and minority interest distributions in the first quarter of 2008 exceeded its operating cash flows because of the significant cash requirements for working capital, requiring short-term borrowings under FCXs revolving credit facility.  No shares have been purchased under FCXs Board authorized 20-million share purchase program.  The continuation of the positive commodity prices and performance of operations would enable FCX to generate cash flows above capital expenditures and other cash requirements. FCXs Board of Directors has established a policy of returning cash generated in excess of requirements to shareholders through dividends and share purchases. FCXs management and its Board of Directors review the companys financial policy on an ongoing basis.
 
 
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets include the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume development project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on our web site at .
www.fcx.com
 
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes, and the impact of changes in deferred intercompany profits on earnings.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs (credits) per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements or pro forma consolidated financial results are provided in the attached presentation, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VII.
 
A copy of this press release is available on our web site, www.fcx.com.  A conference call with securities analysts about first-quarter 2008 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. EDT.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the webcast live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com. A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, May 16, 2008.
 
13
 
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
 
I
 
 
II
 
 
III
 
 
IV
 
 
V
 
The following pro forma information assumes that FCX acquired Phelps Dodge effective January 1, 2007. The most significant adjustments relate to the purchase accounting impacts in the carrying values of acquired metal inventories (including mill and leach stockpiles) and property, plant and equipment using March 19, 2007, metal prices and assumptions (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
Additionally, for comparative purposes, the historical Phelps Dodge financial information for first-quarter 2007 represents results from continuing operations, and therefore, excludes the results of PDIC (i.e., discontinued operations).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VI
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations. In the co-product method presentations, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. Additionally, beginning in first-quarter 2008, FCX included the impacts of purchase accounting fair value adjustments as additional depreciation, depletion and amortization, and noncash and nonrecurring costs. Accordingly, FCX revised the first-quarter 2007 pro forma disclosures for its North American copper mining operations, Henderson molybdenum mine, and South American mining operations to conform to the current period presentation. Presentations under both methods are shown together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements or pro forma consolidated financial results.
 
VII
 
North American Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
 
 
VIII
 
North American Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
 
IX
 
Henderson Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
a
 
X
 
South American Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
 
XI
 
South American Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs (Pro Forma)
 
XII
 
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
Indonesian Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
 
XIII
 
Indonesian Mining Product Revenues and Production Costs and Unit Net Cash Costs
 
XIV
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs first-quarter 2008 income tax provision from continuing operations resulted from taxes on international operations ($579 million) and U.S. taxes ($150 million). The difference between FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate of approximately 33 percent for first-quarter 2008 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion and an international tax rate differential, partially offset by withholding taxes on earnings from Indonesian and South American mining operations and a U.S. foreign tax credit limitation.
FCXs first-quarter 2007 income tax provision from continuing operations resulted from taxes on earnings at international operations ($504 million), partly offset by a tax benefit from losses in the U.S. ($46 million). The first-quarter 2007 income tax provision primarily related to the operations of PT Freeport Indonesia and also included $31 million associated with Phelps Dodges earnings for the 12-day period ended March 31, 2007. The difference between FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate of approximately 43 percent for first-quarter 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to withholding taxes incurred in connection with earnings from Indonesian mining operations.
A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes for first-quarter 2008 and 2007 follows (in millions, except percentages):
 
XV
 
FCX has a regional approach to the management of its mining operations. FCX has organized its mining operations geographically into three primary operating divisions  North American mining, South American mining and Indonesian mining. Notwithstanding this geographic structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine by mine basis. Therefore, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines. Operating segments that meet SFAS No. 131 thresholds are reportable segments. Further discussion of the reportable segments included in FCXs operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segment  Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining, follows.
  North American mining operations are comprised of copper operations from mining through rod production, molybdenum operations from mining through conversion to chemical and metallurgical products, and the marketing and sale of both product lines. The North American mining division includes the Morenci copper mine, Rod & Refining operations and Molybdenum operations as reportable segments. In addition to copper, the Morenci mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a by-product.
North American Mining.
Other North American mining operations, which are not considered reportable segments, include FCXs other operating southwestern U.S. copper mines  Bagdad, Sierrita, Safford, Chino and Tyrone. In addition to copper, the Bagdad, Sierrita, and Chino mines produce molybdenum, gold and silver, and the Sierrita mine also produces rhenium. Other North American mining operations also include the Miami copper mine, which FCX is restarting for an approximate five-year period; the Miami smelter, which is the most significant source of sulfuric acid for the various North American leaching operations; and a sales company, which functions as an agent to purchase and sell copper from the North American mines and the Rod & Refining segment and also purchases and sells any copper not sold by the South American mines to third parties.
  South American mining includes the Cerro Verde copper mine as a reportable segment. Other South American mining operations, which are not considered reportable segments, include FCXs other South American copper mines  Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra.
South American Mining.
  Indonesian mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg copper and gold mining operations and PT Puncakjaya Powers power-generating operations (after eliminations with PT Freeport Indonesia).
Indonesian Mining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
  Intersegment sales by the Indonesian and South American mines are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale. Intersegment sales by any individual mine may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Other.
FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital to the operating divisions and individual segments. However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated. All federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level with the exception of foreign income taxes, which are generally recorded and managed at the applicable mine or operation. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
 
XVI
 
a.
 
 
Includes PT Freeport Indonesias sales to PT Smelting totaling $464 million in first-quarter 2008 and $584 million in first-quarter 2007.
 
c.    
Includes total assets of $1.1 billion at March 31, 2007, and capital expenditures of $1 million in first-quarter 2007 associated with discontinued operations.
 
XVII
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


