FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20080902160831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
We are filing with this report copies of each of the (1) Amended and Restated Mining Convention dated as of September 28, 2005, among the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), La Gnrale des Carrires et des Mines (Gcamines), Lundin Holdings Ltd (now called TF Holdings Limited) and Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L. and (2) Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement dated as of September 28, 2005, by and between Gcamines and TF Holdings Limited (TF Holdings) and its subsidiaries.  The Amended and Restated Mining Convention and the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement are collectively referred to in this report as the Restated Agreements.  Through our 70% interest in TF Holdings, we hold an effective 57.75% interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC and we are the operator of the project.
Background & Summary of Key Terms
In 1996, following an international tender process, the government of the DRC (then called Zaire) and TF Holdings entered into a mining convention for the purpose of developing the concessions (Mining Convention). At the same time, Gcamines and TF Holdings formed Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L. (Tenke Fungurume Mining) to develop and operate the concessions.  The Mining Convention was signed by the then-current Ministers of Mines, Finance, Plan and Portfolio, and was approved by the government of Zaire.  Following a period of civil war, the promulgation of the 2002 Mining Code and establishment of the internationally recognized Transitional Government in June 2003, the Mining Convention and agreement relating to the formation of Tenke Fungurume Mining were renegotiated. These negotiations resulted in the execution of the Restated Agreements, the key terms of which are summarized below:
In February 2008, we received a letter from the Ministry of Mines, Government of the DRC, seeking our comment on proposed material modifications to the Restated Agreements, including the amount of transfer payments payable to the government, the governments percentage ownership and involvement in the management of the mine, regularization of certain matters under Congolese law and the implementation of social plans.  The Restated Agreements were negotiated transparently and approved by the Government of the DRC following extended negotiations, and we believe they comply with Congolese law and are enforceable without modifications. We are currently working cooperatively with the Ministry of Mines to resolve these matters while continuing with our project development activities.
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ Kathleen L. Quirk
----------------------------------------
Kathleen L. Quirk
Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer
(authorized signatory and
Principal Financial Officer)
Date:  September 2, 2008
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
ii
 
Appendix A: The Property
Appendix B: Tax and Customs Provisions
Appendix C: Securities Provisions
Appendix D: Agreement with the Banque Centrale du Congo
Appendix E: Designation Letter to ICSID
 
iii
 
 
AMONG
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
represented by the Minister of Mines, the Minister of Planning, the Minister of Finance, and the Portfolio Minister, hereinafter referred to as 
the State
OF THE FIRST PART
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
a public company incorporated under the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo, having its registered office at 419, avenue Kamanyola, B.P. 450, Lubumbashi, Democratic Republic of Congo, hereinafter referred to as 
Gcamines
LUNDIN HOLDINGS LTD.
a company incorporated under the laws of Bermuda, having its registered office at Cedar House, 41 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda, hereinafter referred to as 
Lundin Holdings
TENKE FUNGURUME MINING S.A.R.L.
a company incorporated under the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo, having its registered office at Enceinte du Golf Club Lubumbashi, Democratic Republic of Congo, registered with the Nouveau Registre du Commerce of Lubumbashi under n 7325, hereinafter referred to as 
T.F.M.
 
1
 
IT IS CONSIDERED AS FOLLOWS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
NOW THEREFORE IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
Article I:  Definitions
 
1.1           
Definitions
 
In this Agreement, including its annexes, the following capitalized terms will have the respective meanings ascribed thereto:
 
 
(b)            is defined in .
Affected Party
Article 23
 
(c)            means, with respect to a Shareholder:
Affiliate
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
   180 days after the date of the first shipment of Product, it being understood that all monthly production will be shipped.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)            A description of that part of the Property which will be placed into Production.
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
(viii)        All necessary environmental impact studies and the costs thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
(xiii)         Projected cash flows and an economic forecast for the life of the mine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2           
Gender and Plural
 
In this Agreement, all references to the masculine gender include the feminine gender and vice-versa and all references to the singular include the plural and vice-versa.
 
1.3           
Periods of Time
 
When calculating the period of time within which or following which any act is to be done or step taken pursuant to this Agreement, the date which is the reference date in calculating such period will be excluded and the last day of such period will be included.  If the last day is not a Business Day, the period in question will end on the next following Business Day.
 
 
8
 
 
 
(a)           
This Agreement
 
The words hereinabove, herein and hereof and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular article, section or other subdivision.
 
(b)           
Headings
 
The headings are for convenience only and do not form a part of this Agreement and are not intended to interpret, define and limit the scope, extent or intent of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
 
(c)           
Law
 
Any reference to a law includes the executory measures made pursuant thereto, all amendments made to such law or executory measures and any law or executory measure that may be passed which has the effect of supplementing or superseding such law or executory measure.
 
(d)           
International Financial Reporting Standards
 
Any financial determination required to be made hereunder will be performed in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
 
 
Article 2:  Object
 
The object of this Agreement is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
TITLE III  MINING RIGHTS
 
 
3.1           
Representations and Warranties of the State
 
The State hereby represents and warrants to T.F.M., to Lundin Holdings and to Gcamines that the statements contained in this were correct and complete as of the date of the Original Convention and have continued, without interruption, to be correct and complete from that date through and as of the date of this Agreement, moreover; the State represents and warrants to the Class A Shareholders, Class B Shareholders, and T.F.M. as follows:
Article 3.1
 
(a)           
Rightholder
 
Subject only as specified in , prior to the transfer of the Property to T.F.M.:  (i) Gcamines was the sole holder of all and any rights, titles and interest in and to the Property;  (ii) Gcamines had the right to transfer its interest in the Property to T.F.M., free and clear of any and all Encumbrances; (iii) Gcamines held any and all authorizations necessary to proceed with Operations on the Property including without limitation all surface rights with respect to the Property and access, under conditions to be agreed upon with the providers of the services in question, to all infrastructures (water, electricity, rail, roads, airport and so forth) necessary for Operations; and (iv) there were no matters that affect the rights, titles and interest of Gcamines in the Property, or that could materially impair the ability of T.F.M. to carry on Operations.
Article 3.3
 
The State shall continue to ensure that T.F.M. shall have completely free and unencumbered title and quiet enjoyment of the Property.  In the event any third party claims or proves any right, title or interest in or to the Property, claimed to have existed prior to entry into force of this Agreement, the State undertakes, at its cost, to immediately do all such acts and things necessary to completely clear the Property of such third party right, title or interest, or claim thereto, and shall at all times indemnify T.F.M. and the other Shareholders and hold them harmless from any Claims, damages, costs or liabilities in connection therewith.
 
(b)           
Third Party `
 
Prior to the transfer of the Property to T.F.M., no Person other than Gcamines had any right or title to the Property and no Person is entitled to any royalty or other payment whatsoever in the nature of rent or royalty on any minerals, metals or concentrates or any other Products whatsoever deriving from the Property other than as provided in this Agreement.
 
(c)           
Validity of Rights and Titles over the Property
 
Except as specified in , until the entry into force of the Formation Agreement, all of the rights and titles relating to the Property have been validly recorded in accordance with the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  The prospecting work, processes and other operations carried on or conducted by or on behalf of Gcamines in respect of the Property have been carried on or conducted in a sound and workmanlike manner and in compliance with sound geological and geophysical Exploration and Mining, engineering and metallurgical practices.  All such work and Operations are in compliance with all laws, statutes, decrees, ordinances,
Article 3.3
 
10
permits, rules, regulations, judgments and orders or decisions rendered by any, ministry, department or administrative entity, judiciary or any other judicial body having competent jurisdiction or any regulatory agency.  In respect of the matters specified in , and to the extent it may be determined at any time in the future to be otherwise necessary, the State shall take any remedial measures and otherwise assist T.F.M. in taking required action, or in obtaining any waivers, to ensure compliance with such requirements.
Article 3.3
 
(d)           
Work Orders
 
There are no outstanding work orders or actions required or reasonably anticipated to be required to be taken in respect of the rehabilitation or restoration of the Property or relating to environmental matters in respect of the Property or any Operations thereon.
 
 
All taxes, contributions, duties, fees and assessments imposed, levied or charged upon or against the Property, as at the date of entry into force of this Agreement, are paid in full and the Property is in good standing in accordance with the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
 
(f)           
Actions
 
Except as specified in , there are no outstanding or threatened actions or suits which, if successful, would or could affect the Property, the Agreement with the Banque Centrale du Congo, the T.F.M. Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, the Agreement for the Formation of T.F.M., or this Agreement.
Section 3.3
 
(g)           
[intentionally left blank]
 
(h)           
Rights and Titles held by T.F.M.
 
As of the date of the transfer of the Property, T.F.M. has received the quiet enjoyment of the Property and will hold all Rights and Titles on the Property.   The State acknowledges that T.F.M. has fulfilled all requirements with respect to validation and conformation of all existing Rights and Titles on the Property, and all Rights and Titles on the Property are, and are warranted by the State to be, valid and existing and in good standing and do not contain, and are warranted by the State not to contain, any unusual burdensome provision, condition or limitation.  To the extent it may be determined at any time in the future that T.F.M. has not obtained validation and conformation of all existing Rights and Titles on the Property, the State shall take any remedial measures and otherwise assist T.F.M. in obtaining any waivers to ensure compliance with such requirements and uninterrupted continuation of T.F.M.s entitlement to all Rights and Titles on the Property.
 
As long as the Property is exploitable and this Agreement remains in force, and except in case of withdrawal or forfeiture pursuant to of this Agreement, the State undertakes to renew as of right, upon filing of the documents required by law, all Rights and Titles on the Property, so that the Operations can be normally conducted until their end.
Article 48
 
 
11
 
(i)           
Material Information
 
The State has made available to T.F.M. and to the Class B Shareholders all material information in its possession or control relating to the Property.
 
(j)           
Law and Judgments
 
The signature, delivery and performance of this Agreement does not, and will not in the future, violate any legal rule whatsoever, nor any judicial or similar decisions whatsoever.
 
(k)           
Infrastructure
 
To the extent that this lies within its control or influence, the State will use its best efforts to enable T.F.M. to avail itself of all existing infrastructure (water, electricity, rail, roads, airport and so forth) at the most favorable terms and conditions of service possible, which will have to be negotiated with the providers of such services.
 
(l)           
Authorization for the Agreement for the Formation of T.F.M.
 
The Portfolio Minister had the authority to authorize, in the name of the State, the signature by Gcamines of the Agreement for the Formation of T.F.M., and T.F.M. has been duly constituted in accordance therewith.
 
(m)           
Validity of the Agreement with the Banque Centrale du Congo
 
The Agreement Between the Banque du Zaire and Tenke Fungurume Mining, dated December 11, 1996, a copy of the French and English versions of which are attached hereto as , constitutes the Agreement with the Banque Centrale du Congo for purposes of this Agreement and constitutes implementation of hereof, and is valid, binding and in full force and effect and defines the financial and exchange system applicable to T.F.M. and the Project.
Appendix D
Title VIII
 
3.2           
Survival of Representations and Warranties
 
The correctness of each representation and warranty made by a Party in this Agreement and any undertaking to comply with such representations and warranties constitute for the other Parties an essential condition to the signature of this Agreement.  Each of such representations and warranties may be waived in whole or in part only by the Party in favor of which they are made and all such representations and warranties will survive the signature, delivery and performance of this Agreement, as well as any assignment and termination hereof.  The Party in breach of any of these representations or warranties will indemnify and hold harmless the other parties from and against all Claims arising out of or in connection with such breach.
 
 
The company Travers Bton au Katanga S.P.R.L., abbreviated TRABEKA has secured  judgments against Gcamines and T.F.M. with respect to certain claimed interests in the Buildings and Fixtures.  The State shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that Gcamines will satisfy such judgments or otherwise resolve such Claims (for example by appealing to the
 
12
Supreme Court in the interest of the law as requested by the Minister of Justice of the Republic of the Democratic Republic of Congo to the Attorney General of the Republic, on 25 April 2002), without cost to T.F.M., and shall indemnify T.F.M. and the non-Gcamines Shareholders and hold them harmless from any Claims, damages, costs or liabilities of any nature in connection with such judgment and Claims.
 
Article 4:  Transfer of the Property
 
The State confirms that it has duly authorized Gcamines to transfer the Property to T.F.M. and that Gcamines has validly transferred the Property to T.F.M.
 
In consideration for this transfer, Lundin Holdings undertakes to pay the Transfer Bonus to Gcamines, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
  
1
If the signed Amended and Restated Mining Convention, the T.F.M. Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement and the amended By-Laws of T.F.M. do not enter into force by the end of September 2005 (including approval by Presidential Ordinance or Decree where appropriate), the two payments of sub paragraphs (i) and (ii) will amount to US$10 million each instead of, respectively, US$15 and US$5 million.
13
 
 
 
 
 
Article 5:  Definition of the Project
 
It is the intent of the Parties that T.F.M. develop the Project as agreed with the State and Gcamines.  Initially, the Project will be designed to produce at least 40,000 tonnes of copper with associated cobalt per year (the ).  The activities required to develop the Revised Project and subsequent Development of the Property shall be conducted in phases as summarized below
Revised Project
:
Phase 1 involves finalization, approval and signature by all of the Parties, and authorization by ministerial arrte or letter and presidential decrees, of this Agreement and the T.F.M. Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, and adoption of the revised By-Laws of T.F.M. implementing the T.F.M. Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement.
Phase 2 -- 
Final Feasibility Study
The Feasibility Study based on the Revised Project will be prepared to normal industry standards, based on current costs and infrastructure conditions.  Phase 2 will also include the putting in place of the re-establishment of SNEL power, SNCC rail, international sulfur supply and other transport contracts that were substantially in place between T.F.M. and third parties prior to 1999.  Basic design level engineering will be conducted and detailed logistic planning for the Revised Project plant will be performed such that immediately upon Board of Directors approval, the construction phase of the Revised Project will commence.   Phase 2 is expected to take approximately 13 months following completion of Phase 1.
 
14
 
Phase 3 -- Revised Project Plant Construction
Upon the decision of the Class B Shareholders to commence construction of the Revised Project, site preparation and construction of the Revised Project plant will commence and is expected to take approximately 26 months. Copper production could come on stream in less than 22 months, with cobalt production to follow shortly thereafter.  Such decision of the Board of Directors shall be notified to the State and Gcamines in accordance with .
Article 39
Within 90 days following the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production, a feasibility study will be started for an expansion of the Revised Project mine and processing facilities.  Subject to feasibility determinations, the actual size of this first expansion will be based on exploration results, expansion project economics, the strength of copper and cobalt metal markets, country conditions and financing factors.
Timing, design and construction of the first major expansion to the Revised Project facilities will be based on the expansion feasibility study produced in Phase 4.
It is the intent of the Parties to develop the Property to its fullest extent subject to normal feasibility determinations, and in a similar manner that shareholders of Lundin Holdings have developed other major operations around the world.  Decisions on all expansions will be made taking into account the total resource potential, specific expansion economics, metals market fundamentals, and financing considerations.  Any subsequent plant expansion will also take cobalt market supply and demand into consideration in addition to copper production strategies.  The Parties mutually recognize the desire to reach a production level of 130,000 tonnes per year of copper with associated cobalt, subject to feasibility study considerations, at the end of the fifth year following the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production.  Similarly, the Parties mutually recognize the desire to reach a production level of 400,000 tonnes per year of copper with associated cobalt in the eleventh year following the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production.
 
 
 
Forty-five (45) Class A Shares, all held by Gcamines; and
Fifty-five (55) Class B Shares,
 
15
 
held as follows:    Lundin Holdings --  50 Class B Shares
Five individual shareholders each holding one (1) Class B Share
 
(b)           T.F.M. shall effect a restructuring of its share capital which will be represented by 200 Shares and a change of class of the Shares where appropriate, and the Class B Shareholders and Gcamines shall assign and transfer such of their Shares, in such manner as shall result in the following Shareholders and respective holdings of the Shares:
 
Lundin Holdings --       80%,or 160 Class B Shares;  Five individual shareholders each holding  0.5%, or 1 Class B Share; and
Gcamines - --                  17.5% non-dilutable, or 35 Class A Shares; and
 
all provisions of the Agreement for the Formation of T.F.M. and the By-Laws of T.F.M. regarding restrictions on the transfer of Shares, to the extent otherwise applicable, shall be waived for purposes of the transfers required to achieve the foregoing shareholdings.
 
 
 
It is acknowledged that Law No. 77-027 of 17 November 1977 has been repealed by article 343 of the Mining Code and, accordingly, shall not apply to T.F.M.
 
 
 
The tax and customs regime applicable to the Project shall be only as set forth in the provisions of Title IX of the Mining Code as existing on the date of this Agreement, and as from the entry into force of this Agreement (except as applies to the transitional measures for the 2005 fiscal year set forth in Appendix B of this Agreement).  Such provisions are appended hereto as and incorporated as an integral part of this Agreement, and shall be applied and construed as provided in hereof.
Appendix B
Article 51
 
Article 9:  Special Customs Clearing Procedures
 
The State undertakes, and all relevant competent authorities thereto shall be bound, to grant to T.F.M. all possible facilities and dispensations to permit the maximum shortening of the time taken to forward its imports from the place of purchase to the site of exploitation, and more particularly:
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
Article 10:  Controls
 
 
 
 
Article 11:  Annual Audit
 
 
 
 
Article 12:  Marketing and Export
 
 
17
 
 
 
Article 13:  Agreement of the Banque Centrale
 
du Congo
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18
(c)           T.F.M. will however be bound to:
 
 
 
 
 
Article 14:  Sales
 
Pursuant to the provisions of and above, the production of T.F.M. will be sold in foreign currency and T.F.M. will be entitled to freely dispose of the proceeds of such sales.
Articles 12
13 (a)
 
Article 15:  Accounts Abroad
 
 
 
(i)           the payments made by the Shareholders of T.F.M.;
(ii)           the calls made by T.F.M. on the loans granted by its financial backers;
(iii)           the sales proceeds, pursuant to and , above; and
Articles 12
14
(iv)           the proceeds from other transfers and possible commercial or financial dealings.
 
(c)           From these accounts will be deducted the amounts necessary for
 
19
(ii)           the payment of salaries and remunerations owed in foreign currency;
(iv)           covering the operating costs in the Democratic Republic of Congo;
(v)           the reimbursement of the Advances and other debt of T.F.M.;
(vi)           the payment of management and other fees;
(vii)           the payment of dividends;
(vii)           the establishment of any reserve necessary to cover future costs and risks;
(ix)           the payment of the liquidation bonus in favor of the Shareholders; and
 
Article 16:  Personnel
 
 
 
 
20
 
Article 17:  Expatriate Personnel
 
Considering the importance of the Project the State authorizes T.F.M. to engage at any one time a maximum of 50 expatriates.  It shall grant each expatriate employee a work permit having a validity period of not less than 5 years.  The Arrt Dpartemental (A.D.) n86/001 of March 31, 1986 concerning the positions exclusively reserved for Congolese Nationals shall not apply to T.F.M.
 
Article 18:  Training and Anticipatory Management
 
 
 
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
Article 20:  Health and Safety - Precautions
 
T.F.M. will apply the legal provisions in matters of health and safety and social security.  T.F.M. will ensure the good functioning and maintenance of the installations dedicated therefor in the areas which are granted to it.
 
Article 21:  Agriculture and Social Investments
 
In full satisfaction of any laws applicable to agricultural and social investments associated with the Project, T.F.M. will undertake to create a fund jointly managed by T.F.M. and concerned local authorities to assist the local communities affected by the Project with development of local infrastructure and related services (such as those pertaining to health, education and agriculture).  This fund will be financed by payments from T.F.M. at a rate of 0.3% of the net sales revenues (ex-works from the mine) of production.
 
 
Article 22:  Environmental Protection
 
 
22
 
     related to environmental matters with respect to the Property that could lead to any environmental obligations or responsibilities.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 23:  Force Majeure
 
 
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
Article 24:  Confidentiality
 
All data and information provided to or received by the Parties with respect to this Agreement, the other Parties and/or the Property, will be treated as confidential and will not be disclosed without the prior written consent of the other Parties (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) to any other Person whatsoever, except to Affiliates, or as required to effect a third party sale, as required to procure financing or as required by law or any regulatory authority whatsoever having jurisdiction.  Where disclosure is required by law or a regulatory authority having jurisdiction, a copy of the information required to be disclosed including without limitation any press release, will be provided to the other Parties within as reasonable a time limit as possible before such disclosure.  No Party will be liable to the other Parties in respect of any interpretation, opinion, conclusion or other non-contractual information included by the Party in any report or other document provided to the receiving Person whether included by negligence or otherwise.
 
 
Article 25:  International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes
 
 
(b)           In order to give full force and effect to this ICSID arbitration clause:
 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 26:  Substitute Arbitration Procedure
 
All disputes, controversies or Claims arising out of or related to this Agreement, or the breach hereof, for which the ICSID would declare itself not to be competent shall be settled in accordance with the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce by 3 arbitrators appointed in accordance with such Rules.  The arbitration shall be held in Geneva, Switzerland.  The arbitration will be held in the French and English languages. The arbitral award shall be in writing and in the French and English languages, and shall be final and binding on the Parties.  Judgment on the award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction or application may be made to such court for a judicial acceptance for the award and an order of enforcement, as the case may be.
 
Article 27:  Immunity of Jurisdiction and of Execution
 
Concerning any dispute referred to in and and any arbitration award or court decision rendered pursuant to and , the State hereby expressly waives any right of immunity of jurisdiction and of execution.
Articles 25
26
Articles 25
26
 
Article 28:  Disputes with Another Government
 
In the event that the Project or the Operations are adversely affected by the actions or inaction of any government or governmental authority of any country or subdivision thereof other than the Democratic Republic of Congo, the State will, to the extent it judges appropriate given the
 
25
circumstances, assist T.F.M. and the Shareholders in negotiations with such other government or governmental authority to attempt to eliminate such adverse effect.
 
 
Article 29:  Applicable Law
 
Any question relating to this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo and if necessary supplemented by the principles of international commercial law applicable to the case.
 
Article 30:  Stabilized Legislation
 
 
 
Article 31:  More Favorable Provisions
 
In the event that a law or regulation adopted in the Democratic Republic of Congo after the date of the Original Convention contains a system or provisions more favorable than any of those provided in this Agreement, then such system or such provisions will be immediately applicable at the option of T.F.M., as of right, in place of the corresponding system or provisions in this Agreement.
 
Article 32:  Compliance with Laws and Regulations
 
Subject to the provisions of , and , T.F.M. undertakes to comply with applicable laws and regulations in force in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  T.F.M. will make every effort to obtain from the members of its expatriate staff and their families their compliance with regulations on the entrance and residence of foreigners and their fulfillment of their normal obligations with that respect.
Articles 30
31
51
 
Article 33:  Conditions of Commercial Activities
 
 
 
26
     participate in the Project by bidding on, and if selected, by providing services to T.F.M. through contract service agreements that are bid out to qualified third parties.
   
 
 
Article 34:  Access by State Officials
 
Subject to receipt of reasonable prior notice, T.F.M. undertakes to grant and facilitate to the duly empowered State officials, access to its books and to its industrial, administrative and social installations, to allow the reviews and controls provided by the laws and regulations or by this Agreement, which actions the State shall undertake is such manner as will minimize interference with the Operations.  Within the legal set periods of time and pursuant to the legal conditions, T.F.M. will convey to them all necessary documents and will answer all questionnaires and statistic requests provided by the regulations or by this Agreement.
 
Article 35:  Various Formalities and Authorizations
 
The State undertakes, for the whole duration of this Agreement, to assist T.F.M. in complying with any administrative and regulatory formality, and ensure that T.F.M. obtains, within normal times and conditions, all visas, possible administrative permits and derogations, land rights, immovable rights and various rights necessary for the good performance of the Project, including those requires for the validation, conformation and renewal of all Rights and Titles on the Property.
 
 
27
 
 
Article 36:  Extension of the Agreement
 
The benefit of all the rights and advantages resulting from this Agreement is extended, , to any individual or entity participating in the realization of the Project, but exclusively to the extent of his/its activities concerning the Project.  In return, the undertakings and obligations resulting from this Agreement will be imposed, subject to the same conditions, to such individual or entity.  T.F.M. will make every effort to ensure that such individual or entity fulfils such undertakings and satisfies such obligations as it would have done itself.
mutatis mutandis
 
Article 37:  Assignment and Substitution
 
 
However:
 
 
 
 
In case of assignment or transfer, the assignee or transferee will have to adhere to this Agreement, and it will benefit from all rights related thereto and will be bound by all undertakings stipulated herein.
 
 
 
28
 
Article 38:  Modifications
 
The clauses of this Agreement may be amended or modified only by a written agreement of the Parties.  Any additional agreement or modification to this Agreement will enter into force on the day of its approval by Presidential Decree or Ordinance, as applicable.
 
Article 39:  Notices
 
All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder will be in writing and will be deemed to have been validly given, if telegraphed, or mailed by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid or delivered in person at the addresses indicated below or to such other address as the Party to be notified will have furnished to the other Parties in writing.  All notices will be given:  (i) by personal delivery to the Party, or (ii) by electronic communication, with a confirmation sent by registered or certified mail return receipt requested; or (iii) by registered or certified mail return receipt requested.  All notices will be effective and will be deemed delivered:  (i) if by personal delivery on the date of delivery if delivered during normal business hours, and, if not, on the next Business Day following delivery; (ii) if by electronic communication on the next Business Day following receipt of the electronic communication, and (iii) if by mail on the next Business Day after actual receipt, provided that in the event of mail strike, all notices will be given by personal delivery or by electronic communication as herein provided.
The concerned addresses are the following:
 
29
 
 
 
Article 40:  Duration and Entering into Force
 
This Agreement will enter into force after its signature by all interested Parties and upon the date of its approval by Presidential Decree, and will remain in effect for so long as the Property is exploitable.
 
Article 41:  Language of the Agreement and Measure System
 
 
 
(c)           The measure system applicable is the metric system.
 
 
30
 
Article 42:  Entire Agreement
 
Without prejudice to , this Agreement and the T.F.M. Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement contain the entire understanding of the Parties with respect to the Project.
Article 51
 
Article 43:  Enurement
 
This Agreement will enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns; nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to confer upon any third party any rights or remedies hereunder.
 
Article 44:  Waiver
 
Failure by either Party hereto to insist in any one or more instances upon the strict performance of any one of the covenants contained herein will not be construed as a waiver of such covenant.  Any waiver by any Party to a provision of this Agreement will be valid only if expressly made in writing.
 
Article 45:  Further Undertakings
 
Each of the Parties undertakes that at any time, and in particular after the effective date of the T.F.M. Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, upon the request of the other Party, it will do, sign, acknowledge and deliver all such further acts, documents and undertakings as may be reasonably required for the better performance of all the terms of this Agreement.
 
Article 46:  Cooperation in Financing
 
The State is informed that Lundin Holdings or T.F.M. is intending to secure partial financing for the Project from international agencies and banks and Lundin Holdings confirms its ability to do so.  The State agree to co-operate fully with Lundin Holdings and T.F.M. in facilitating the obtaining of such financing, including signing any such documents and giving any such assurances as may reasonably be required to conclude such financings; , , this is without financial commitment on the part of the State.
provided
however
 
Article 47:  Securities
 
The provisions of Title VI of the Mining Code as existing on the date of this Agreement shall govern the rights and obligations of the Parties with respect to the mortgage or pledge of Project assets as security for financing.  Such provisions are appended hereto as and incorporated as an integral part of this Agreement, and shall be applied and construed as provided in .
Appendix C
Article 51
 
 
31
 
Article 48:  Withdrawal  Forfeiture
 
 
 
 
 
Article 49:  Breach of Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement
In the event Gcamines breaches a material provision of the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement or terminates without cause the Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, Lundin Holdings shall have the right, but not the obligation, to suspend its performance under this Agreement until such time as Gcamines has cured such breach.
(x)
(y)
32
 
Article 50:  Invalid Provision
 
The unlawfulness or invalidity of any provision of this Agreement or of any representation contained herein on the part of any Party will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof or any representation herein contained.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the unlawfulness or invalidity of a provision of this Agreement materially and adversely alters the rights of a Party as contemplated herein, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to substitute such lawful and valid provisions as will equitably preserve the intended benefits of this Agreement for all of the Parties; , , that failing agreement on such substituted provision, this Agreement may be voided by the adversely affected Party.
provided
however
 
 
The Mining Code and the Regulations shall not apply to this Agreement or to the Rights and Titles on the Property (except the provisions concerning validation and conformation of same).  Incorporation of certain provisions of the Mining Code in this Agreement by setting them forth in and is for convenience only, and shall not be deemed to be an election of the Parties that the Mining Code apply in its entirety as contemplated by article 340 of the Mining Code.   The provisions set forth in and are contractual provisions agreed among the Parties, are an integral part of this Agreement and shall be construed in harmony with all other provisions hereof.  Any provisions of the Mining Code and/or the Regulations that are referenced in the provisions included in and , but are not otherwise included therein, shall not apply and shall be disregarded for purposes of this Agreement.  In the event exclusion of the application of such references creates an ambiguity or otherwise raises an issue regarding the interpretation or application of the provisions of or , such issue shall be resolved by the Parties in good faith and in such manner as will most fully give effect to the benefits conveyed upon T.F.M. and the Shareholders by this Agreement.
Appendix B
Appendix C
Appendix B
Appendix C
Appendix B
Appendix C
Appendix B
Appendix C
 
This Agreement supplements, amends and restates the Original Convention, and shall enter into force on the date of its approval by Presidential Decree.
Pursuant to articles 340 and 343 (a) of the Mining Code, this Agreement remains governed by Ordonnance-Loi n 81-013 of 2 April 1981 with respect to the general legislation in force regarding mines and hydrocarbons.
 
 
33
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement on the   day of , 2005, in original copies, ___ in English and __ in French, each Party acknowledging receipt of an English and of a French copy.
28
September
16
8
8
 
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
 
    /s/ Signed                                                         
The Minister of Mines
 
 
 
     /s/ Signed
                                                        
The Minister of Planning
    /s/ Signed                                                         
The Minister of Finance
  /s/ Signed                                                           
The Portfolio Minister
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
   /s/ Signed                                                             
LUNDIN HOLDINGS LTD.
   /s/ Signed                                                             
TENKE FUNGURUME MINING S.A.R.L.
   /s/ Signed                                                             
 
34
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule A:                               The Property
Schedule B:                                Form of Amended and Restated By-Laws of T.F.M.
 
 
 
This AMENDED AND RESTATED SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT (this ) is made as of 28 September, 2005, by and among
Agreement
, a public company incorporated under the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo, having its registered office at 419, avenue Kamanyola, B.P. 450, Lubumbashi, Democratic Republic of Congo;
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
hereinafter referred to as  or
Gcamines
Class A Shareholder
OF THE FIRST PART
, a company incorporated under the laws of Bermuda, having its registered office at Cedar House, 41 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda (); and
LUNDIN HOLDINGS LTD.
Lundin Holdings
, a Bermuda company, having its registered office at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda (); and
TEMBO LTD.
Tembo
, a Bermuda company, having its registered office at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda (); and
FARU LTD.
Faru
, a Bermuda company, having its registered office at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda (); and
MBOKO LTD.
Mboko
, a Bermuda company, having its registered office at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda (); and
CHUI LTD.
Chui
, a Bermuda company, having its registered office at Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM12, Bermuda (); and
MOFIA LTD.
Mofia
hereinafter referred to as the  or 
Lundin Shareholders
Class B Shareholders
OF THE SECOND PART
 
1
 
 
 
The Shareholders agree as follows:
1.           
Definitions and General Provisions
 
1.1           .  In this Agreement, including its annexes, the following capitalized terms will have the respective meanings ascribed thereto:
Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
after the date of the Formation Agreement and both before and after the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production including, without limitation, expenses paid for or incurred in connection with any program of surface or underground prospecting, geological, geophysical and geochemical surveying, drilling, raising and other underground work, assaying and metallurgical testing, environmental studies, preparing and completing the Feasibility Study and any additional or updated feasibility studies required in connection with any upgrading or increase in production capacity from the Property; the fees, wages, salaries, traveling expenses and benefits in kind (whether or not required by law) of all persons engaged in work with respect to such Exploration, including the food, lodging and other reasonable needs of such persons, and including any amounts that are considered to be capital expenditures within the meaning of the International Financial Reporting Standards, that have been incurred by or on behalf of T.F.M. prior to the Election Date.
 
 
(i)           A description of that part of the Property which will be placed into production.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(viii)       All necessary environmental impact studies and the costs thereof.
 
 
 
5
including those with respect to funding of costs and repatriation of capital and profits.
 
 
 
(xiii)         Projected cash flows and an economic forecast for the life of the mine.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2           .  All references in this Agreement to any currency, unless otherwise specified, refer to the United States dollar.
Currencies
 
1.3           .  In this Agreement, all references to the masculine gender include the feminine gender and vice-versa and all references to the singular include the plural and vice-versa.
Gender and Plural
 
1.4           .  The following schedules will be deemed to be a part of this Agreement and are attached hereto and are incorporated herein by reference:
Schedules
 
8
Schedule A                                Description of the Property
Schedule B                                Form of amended and restated By-Laws of T.F.M.
 
If any Schedule is inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement will prevail.
 
1.5           .  This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo supplemented by the principles of international commercial law.
Laws
 
1.6           .  When calculating the period of time within which or following which any act is to be done or step taken pursuant to this Agreement, the date which is the reference date in calculating such period will be excluded and the last day of such period will be included.  If the last day is not a Business Day, the period in question will end on the next following Business Day.
Periods of Time
 
1.7           .  In this Agreement, unless otherwise expressly stated:
General Interpretation
 
 
 
 
 
1.8           .  Nothing contained in this Agreement will be deemed to constitute any Shareholder the partner of the other nor, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, to constitute any Shareholder the agent or legal representative of any other Shareholder nor to create any fiduciary relationship between or among any Shareholders.  It is not the intention of the Shareholders to create, nor will this Agreement be construed to create, any mining, commercial or other partnership.  No Shareholder will have any authority to assume any obligation or responsibility on behalf of any of the other Shareholders except as otherwise expressly provided herein.  The rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the Shareholders will be several and not joint or collective.  Each Shareholder will indemnify, defend and hold harmless each other Shareholder, its directors, officers, employees, agents and attorneys from and against any and all Claims arising out of any act or any assumption of liability by the indemnifying Shareholder or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents and attorneys done or undertaken or apparently done or undertaken on behalf of the indemnified Shareholder except
No Partnership
 
9
pursuant to the authority expressly granted herein or as otherwise agreed in writing among the Shareholders.
 
1.9           .  Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, each Shareholder will have the right independently to engage in and receive full benefits from other business activities whether or not competitive with the Operations without consulting the other Shareholders.
Other Business Opportunities
 
1.10           .  There are no implied covenants contained in this Agreement other than those of good faith and fair dealing.
Implied Covenants
 
1.11           .
Accounts and Financial Statements
 
(a)           The accounts and financial statements of T.F.M. will be kept and established according to the Congolese General Accounting Plan.  They will also have to take into account, and comply with, the rules and procedures generally accepted in the international mining industry.
 
(b)           The accounts will be kept, and the financial statements of T.F.M. established, in U.S. dollars, and converted into Congolese Francs at the closure of the accounts period for purposes of publication, registration or for the purpose of making declarations in the Democratic Republic of Congo, by using the official rate in force on the last Business Day of the concerned Fiscal Year.
 
2.            
Object
 
2.1           
Object
 
(a)           This Agreement has as its object the redefinition of certain terms and conditions of the Exploration, Development and Mining undertaken on the Property, and the modification of the respective rights and obligations of the Parties as shareholders of T.F.M. as set forth in the Formation Agreement.
 
(b)           T.F.M. shall effect a restructuring of its share capital into 200 Shares and a change of class of the Shares where appropriate, and Lundin Holdings and Gcamines shall redistribute the Shares or causes the redistribution of the Shares presently held by the present shareholders of T.F.M., in such manner as shall result in the following Shareholders and respective holdings of the Shares:
 
Lundin Holdings - --                                                                              160 Class B Shares;
Tembo--                                                                           1 Class B Share;
 
 
    
Faru    --                              1 Class B Share;
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
Mboko                                                       - --                              1 Class B Share;
   
Chui                                                           - --                              1 Class B Share;
 
   
10
Mofia --                                                                                                  1 Class B Share; and
Gcamines - --                                35 Class A Shares representing 17.5% non-dilutable of the share capital.
 
Except with respect to any obligation to make Advances and with respect to nomination of the members of the Board, there shall be no differences in the rights, privileges or obligations attaching to the Class A Shares and the Class B Shares.  When transferred, Class A Shares and Class B Shares shall retain their respective classifications.
All provisions of this Agreement and the By-Laws of T.F.M. regarding restrictions on the transfer of Shares, to the extent otherwise applicable, are hereby waived for purposes of the transfers required to achieve the foregoing shareholdings.
 
3.           
Initial Arrangements
 
 
This Agreement hereby amends  and restates in its entirety the Formation Agreement.
 
3.2           .
Undertaking to Pay the Transfer Bonus
 
The Parties agree that Lundin Holdings shall complete payment of the Transfer Bonus to Gcamines in accordance with the terms set forth hereafter.  For avoidance of doubt:
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
 
           
 
  
1
If the signed Amended and Restated Mining Convention, the T.F.M. Shareholders Agreement and the amended By-Laws of T.F.M. do not enter into force by the end of September 2005 (including approval by Presidential Ordinance or Decree where appropriate), the two payments of sub paragraphs (i) and (ii) will amount to US$10 million each instead of, respectively, US$15 and US$5 million.
 
11
resolved, that all land titles are registered to the extent required to meet the requirements of this Agreement and the Amended and Restated Mining Convention, and that all mining rights required under applicable law have been duly issued, validated, conformed or renewed where applicable, so as to enable T.F.M. to undertake the Project) and approval of the final Feasibility Study by the Board of Directors.  The payment will be made pursuant to below, and the foregoing dates will be deemed to be the date upon which T.F.M. notifies Gcamines and Lundin Holdings of the satisfaction of such events pursuant to the terms and conditions of .
(y)
Section 3.2(c)
Article 17.1
 
 
 
 
 
3.3           .
Transfer of Property; Delivery of Data; and Maintenance of Rights and Titles on the Property
 
Gcamines confirms and the Class B Shareholders recognize that, in consideration of Lundin Holdings assumption of the obligation to pay the Transfer Bonus, Gcamines has transferred to T.F.M. all Rights and Titles on the Property.  Gcamines also confirms that it has delivered to T.F.M. all data, information, records and reports relating to the Property in the possession or under the control and direction of Gcamines (the ).
Data
 
3.4           .  Upon execution of this Agreement, the Shareholders shall enter into an agreement with the State amending and restating the existing Mining Convention and thereafter shall convene an extraordinary shareholder meeting in order to modify the By-Laws and conform them to the form attached hereto as in substitution of the then-existing by-laws of T.F.M.
By-Laws
Schedule B
 
3.5           Within three months after the entry into force of the By-Laws, the share capital will be increased by the amount of fifteen million US Dollars ($15,000,000) by contribution in kind of a receivable of that amount by Lundin Holdings Ltd., that will be deducted from the Advances.  As a result of such increase in share capital, the share capital of T.F.M. will amount to fifteen million fifty thousand US Dollars ($15,050,000), of which Gecamines be attributed a 17.5% nondilutable share.
Share Capital Increase of T.F.M.  
 
12
4.           
Feasibility Study Arrangements and Advances
 
4.1           .
Funding
 
(a)           As of the date of this Agreement, the Shareholders and T.F.M. acknowledge that Lundin Holdings or its Affiliates have made Advances, including to finance the Feasibility Study and to maintain the site.
 
(b)           Class B Shareholders will continue to make Advances, or cause funds to be advanced by third parties on normal commercial terms, to T.F.M. to enable T.F.M. to meet Exploration Expenditures with a view to identifying deposits, to meet all other Expenditures required to complete the Feasibility Study, and to otherwise fund Operations.
 
(c)           All Advances will bear interest at an annual rate equal to Prime Rate plus 2% calculated half-yearly in arrears.  Such interest shall accrue on all and any Advances made to T.F.M., , not only the Advances made in connection with the Feasibility Study but also all Advances whatsoever made to T.F.M. within the framework of this Agreement.
i.e.
 
(d)           For greater certainty and without limitation, it is understood and agreed that Class B Shareholders shall have responsibility for making Advances in proportion to their respective holdings of Class B Shares at the time such Advances are required to be made.  No Class A Shareholder shall have any responsibility for providing Advances unless and until it acquires Class B Share(s).
 
4.2           .
The Project
It is the intent of the Parties that T.F.M. develop the Project as agreed with the State and Gcamines.  Initially, the Project will initially be designed to produce at least 40,000 tonnes of copper with associated cobalt per year (the ).  The activities required to develop the Revised Project and subsequent Development of the Property shall be conducted in phases as summarized below
Revised Project
:
(a)           
P
hase 1 - --  Finalization of Primary Documentation
Phase 1 involves finalization, approval and signature by all of the Parties, and authorization, as the case may be by ministerial arrte or letter and presidential decrees of this Agreement, the Amended and Restated Mining Convention and the By-Laws.
(b)           
Phase 2 -- 
   
Final Feasibility Study
The Feasibility Study based on the Revised Project will be prepared to normal industry standards, based on current costs and infrastructure conditions.  Phase 2 will also include putting in place the re-establishment of SNEL power, SNCC rail, international sulfur supply and other transport contracts that were substantially in place between T.F.M. and third parties prior to 1999.  Basic design level engineering will be conducted and detailed logistic planning for the Revised Project plant will be performed such that immediately upon Board approval, the
 
13
construction phase of the Revised Project will commence.  Phase 2 is expected to take approximately 13 months following completion of Phase 1.
Upon the decision of the Class B Shareholders to commence construction of the Revised Project, site preparation and construction of the Revised Project plant will commence and is expected to take approximately 26 months. Copper production could come on stream in less than 22 months, with cobalt production to follow shortly thereafter.  Such decision of the Class B Shareholders shall be notified to the State and Gcamines in accordance with .
Section 17.1
Within 90 days following the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production, a feasibility study will be started for an expansion of the Revised Project mine and processing facilities.  Subject to feasibility determinations, the actual size of this first expansion will be based on exploration or research results, expansion project economics, the strength of copper and cobalt metal markets, country conditions and financing factors.
Timing, design and construction of the first major expansion to the Revised Project facilities will be based on the expansion feasibility study produced in Phase 4.
It is the intent of the Parties to develop the Property to its fullest extent subject to normal feasibility determinations, and in a similar manner that shareholders of Lundin Holdings have developed other major operations around the world.  Decisions on all expansions will be made taking into account the total resource potential, specific expansion economics, metals market fundamentals, and financing considerations.  Any subsequent plant expansion will also take cobalt market supply and demand into consideration in addition to copper production strategies.  The Parties mutually recognize the desire to reach a production level of 130,000 tonnes per year of copper with associated cobalt, subject to feasibility study considerations, at the end of the fifth year following the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production.  Similarly, the Parties mutually recognize the desire to reach a production level of 400,000 tonnes per year of copper with associated cobalt in the eleventh year following the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production.
 
4.3           . Lundin Holdings will assume primary responsibility for completion of the Feasibility Study on behalf of T.F.M. Gcamines will be entitled to appoint, in agreement with the Class B Shareholders, five representatives to take part in the preparation of the Feasibility Study (without having any decision making power with respect thereto).  The remuneration of such representatives will be included in the costs of the Feasibility Study and will form part of the Exploration Expenditures.  Furthermore, the Class B Shareholders will consult with the management committee of Gcamines at the beginning and
Collaboration in the Completion of the Feasibility Study
 
14
at least quarterly during the completion of the Feasibility Study as design criteria and cost estimates are being assessed, and may request Gcamines to provide other specific services at a price to be agreed upon, subject to the availability of the services requested from Gcamines, and the cost of such services shall be included as Exploration Expenditures.
 
4.4           . Lundin Holdings will deliver the final Feasibility Study to the Board and to Gcamines at least 10 days prior to the Board meeting at which T.F.M. will determine whether to go forward with Phase 3.
Delivery of the Feasibility Study
 
5.            
Investment Financing
 
5.1           .
Investment Financing
 
(a)           Lundin Holdings will exercise commercially reasonable efforts to arrange, in the name of and for the account of T.F.M., the necessary financing for the investments to fund Operations contemplated on the basis of the Feasibility Study.  This financing will take place by means of Advances made by the Class B Shareholders and/or by means of loans entered into by T.F.M. with third parties.  Pending completion of such arrangements, the Class B Shareholders shall fund investments to undertake Operations contemplated on the basis of the Feasibility Study by way of Advances.
 
(b)           Gcamines, as a Class A Shareholder, will have no responsibility with regard to the obtaining of the financing.  It will however be informed of the modalities thereof and may give advice thereon, if need be. It may, in addition, be required, as a Shareholder, to cooperate in guaranteeing the financing, pursuant to .
Article 5.2
 
5.2           . Gcamines is informed that Lundin Holdings or T.F.M. is intending to secure partial financing for the Project from international agencies and banks and Lundin Holdings confirms its ability to do so.  Gcamines agrees to co-operate fully with Lundin Holdings and T.F.M. in facilitating the obtaining of such financing, including signing any such documents and giving any such assurances as may reasonably be required to conclude such financing; , , this is without financial commitment on the part of Gcamines.
Cooperation in Financing
provided
however
 
6.           
Duration of Agreement and Remedies
 
6.1           .  Unless terminated in accordance with any of the provisions of this , this Agreement will continue in full force until:
Term
Article 6
 
(a)           the Property is no longer exploitable; or
 
 
6.2           .  Lundin Holdings may terminate this Agreement on 30 calendar days prior written notice to Gcamines, the other Shareholders and T.F.M.  In such event, and to give full force and effect to such termination, the Class B Shareholders will transfer their Shares to Gcamines for nil consideration, and will cause their nominees to resign as President, Vice-President, Directors and Managing Director and Lundin Holdings will cause
Early Termination by Lundin Holdings
 
15
T.F.M. to terminate the Advisor Agreement.  In addition, any and all Advances to such date due and owing to Lundin Holdings and/or its Affiliates by T.F.M. will be deemed to have been acquired by T.F.M., the debt of T.F.M. towards Lundin Holdings and/or its Affiliates will be cancelled and the Feasibility Study (in its then current state) will remain the property of T.F.M.  Lundin Holdings will have no obligation from the date of giving such notice to make Advances to fund any Expenditures, to make any capital contributions, and/or to pay to Gcamines any of the Transfer Bonus payments, and Lundin Holdings will not be liable to any Person for damages.  Any Transfer Bonus amounts already paid by Lundin Holdings to Gcamines will remain finally acquired by the latter.
 
6.3           .  In the event a breach of any material provision of this Agreement by the Class B Shareholders continues for a period of 30 days following receipt by the Class B Shareholders from Gcamines of notice of such breach, Gcamines may, pursuant to the resolution of dispute provision in , ask for the rescission of this Agreement and/or claim compensation for damages; , , that if the breach is not of such a nature as to be curable within 30 days, then Gcamines shall not be entitled to take such action if a cure is initiated by the Lundin Shareholders within such period of 30 days, and thereafter the Class B Shareholders diligently pursue such cure and such cure is effected within a reasonable time.  The Parties shall consider, without limitation, and as material provisions.
Early Termination by Gcamines
Article 16
provided
however
Articles 3, 4, 5
7
 
6.4           .
Liquidation
 
If the Shareholders mutually agree to the winding up or liquidation of T.F.M., the liquidation provisions of the By-Laws of T.F.M. will be applicable in accordance with the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
 
6.5           .  In the event of a breach of any material provision of this Agreement by Gcamines or of the Amended and Restated Mining Convention by Gcamines or by the State (including all covenants, representations and warranties), Lundin Holdings may suspend the performance of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement, including for greater certainty and without limitation, the obligation to deliver the Feasibility Study, to make any capital contributions, to make any of the Transfer Bonus payments, to make Advances and to assist with securing financing, until such breach is remedied.  In this case, any time limits agreed upon for the performance of these obligations will be extended by a period equal to that of the breach.  In the event a breach of any material provision by Gcamines or the State, as referred to above, continues for a period of 30 days following receipt by Gcamines from Lundin Holdings of notice of such breach, Lundin Holdings may, pursuant to the resolution of dispute provision in , ask for the rescission of this Agreement and/or claim compensation for damages; , , that if the breach is not of such a nature as to be curable within 30 days, then Lundin Holdings shall not be entitled to take such action if a cure is initiated by Gcamines or the State within such period of 30 days, and thereafter Gcamines or the State, diligently pursues such cure and such cure is effected within a reasonable time.  The Parties shall consider, without limitation, and as material provisions.
Breach by Gcamines or the State
Article 16
provided
however
Articles 3, 4, 5
7
 
16
7.            
Covenants, Representations and Warranties
 
7.1           .  Each of the Lundin Shareholders and Gcamines hereby covenants, represents and warrants to the other Shareholders and to T.F.M. that:
Covenants, Representations and Warranties of the Lundin Shareholders and Gcamines
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  i.  The Class B Shareholders hereby covenant, represent and warrant to Gcamines and T.F.M. as follows:
Add
tional Covenants, Representations and Warranties of Lundin
 
 
 
 
7.3  .  Gcamines hereby covenants, represents and warrants to the Class B Shareholders and T.F.M.:
Additional Covenants, Representations and Warranties of Gcamines
 
(a) .
Rightholder
 
Subject only to , prior to the transfer of the Property to T.F.M.
Section 7.5
 
(i) Gcamines was the sole holder of all and any rights, titles and interest in and to the Property;
 
17
(ii) Gcamines had the right to transfer its interest in the Property to T.F.M., free and clear of any and all Encumbrances;
 
(iii) Gcamines held any and all authorizations necessary to proceed with Operations on the Property including without limitation all surface rights with respect to the Property and access, under conditions to be agreed upon with the providers of the services in question, to all infrastructures (water, electricity, rail, roads, airport and so forth) necessary for Operations;
 
(iv) There were no matters that affected the rights, title and interest of Gcamines in the Property, or that could materially impair the ability of T.F.M. to carry on Operations.
 
Gcamines shall continue to insure that T.F.M. shall have completely free and unencumbered title and quiet enjoyment of the Property.  In the event any third party claims or proves any right, title or interest in or to the Property claimed to have existed prior to entry into force of the Formation Agreement, Gcamines undertakes, at its cost, to immediately do all such acts and things necessary to completely clear the Property of such third party right, title or interest, or claim thereto, and shall at all times indemnify T.F.M. and the other Shareholders and hold them harmless from any Claims, damages, costs or liabilities in connection therewith.
 
(b)           
Third Party Rights
 
Prior to the transfer of the Property to T.F.M., no Person other than Gcamines had any right or title to the Property and no Person is entitled to any royalty or other payment whatsoever in the nature of rent or royalty on any minerals, metals or concentrates or any other Products whatsoever deriving from the Property other than as provided in this Agreement.
 
(c)           
Validity of Rights and Titles over the Property
 
Except as specified in , as of the effective date of the Formation Agreement all of the rights and titles relating to the Property were validly recorded in accordance with the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  The prospecting work, processes and other operations carried on or conducted by or on behalf of Gcamines in respect of the Property have been carried on or conducted in a sound and workmanlike manner and in compliance with sound geological and geophysical Exploration and Mining, engineering and metallurgical practices.  All such work and Operations are in compliance with all laws, statutes, decrees, ordinances, permits, rules, regulations, judgments, and orders or decisions rendered by any ministry, department or administrative entity, judiciary or any other judicial body having competent jurisdiction or any regulatory agency.  In respect of the matters specified in , and to the extent it may be determined at any time in the future to be otherwise necessary, Gcamines shall take any remedial measures and otherwise assist T.F.M. in taking required action, or in obtaining any waivers, to ensure compliance with such requirements.
Article 7.5
Article 7.5
 
(d)           
Work Orders
 
As of the date of the effective date of the Formation Agreement, there were no outstanding work orders or actions required or reasonably anticipated to be required to be taken in respect of the
 
18
rehabilitation or restoration of the Property or relating to environmental matters in respect of the Property or any Operations thereon.
 
 
All taxes, contributions, duties, fees and assessments imposed, levied or charged upon or against the Property, as at the date of entry into force of the effective date of the Formation Agreement, were paid in full and the Property is in good standing in accordance with the laws of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
 
(f)           
Actions
 
Except as specified in , there are no outstanding or threatened actions or suits which, if successful, would or could affect the Property, the Agreement with the Banque Centrale du Congo, this Agreement, the Formation Agreement, or the Amended and Restated Mining Convention.
Section 7.5
 
(g)           
Contractual and Quasi-Contractual Obligations
 
Gcamines is not in default under any contractual or quasi-contractual obligations whatsoever towards third parties relating to the Property, nor will the execution or performance of this Agreement constitute such a default.
 
(h)           
Rights and Titles held by T.F.M.
 
As of the date of the Formation Agreement, T.F.M. had quiet enjoyment of the Property and all Rights and Titles on the Property.  Gcamines acknowledges that, as of the date of the transfer of the Property from Gcamines to T.F.M., all Rights and Titles on the Property are warranted by Gcamines to be, valid and existing and in good standing and do not contain, and are warranted by Gcamines not to contain, any unusual burdensome provision, condition or limitation.
held
 
(i)           
Material Information
 
Gcamines has made available to T.F.M. and to the Category B Shareholders all material information in its possession or control relating to the Property.
 
(j)           
Law and Judgments
 
The signature, delivery and performance of this Agreement does not, and will not in the future, violate any legal rule whatsoever, nor any judicial or similar decisions whatsoever.
 
 (k)           
Authorization for the Agreement for the Formation of T.F.M.
 
The Portfolio Minister had the authority to authorize, in the name of the State, the signature by Gcamines of this Agreement, and T.F.M. has been duly constituted in accordance therewith.
 
19
 
(l)           .
Environmental Matters
 
Gcamines warrants that, as of the date of the transfer of the Property from Gcamines to T.F.M., no contaminant has been released, spilled, leaked, discharged, disposed of, or pumped on the Property contrary to any applicable environmental law; that no oral or written notification of the release of a contaminant has been filed in connection with the Property which would or could subject T.F.M. to corrective or responsive action or any other liability under any applicable environmental laws; that no part of the Property has been located within an environmentally sensitive area or dump regulated areas; that there have been no environmental charges, privileges or Encumbrances resulting from substances poured, emitted, emptied, injected, leached, dumped or allowed to escape at, on or under or relating to the Property and no actions have been taken or are in process or pending which could subject the Property to such environmental liens; and that neither of them knows of any facts or circumstances related to environmental matters with respect to the Property that could lead to any environmental obligations or responsibilities.
 
7.4           .  The correctness and performance of each covenant, representation and warranty is a condition upon which each Party is entering into this Agreement.  Each of such covenants, representations and warranties may be waived in whole or in part solely by the Party in whose favor the covenant, representation and warranty is made and all such covenants, representations and warranties will survive the execution, delivery and termination of this Agreement as contemplated herein, as long as T.F.M. continues to exist.  Each Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other Parties from and against all Claims arising out of any breach of any covenant, representation or warranty whatsoever contained in this Agreement.
Survival of Covenants, Representations and Warranties
 
7.5           
Trabeka Dispute
 
The company Travers Bton au Katanga S.P.R.L., abbreviated TRABEKA has secured judgments against Gcamines and T.F.M. with respect to certain claimed interests in the Buildings and Fixtures.  Gcamines shall take all appropriate steps to satisfy such judgments or otherwise resolve such Claims, without cost to T.F.M., and shall indemnify T.F.M. and the non-Gcamines Shareholders and hold them harmless from any Claims, damages, costs or liabilities of any nature in connection with such judgment and claims.
 
 
8.           
[Intentionally Left Blank]
 
9.            
Implementation of Provisions Concerning Shareholders
 
9.1           .  Each Shareholder will vote or cause to be voted its Shares in such a way as to fully implement the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Amended and Restated Mining Convention.
Effect of Agreement
 
9.2           .  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the By-Laws, the provisions of this Agreement will govern to the extent permitted by law.  Each Shareholder agrees to vote or to cause to be voted the Shares owned by it as necessary so as to
Conflict
 
20
 
cause the By-Laws to be amended to resolve any such conflict in favor of the provisions of this Agreement.
 
9.3           .  The Shareholders shall meet to amend and restate the By-Laws pursuant to Article 3.4 of this Agreement and shall also expressly ratify this Agreement.  By this Agreement, the Shareholders guarantee that T.F.M. will ratify this Agreement.
Ratification of this Agreement
 
9.4           .  Any share certificate issued or to be issued by T.F.M. for Shares will be endorsed on its face with the following statement:
Endorsement upon Share Certificates
 
The right of the shareholders of T.F.M. to sell, encumber, alienate or realize their shares are restricted by the terms of the Shareholders Agreement among the shareholders of T.F.M.
9.5           .  Any Shareholder transferring Shares to a non-Shareholder shall require as a condition of such transfer that the transferee who by virtue of such transfer becomes a shareholder of T.F.M. will be bound by the terms of this Agreement and will signify assent to the terms hereof by signing this Agreement or by delivering to the Parties an instrument in writing declaring such Persons intention to be bound by the terms hereof and setting out an address where notices under this Agreement can be made to such Person.  Each of the Parties covenants and agrees that whenever a transferee has so assented to the terms of this Agreement, each of them remaining as a Shareholderwill be bound to each and every such transferee and, in like manner, each and every such transferee will be bound to each Party remaining as a Shareholder.
Subsequent Shareholders Bound
 
 
9.6           .  The provisions of this Agreement relating to Shares will apply to any shares or securities into which Shares may be converted, changed, re-classified, re-divided, re-designated, redeemed, subdivided or consolidated, to any shares or securities whatsoever that are received by the Shareholders as a stock dividend or distribution payable in shares or securities of T.F.M. and to any shares or securities of T.F.M. or of any successor or continuing company to T.F.M. that may be received by the Shareholders on a reorganization, amalgamation, consolidation or merger, statutory or otherwise.
Shares
mutatis mutandis
 
10.            
Organization
 
10.1           .  The Shareholders agree that management and control of T.F.M. will be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement as well as to the By-Laws of T.F.M.
Management and Control
 
10.2           
Board
 
 
21
appointed to the Board in accordance with the terms of this and any vacancies on the Board are filled by the appointment of a nominee of the Shareholders whose nominee formerly occupied the vacant position.  The Class A Shareholders and the Class B Shareholders may at any time request the dismissal of a Director whom such Shareholders caused to be appointed.  In the case of vacancy of a Director following his resignation, dismissal or otherwise, the Shareholders who nominated such Director will present a candidate for this mandate.
Article 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
10.3           .
Management Powers
 
(a)           In addition to what is provided for in the By-Laws of T.F.M., the Shareholders agree that the management and control of T.F.M. will also be governed by the applicable provisions of this Agreement which they undertake to fully and at all times comply with, as if these provisions were an integral part of the By-Laws of T.F.M.
 
22
(b)           The Class B Shareholders will present a candidate for the function of Managing Director, who will be in charge of day-to-day management, at the head of the list of candidates referred to in Article 18.b) of the By-Laws. The Class A Shareholders undertake that the Directors representing them on the T.F.M. Board will vote for the candidate appearing at the head of this list.
 
10.4           .  All transactions between T.F.M. and any Shareholder or Affiliate of the same must be approved in advance by the general meeting of the Shareholders deciding under the same conditions as for an amendment to the By-Laws.
Non-Arms Length Transactions
 
11.             
Distribution of Profits and Audits
 
11.1           .
Distribution of Profits
 
(a)           The Shareholders expressly confirm, and T.F.M. acknowledges, that it is the intention of the Shareholders that T.F.M. will repay all Advances made before the Date of Commercial Production together with interest thereon as set out herein prior to making any other advances or distributions whatsoever to Shareholders, including without limitation distribution of profits pursuant to .  Following the repayment of all Advances made before the Date of Commercial Production together with the interest thereon, and until the Pay-Back Date, funds that are available for distribution from T.F.M. will be applied 75% to repayment of Advances made after the Date of Commercial Production, together with the interest thereon, and 25% as distributions to the Shareholders pro rata in accordance with their respective shareholdings of T.F.M.
Article 11.1(b)
 
(b)           From the PayBack Date and at the end of each Fiscal Year of T.F.M., and subject to obligations pursuant to loans, all profits of T.F.M. will be distributed to the Shareholders pro rata in accordance with their respective shareholdings of T.F.M. in a manner to be determined by the Board, provided that T.F.M. will retain a reserve for adequate working capital and will be entitled to establish a sinking-fund for the purpose of providing funds for future expansion and Capital Expenditures, for environmental protection and reclamation and contingencies.  Subject to the obligations resulting from the loans concluded by T.F.M., at least 25% of the profits of each Fiscal Year will be distributed to the Shareholders.
 
11.2           .
Advances Against Distributions of Profits
 
(a)           Subject to , from the Pay-Back Date each Shareholder will receive quarterly, as an advance against all such annual distributions of profits, an amount equal to its pro rata share of the estimated profits (net of an adequate reserve for loan payments, working capital and sinking-fund) relating to the last applicable quarter of T.F.M.  Such advances, as the distributions, will be paid in U.S. dollars and credited to the account in the Democratic Republic of Congo, or abroad, as indicated by each Shareholder.  Such quarterly advances will be offset annually against the dividend due and owing to each Shareholder of T.F.M. at the end of the Fiscal Year.  If the quarterly advances paid to the Shareholders exceed the actual amount of the annual dividends to which they are entitled, the amount of the overpayment to each Shareholder of T.F.M. will be deemed to be a loan to each Shareholder of T.F.M., which will be forthwith due and payable as at the date of determination of the excess payment without interest.
Article 11.1
 
23
(b)           The Shareholders general meeting may unanimously decide to distribute the dividends wholly or partly in kind (in the form of Products) in accordance with the methods also decided unanimously by such meeting.
 
11.3             The Board will select an independent firm of auditors of international reputation which will audit the accounts of T.F.M. and such appointment will be in accordance with the By-Laws of T.F.M.  The audit, along with all accounting required by virtue of the present Agreement, will be undertaken in accordance with the Congolese general accounting plan, to the extent required by Congolese law, and in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards.
Audits of T.F.M.
 
12.             
The Managing Director
 
12.1           .  The Board will elect as Managing Director the candidate for this function presented by the Class B Shareholders.  The Board will determine the remuneration of the Managing Director, taking into account remuneration normally paid in the international mining sector for equivalent functions.
Appointment and Remuneration of Managing Director
 
12.2           .  Subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement and under the control and direction of the Board, the Managing Director will manage, direct and control the Operations in accordance with the adopted Programs and Budgets.
Powers and Duties of Managing Director
 
12.3           .
Information on Operations
 
(a)           The Managing Director will keep the Board advised of all Operations and will therefore submit to the Board in writing:
 
 
(ii)           Periodic summaries of data acquired;
 
(iii)          Copies of reports concerning Operations;
 
 
 
(b)           At all reasonable times the Managing Director will provide the Board and each Shareholder access to and the right to inspect and copy at their own sole cost and expense all maps, drill logs, core tests, reports, surveys, assays, analyses, production reports, operations, technical, accounting and financial records and other information acquired in Operations.
 
12.4           . The Managing Director shall appoint all members of the management team and will have the power and authority to hire and fire such employees.  Two
Management Team
 
24
members of the management team shall be seconded from candidates employed and recommended by the Class A Shareholder.  In any event, however, the Managing Director shall have the right to refuse the secondment of the candidate recommended by Gcamines or require the Class A Shareholder to end the secondment in question with 30 calendar days advance written notice.  In such cases, the Class A Shareholder will submit another recommendation to replace such candidate.  The Class A Shareholder shall hold T.F.M. and the Managing Director harmless and shall indemnify them against any Claim brought against them by any rejected candidate or any employee of Gcamines whose secondment is terminated.
(x)
(y)
 
12.5           . Subject to the limitations of applicable law, T.F.M. will indemnify each Director or officer or former Director or officer and his heirs and legal representatives against all Claims and expenses, reasonably incurred by him, in respect of any civil, criminal or administrative action or proceeding to which he is made a party by reason of being or having been a Director or officer or having undertaken any liability on behalf of T.F.M. if:
Indemnity
 
 
 
13.            
Advisor Agreement and Service Contracts
 
13.1           .   Lundin Holdings and T.F.M. confirm, and Gcamines acknowledges, that the Advisor Agreement entered by Lundin Holdings and T.F.M. on November 30, 1996, was duly entered in accordance with the requirements of article 14 of the Formation Agreement, is in full force and effect as of the Effective Date, and shall remain in effect in accordance with and subject to its terms and conditions.
Confirmation of Advisor Agreement
 
13.2           .  Lundin Holdings recognizes that Gcamines has considerable experience with the State, and this experience, along with Gcamines technical mining and processing expertise, should be relied on to help optimize the operation of the Project.  Therefore, in addition to the role that Gcamines will play in the decision-making process as a shareholder of, and on the Board of T.F.M., Lundin Holdings may also ask employees of  Gcamines to participate as seconded employees working full-time within T.F.M. on special purpose teams or on technically focused task forces.  Gcamines may also seek to participate in the Project by bidding on, and if selected, by providing services to T.F.M. through contract service agreements that are bid out to qualified third parties.  Following the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production, Lundin Holdings and Gcamines agree that T.F.M. will retain Gcamines to provide a minimum of $60,000 worth of general consulting services monthly.  This consultancy fee will be reviewed annually as appropriate.
Further Gcamines Participation and Service Contracts
 
13.3           .  Fifteen years after the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production Lundin Holdings and Gcamines will enter into good faith negotiations to revise the Advisor Agreement with respect to changed circumstances.  
Renegotiation/Termination of Advisor Agreement
 
25
In any event, the Advisor Agreement will terminate no later than the termination of this Agreement.
 
14.            
Programs and Budgets
 
14.1           .  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Operations will be conducted and Expenditures will be incurred only pursuant to approved Programs and Budgets.
Operations Pursuant to Programs and Budgets
 
14.2           .  Proposed Programs and Budgets will be prepared by the Managing Director after consultation with the Shareholders for any period as considered reasonable by the Managing Director.  Each adopted Program and Budget, regardless of length, will be reviewed at least once a year at a meeting of the Board.  During the period encompassed by any Program and Budget and at least 3 months prior to its expiration, a proposed Program and Budget for the following period will be prepared by the Managing Director and submitted to the Board.
Presentation of Programs and Budgets
 
14.3           .  Within 15 days after submission of a proposed Program and Budget, the Board will approve or modify the proposed Program and Budget.
Review and Approval or Modification of Proposed Programs and Budgets
 
14.4           .  Within 15 days after the Board has approved a proposed Program and Budget, with or without modification, the Board will deliver written notice of such approved Program and Budget to each Shareholder together with a copy of the approved Program and Budget.
Notice of Approved Program and Budget to Shareholders
 
14.5           .  The Managing Director will seek approval of the Board in advance of any material departure from an adopted Program or Budget.
Budget Overruns; Program Changes
 
15.            
Restrictions Upon Transfers
 
15.1           .  Except as set forth below, no transfer shall be permitted before the end of Phase 3 of the project as such is defined in .  Any transfer of Shares shall be in conformity with the By-Laws of T.F.M. and this Agreement and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall be authorized, without prejudice to the provisions of and any successions of interest resulting from a death, merger, a split, a liquidation or any other operation relevant to an operation of corporate law.
Rules Governing Transfers
Section 4.2
Sections 15.3
15.8,
 
15.2           .  A Shareholder may assign by way of guarantee, mortgage, pledge, charge or otherwise encumber all or any potion of its Shares only in favor of any bank, trust company, mortgage company, insurance company,  pension fund, or other lending or financial institution (including indirect lenders and loan participants) providing debt, equity, lease, and/or bond financing or financial services, or credit support or other credit enhancement for the Project.  The Parties shall execute such documents as may be reasonably requested by any such lender or financing entity to evidence and acknowledge consent to and the effectiveness of any such assignment by way of guarantee, mortgage,
Permitted Encumbrances
 
26
pledge, charge or other encumbrance; , , that  such documents shall provide that such assignment by way of guarantee, mortgage, pledge, charge or other encumbrance, and the interest of the lender or financing entity in the Shares, is subject to this Agreement and the rights of the other Shareholders under this Agreement including, without limitation, the provisions of .
provided
however
Article 15.4
 
15.3           .  A Shareholder may transfer all but not less than all of its Shares to an Affiliate without the consent of the other Shareholders if the Shareholder and the Affiliate covenant to the other Shareholders that:
Transfer to Affiliates
 
 
 
 
 
The Shareholder which transfers its Shares to an Affiliate will first of all inform the other Shareholder, providing due proof of the transferees status as Affiliate.
 
15.4           
Right of Preemption
 
 
 
 
 
27
 notice in writing to the Transferor, it being understood that the Other Shareholders may freely transfer among them their right of preemption.
   
 
 
 
15.5           .  If the transfer between the Transferor and the Offeror is not completed within 40 days after the refusal or deemed refusal (in case of partial acceptance) by the Other Shareholders of the offer contained in the Transferors Offer then the Transferor may sell all or any portion of its Shares to a third Person only if all of the requirements of this are again complied with, including the right of preemption provided for in this .
Failure to Sell to the Offeror
Article 15
Article 15
 
15.6           .  Any Shareholder may at any time by written notice to T.F.M. waive the right to be offered the Shares pursuant to this , either generally or for a specified period of time.
Waiver
Article 15
 
15.7           .  Unless other terms of sale are agreed to by the Shareholders, the terms and conditions of sale as between the Shareholders under this will be as follows:
Terms of Sale
Article 15
 
 
 
 
 
28
purchase price to the credit of the Transferor in any approved bank in the Democratic Republic of Congo, to execute and deliver for and on behalf of and in the name of the Transferor, such transfers, resignations and other documents as may be necessary or desirable in order to complete the transfer.
 
 
 
 
16.1         .  In the case of a dispute between the Parties resulting from or concerning this Agreement or related to a breach hereof, the Parties in question undertake, before beginning any arbitral or judicial procedure, and except in the case of urgency, to meet in an attempt to reach an amicable settlement.  To this effect, the president of the Parties in question (or their agents) will meet within 15 days of the date of a written invitation sent by registered post by the most diligent Party to the other Parties involved.  If this meeting does not take place within this time limit or if the dispute is not resolved by a written agreement signed by all the Parties involved within 15 days of the meeting, any Party involved may submit the dispute to arbitration or may take it to court in accordance with the following provisions of this .
Amicable Settlement
Article 16
 
16.2           
Arbitration
 
 
29
 
 
16.3           .  If one Party considers that a dispute between Parties is connected to a dispute between one or more Parties and the State under the Amended and Restated Mining Convention, it must first of all submit the question of such connection to arbitration pursuant to .  If the arbitration tribunal in an arbitration proceeding pursuant to confirms the connection, the latter must declare itself incompetent.  In this case, the most diligent Party may, in accordance with articles 25 and 26 of the Amended and Restated Mining Convention, jointly submit the two disputes which have been recognized as connected, to the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes, and Gcamines hereby submits itself to the jurisdiction of the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes for such purpose.  If the arbitration tribunal in an arbitration proceeding pursuant to judges that there is no connection, the two disputes will be treated separately in accordance with the respective procedures provided in with respect to the dispute under this Agreement, and articles 25 and 26 of the Amended and Restated Mining Convention with respect to the dispute thereunder.
Disputes with the State
Article 16.2
Article 16.2
Article 16.2
Article 16.2
 
16.4           .
Jurisdiction
 
(a)           Judgment on the arbitral award rendered may be entered in any court having jurisdiction or application may be made to such court for a judicial acceptance for the award and an order of enforcement, as the case may be.
 
(b)           All disputes, controversies or Claims arising out of or related to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, for which the arbitration tribunal referred to in or (and ) declares itself not competent (except if, with respect to the arbitration tribunal referred to in the latter has declared itself incompetent because of connection pursuant to , in which case the arbitration tribunal referred to in will be competent), will be of the sole competence of the courts of Geneva, Switzerland.
Article 16.2
Article 16.3
Article 6.6
Article 16.2
Article 16.3
Article 16.3
 
16.5           .  Gcamines hereby expressly waives any right of immunity of execution in respect of the resolution of disputes procedures contained in this .
Waiver of Immunity of Execution
Article 16
 
17.           
Notices
 
17.1.        .  All notices, requests, demands and other communications to be made by virtue of this Agreement, will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given, if telegraphed or mailed by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, or delivered in person at the addresses
Notices
 
30
indicated hereafter or to such other address as the party to be notified will have furnished to the other parties in writing.  All notices will be given:  (i) by personal delivery to the Party; or (ii) by electronic communication, with a confirmation sent by registered or certified mail return receipt requested; or (iii) by registered or certified mail return receipt requested.  All notices will be effective and will be deemed delivered:  (i) if by personal delivery on the date of delivery if delivered during normal business hours, and, if not, on the next Business Day following delivery; (ii) if by electronic communication on the next Business Day following receipt of the electronic communication, and (iii) if by mail, on the next Business Day after actual receipt, provided that in the event of mail strike, all notice will be given by personal delivery or by electronic communication as herein provided.
 
The addresses concerned are
 
 
31
                 E-mail:dvanhooymissen@tenkefungurume.net
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
        and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
 
   Phelps Dodge Corporation
   1 North Central Avenue
   Phoenix, Arizona 85004
   United States of America
   Attention: President, Phelps Dodge Corporation
   Fax No.:  +1.602.366.7321
   Tel. No.:  +1.602.366.8100
 
 
18.            
Force Majeure
 
18.1           .
Force Majeure
 
(a)           In case of Force Majeure (as such term is hereinafter defined) the Party materially affected or which could be materially affected by the Force Majeure (the ) shall give to the other Parties prompt written notice describing such event of Force Majeure.
Affected Party
 
(b)           As from the occurrence of an event of Force Majeure, the obligations of the Affected Party shall be suspended during the whole continuance of such event of Force Majeure and for an additional period, sufficient to permit the Affected Party, acting with all required diligence, to place itself in the same situation as before the occurrence of such event of Force Majeure.
 
(c)           All time periods and all dates subsequent to the date of occurrence of the event of Force Majeure shall be adjusted to take into account the extension and delay arising out of such event of Force Majeure.
 
(d)           The Affected Parties shall use all diligence reasonably possible to eliminate such event of Force Majeure as quickly as possible, but such requirement shall not entail the settlement of strikes or other industrial disputes against the judgment of the Affected Party.
 
(e)           For the purpose of this , the term Force Majeure () means any sudden or unforeseen or insurmountable event, outside the control of the Affected Party, excluding lack of funds, but including without limitation:  strikes, lockouts or other industrial disputes; acts of a public enemy, riots, acts of public violence, pillage, rebellion, revolt, revolution, civil war, coup detat or any event of a political character which materially affects or could materially affect the success of the Project; fire, storm, flood, explosion, government restriction, failure to obtain any approval required from public authorities including environmental protection agencies.
Article 18
Force Majeure
 
32
(f)           In case of Force Majeure, the Parties will consult with each other at least twice yearly as to how to limit the damage caused by the Force Majeure and to pursue the realization of the objectives of the Project.
 
19.            
Confidentiality
 
19.1           .  All data and information provided to or received by the Parties with respect to this Agreement, the other Parties and/or the Property, will be treated as confidential and will not be disclosed without the prior written consent of the other Parties (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) to any other Person whatsoever, except to Affiliates, or as required to effect a third party sale, as required to procure financing or as required by law or any regulatory authority whatsoever having jurisdiction.  Where disclosure is required by law or a regulatory authority having jurisdiction, a copy of the information required to be disclosed including without limitation any press release, will be provided to the other Parties within as reasonable a time limit as possible before such disclosure.  No Party will be liable to the other Parties in respect of any interpretation, opinion, conclusion or other non-contractual information included by the Party in any report or other document provided to the receiving Person whether included by negligence or otherwise.
Confidentiality
 
20.            
Miscellaneous
 
20.1           .  This Agreement may be amended or modified only by a written instrument executed by all of the Parties or by their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Amendments
 
20.2           .  This Agreement may not be assigned by any Party hereto without the consent of the other Parties, which may not be unreasonably withheld.  No assignment may occur before the completion of Phase 3.
Assignment
 
20.3           .  This Agreement will enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns, nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, being intended to confer upon any other Person any rights or remedies hereunder.
Enurement
 
20.4           .  The unlawfulness or invalidity of any provision of this Agreement or of any covenant herein contained on the part of any Party will not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of this Agreement or the covenants contained therein.
Severability
 
20.5           .  Failure by any Party hereto to insist in any one or more instances upon the strict performance of any one of the covenants contained herein will not be construed as a waiver of such covenant.  Any waiver by any Party to a provision of this Agreement will be valid only if expressly made in writing.
Waiver
 
20.6           .  This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the Parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersedes all prior agreements among the Parties relating to the same.
Entire Agreement
 
20.7           .  Each of the Parties undertakes that at any time, and in particular after the Effective Date, upon the request of any other Party, it will do, execute, acknowledge
Further Undertakings
 
33
and deliver all such further acts, documents and undertakings as may be reasonably required for the better performance of all the terms of this Agreement.
 
20.8           .  T.F.M. will perform its activities in accordance with environmental standards internationally recognized as good mining practice.
Environment
 
20.9           .  In the event of the creation, at the initiative of Gcamines, of a Congolese Cobalt Institute having as its purpose the study and the promotion of the international market for cobalt, T.F.M. will become one of the founding members of it.
Congolese Cobalt Institute
 
20.10         .  This Agreement is made in the English and in the French languages, both languages being equally valid, it being understood that in the event of a contradiction in meaning with respect to the interpretation of any provision herein, the actual intention of the parties will prevail as determined by the arbitration tribunal or in any other court of competent jurisdiction.
Language
 
21.             .
Effect on Force Majeure
 
21.1           .  Lundin Holdings and T.F.M. recognize that the circumstances as they exist on the date first above written in the Province of Katanga, Democratic Republic of Congo, as well as the renegotiated terms and conditions of this Agreement, permit (i) the resumption of activities and (ii) the termination of Force Majeure as was declared by Lundin Holdings and T.F.M. on 23 February 1999 in connection with the Revised Project as defined in Article 4.2.  Gcamines acknowledges the foregoing.
Effect on Force Majeure
 
22.            
Entry into Force
 
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of entry into force of the Amended and Restated Mining Convention pursuant to article 40 thereof.
 
 
 
 
34
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have duly executed this Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement as of the date first above written, in _ original copies, ___ in English and ___ in French.
8  
4
4
 
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
_________________________
/s/ Signed
LUNDIN HOLDINGS LTD.
__________________________
/s/ Signed
TEMBO LTD.
__________________________
/s/ Signed
FARU LTD.
__________________________
/s/ Signed
MBOKO LTD.
__________________________
/s/ Signed
CHUI LTD.
__________________________
/s/ Signed
MOFIA LTD.
__________________________
/s/ Signed
FOR ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:
TENKE FUNGURUME MINING S.A.R.L.
__________________________
/s/ Signed
 
35
 


