FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20081021173536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated October 21, 2008, announcing its third-quarter and nine-month 2008 results and supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its October 21, 2008, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
    
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
    
Vice President and Controller -
    
Financial Reporting
    
(authorized signatory and
    
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 21, 2008
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
1
PHOENIX, AZ, October 21, 2008  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported third-quarter 2008 net income applicable to common stock of $523 million, $1.31 per share, compared with $775 million, $1.87 per share, for the third quarter of 2007.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, FCX reported net income of $2.6 billion, $6.20 per share, compared with $2.4 billion, $6.58 per share, in the 2007 period.  The results for the 2007 nine-month period include the operations of Phelps Dodge beginning March 20, 2007.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our third-quarter results reflect strong operating performance during a period of weakening commodity prices and economic uncertainty.  We are financially strong and well positioned to continue our long range strategy of adding to our mineral reserves and increasing our production capacity.  We will be responsive to current market conditions by reducing costs and capital spending and curtailing high-cost operations if required.  We are positive about the underlying fundamentals of the copper market and the long-term prospects for our business.
 
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECENT EVENTS
 
Economic conditions have weakened dramatically in recent weeks and there is significant uncertainty about the near-term price outlook for FCXs principal products.  LME copper prices declined from $3.98 per pound at June 30, 2008, to $2.91 per pound at September 30, 2008, and further to $2.21 per pound at October 20, 2008.
 
While FCX views the long-term outlook for its business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy, FCX is responding to the sudden downturn and uncertain near-term outlook.  Operating plans are being revised to target reductions in costs, defer or eliminate capital projects, defer exploration expenditures and potentially curtail production at high-cost operations.
 
3
OPERATIONS
 
Consolidated copper sales of 1,016 million pounds in the third quarter of 2008 were slightly higher than the revised estimates projected as of September 9, 2008, when FCX announced that second-half 2008 results would be impacted by a small scale failure at the Grasberg open pit in Indonesia.  Remediation activities at Grasberg have been substantially completed and FCX regained access in October 2008 to the high-grade material previously restricted.  Third-quarter 2008 consolidated copper sales were seven percent higher than the year-ago period primarily because of higher ore grades at Grasberg.
 
Consolidated gold sales of 307 thousand ounces in third-quarter 2008 were higher than revised estimates of 250 thousand ounces projected as of September 9, 2008.  Consolidated gold sales in the third quarter of 2008 were higher than the year-ago period because of mining in a higher ore grade section of Grasberg.  Consolidated molybdenum sales of 19 million pounds in the third quarter of 2008 approximated previous estimates of 18 million pounds.
 
For the year 2008, FCX projects sales to approximate 4.0 billion pounds of copper, 1.2 million ounces of gold and 74 million pounds of molybdenum, including 1.17 billion pounds of copper, 395 thousand ounces of gold and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in fourth-quarter 2008.
 
Consolidated unit net cash costs were $1.29 per pound in the third quarter of 2008.  Cash costs increased significantly during the last twelve months, principally for energy and sulfuric acid.  Commodity-based input costs are expected to be lower than third-quarter 2008 levels as a result of the recent sharp declines in prices of energy, steel and sulfuric acid.  Assuming average prices of $2.15 per pound for copper, $800 per ounce for gold and $27 per pound for molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2008, and using recent prices for commodity-based input costs, unit net cash costs would average approximately $1.07 per pound for fourth-quarter 2008 and approximately $1.17 per pound for the year, compared with FCXs July 22, 2008, estimate of $1.10 per pound.  Projected unit net cash costs for 2008 are higher than the July 2008 estimate primarily because of the impact of lower volumes at Grasberg.
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
For the first nine months of 2008, approximately 50 percent of FCXs mined copper was sold in concentrate, 30 percent as rod (principally from North America operations) and 20 percent as cathodes.  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCXs concentrate sales contracts and some of its cathode sales contracts are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.  The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME prices.  The sales subject to final pricing are generally settled in a subsequent month or quarter.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded copper price for the period.
 
LME copper prices averaged $3.49 per pound during the third quarter of 2008, compared with FCXs recorded average price of $3.14 per pound.  The applicable forward copper price at the end of the quarter was $2.89 per pound.  Approximately half of FCXs consolidated copper sales during the third quarter were provisionally priced at the time of shipment and are subject to final pricing later in 2008 or early 2009.
 
At September 30, 2008, FCX had copper sales of 467 million pounds of copper (net of minority interests) priced at an average of $2.89 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change in the price realized from the September 30, 2008, price would have an approximate $15 million effect on FCXs 2008 net income.  The LME closing settlement price for copper on October 20, 2008, was $2.21 per pound.  Assuming that the October 17, 2008, quarter-to-date average pricing of $2.48 per pound and average forward prices of $2.18 per pound were applied to the September 30 provisionally priced sales, the weighted-average price for these sales would be approximately $2.23 per pound and would result in a reduction to fourth-quarter 2008 revenues of approximately $400 million and a reduction to fourth-quarter 2008 net income of approximately $200 million.  FCX estimates that each $0.05 change in the copper forward price from the October 17, 2008, price would impact fourth-quarter net income by $13 million.
 
At June 30, 2008, 369 million pounds of copper (net of minority interests) were provisionally priced at $3.88 per pound.  Adjustments to these prior period copper sales decreased consolidated revenues by $282 million ($127 million to net income or $0.28 per share), compared with a decrease of $54 million ($27 million to net income or $0.06 per share) in third-quarter 2007.  Additionally, adjustments to prior year copper sales in the first nine months of 2008 resulted in an increase in consolidated revenues of $268 million ($114 million to net income or $0.25 per share), compared with a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income or $0.05 per share) in the first nine months of 2007.
 
As part of FCXs accounting for its March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge, inventories and mill and leach stockpiles were recorded at fair values based on market prices and the outlook at the time for future prices.  Accounting rules require that inventories be recorded at the lower of cost or market values.  FCX recorded charges to operating income for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments as a result of the decline in copper prices and increases in input costs totaling $16 million ($11 million to net income or $0.02 per share) in third-quarter 2008 and $22 million ($14 million to net income or $0.03 per share) in the first nine months of 2008.  Copper prices have declined sharply since September 30, 2008, which may require additional charges to reduce inventory carrying values in future periods.  FCX will also be undertaking a review during fourth-quarter 2008 to assess asset carrying values and goodwill associated with the acquisition of Phelps Dodge.  Charges to net income may be required depending on commodity price levels prevailing at year-end.
 
5
  FCX operates seven open-pit copper mines in North America (Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita, Safford and Miami in Arizona and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico).  By-product molybdenum is primarily produced at Sierrita and Bagdad.  All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.  The North America copper mining operations have long-lived reserves with significant additional development potential.
North America
Copper
Min
es
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in North America totaled 361 million pounds in the third quarter of 2008, slightly lower than third-quarter 2007 sales because of the timing of shipments, partly offset by the commencement of production at the recently commissioned Safford mine.
 
For the year 2008, FCX expects sales from North America copper mines to approximate 1.4 billion pounds of copper, compared with 1.3 billion pounds of copper for year 2007, which includes combined FCX historical results and Phelps Dodge pre-acquisition results for the period January 1, 2007, through March 19, 2007.
 
  The following table summarizes unit net cash costs at the North America copper mines.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
 
North America unit net cash costs were higher in the 2008 periods as compared with the 2007 periods primarily because of increases in energy, maintenance, labor, sulfuric acid and other input costs,
 
6
and increases in mining rates and lower grades at Morenci, combined with higher unit costs at Safford as the mine ramps up to full production rates.
 
Assuming an average copper price of $2.15 per pound and an average molybdenum price of $27 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2008, achievement of current 2008 sales estimates and using recent prices for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that its average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North America copper mines would approximate $1.39 per pound of copper for fourth-quarter 2008 and $1.28 per pound for the year.  Unit net cash costs for 2008 would change by approximately $0.01 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
FCXs seven operating North America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors.  During third-quarter 2008, North Americas unit net cash costs ranged from a net credit of $0.73 per pound at one mine to $2.12 per pound at another operation.  Approximately ten percent of North Americas production had cash costs above $2.00 per pound in third-quarter 2008 and approximately 45 percent had cash costs between $1.90 per pound and $2.00 per pound.  FCX is undertaking a review of its operations, taking into account reduced copper prices and recent declines in commodity-based input costs, to determine whether certain operations should be curtailed.
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  These operations are consolidated in FCXs financial statements, with outside ownership reported as minority interests.
South America
Mines
.
 
FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper and molybdenum concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.
 
 
South America copper sales in the third quarter of 2008 were higher than in third-quarter 2007 primarily because of the timing of shipments at El Abra, and also reflected higher production from Candelaria and Ojos del Salado primarily resulting from improved milling rates.
 
For the year 2008, FCX expects South America sales of 1.5 billion pounds of copper and 110 thousand ounces of gold, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 114 thousand ounces of gold for the year 2007, which includes combined FCX historical results and Phelps Dodge pre-acquisition results for the period January 1, 2007, through March 19, 2007.  In addition, FCX expects to produce three million pounds of molybdenum at Cerro Verde for the year 2008, compared with one million pounds for the year 2007, which includes combined FCX historical results and Phelps Dodge pre-acquisition results for the period January 1, 2007, through March 19, 2007.
7
  The following table summarizes unit net cash costs at the South America copper mines.
 Unit Net Cash Costs.
   
 
 
 
 
South America unit net cash costs were higher in the 2008 periods compared with the 2007 periods primarily because of higher energy costs, higher contractor costs and higher mining rates at Candelaria.  These increases were partly offset by increased production and favorable by-product credits.
 
Assuming achievement of current 2008 sales estimates and using recent prices for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that its average unit net cash costs, including gold and molybdenum credits, for its South America mines would approximate $1.07 per pound of copper for fourth-quarter 2008 and approximately $1.15 per pound for the year.
 
During third-quarter 2008, unit net cash costs for FCXs South America copper mines ranged from $0.88 per pound to $1.83 per pound.  Approximately 25 percent of South Americas production had cash costs above $1.80 per pound in third-quarter 2008.  As a result of changing market conditions, FCX is reviewing its South America operations to determine if any changes to capital spending and operating plans are warranted.
  Through its 90.64 percent owned subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesia Mining.
 
Indonesia copper and gold sales in the third quarter of 2008 were higher than in the third quarter of 2007 as a result of the expected mining in a higher ore grade section of the Grasberg open pit.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production, resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.
 
8
 Third-quarter 2008 results were impacted by restricted access to high-grade material following the small scale failure at the Grasberg open pit in early September 2008.  Remediation activities have been substantially completed and PT-FI regained access to the affected high-grade section in October 2008.  Fourth-quarter 2008 sales are expected to approximate 400 million pounds of copper and 370 thousand ounces of gold.
   
 
FCX expects Indonesia sales of 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold for the year 2008, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 2.2 million ounces of gold for the year 2007.  Indonesias production and sales volumes for copper and gold are expected to be higher in 2009 as PT-FI mines higher grade ore.
 
  The following table summarizes PT-FIs unit net cash costs.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
PT-FIs unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, averaged $1.19 per pound for third-quarter 2008, compared with $1.30 per pound for third-quarter 2007.  The lower unit net cash costs in 2008 reflected higher copper and gold volumes and higher gold prices, partly offset by higher input costs during third-quarter 2008.  Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.
 
Assuming average copper prices of $2.15 per pound and average gold prices of $800 per ounce for the fourth quarter of 2008, achievement of current 2008 sales estimates and using recent prices for commodity-based input costs, PT-FI estimates that its 2008 unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, would approximate $0.76 per pound for the fourth quarter and average $1.04 per pound for the year.  Unit net cash costs for 2008 would change by approximately $0.01 per pound for each $25 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
FCX expects PT-FIs 2009 unit net cash cost to be significantly lower than 2008 levels because of higher gold volumes and reduced commodity-based input costs.
 
  FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at the Henderson underground mine in Colorado in addition to sales of by-product molybdenum from FCXs North and South America copper mines.  FCX is engaged in a project to restart the Climax open-pit molybdenum mine in Colorado.  These mining operations are wholly owned.
M
olybdenum
.
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
In the third quarter of 2008, consolidated molybdenum sales from the Henderson mine and by-product mines totaled 19 million pounds, three million pounds higher than third-quarter 2007.
 
Approximately 85 percent of FCXs expected 2008 molybdenum production is committed for sale throughout the world pursuant to annual or quarterly agreements based primarily on prevailing market prices one month prior to the time of sale.  For 2009, 90 percent of sales are expected to be priced at approximate prevailing market prices.  The Dealer Oxide closing price for molybdenum on October 20, 2008, was $27.50 per pound.
Metals Week
 
For the year 2008, FCX expects molybdenum sales from its mines to approximate 74 million pounds, compared with 69 million pounds of molybdenum for year 2007, which includes combined FCX historical results and Phelps Dodge pre-acquisition results for the period January 1, 2007, through March 19, 2007.
 
  Third-quarter 2008 unit net cash costs of $4.90 per pound of molybdenum at the Henderson molybdenum mine were higher, compared with unit net cash costs of $4.34 per pound for third-quarter 2007, primarily because of higher input costs, including outside services, supplies and energy.  Assuming achievement of current 2008 sales estimates, FCX estimates 2008 average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine of approximately $5.00 per pound of molybdenum.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
OTHER ITEMS
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on PT-FIs and its South America mines sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting affiliate, until final sales to third parties occur.  Changes in these net deferrals resulted in additions to FCXs net income totaling $33 million, $0.07 per share, in both the third quarter of 2008 and the first nine months of 2008.  For the 2007 periods, changes in these net deferrals resulted in an addition to FCXs net income totaling $91 million, $0.20 per share, in the third quarter and a reduction to net income of $11 million, $0.03 per share, in the first nine months.  At September 30, 2008, FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FIs and its South America mines concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income after taxes and minority interests totaled $59 million.
DEVELOPMENT and EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
  FCX is engaged in capital projects to expand its production volumes, extend its mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies.  Recently completed and current major projects under way include a major new mining complex at Safford, Arizona; a project to restart open-pit mining at the Climax molybdenum mine; the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies in the Grasberg district and development of the highly prospective Tenke Fungurume project in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
Development Activities.
 
In addition to these projects, FCX has also been reviewing its properties to evaluate potential expansion opportunities associated with existing ore bodies.  In response to the significant change in economic conditions and the recent sharp decline in copper prices, FCX is deferring several expansion projects, including the incremental expansion projects at Sierrita and Bagdad and the planned restart of the Miami mine.  FCX had previously estimated capital costs of $370 million for these projects and production of 180 million pounds of copper and six million pounds of molybdenum per year beginning in 2010.
 
  Construction of a major new copper mine in Safford, Arizona, is complete and copper production is being ramped up.  Copper production at totaled 22 million pounds in first-quarter 2008, 24 million pounds in second-quarter 2008 and 43 million pounds in third-quarter 2008.  Design capacity of the ore stacking circuit was reached during third-quarter 2008 and progress is being made on leach recovery optimization.  The Safford copper mine produces ore from two open-pit mines and includes a solution extraction/electrowinning facility.  FCX will continue to pursue additional
North America.
Safford
 
10
exploration and development potential in this district, including the Lone Star project, a potentially large mineral resource currently being evaluated with a drilling program.
 
FCX is advancing its plan to restart the molybdenum mine near Leadville, Colorado.  Climax is believed to be the largest, highest grade and lowest cost undeveloped molybdenum ore body in the world.  Engineering and construction are progressing well.  The initial $500 million project involves open-pit mining and the construction of new milling facilities.  After start-up and commissioning during 2010, production is expected to approximate 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year.  The project is designed to enable the consideration of further large-scale expansion of the Climax mine.  Further expansions will depend in large part on market conditions.
Climax
 
  FCX is advancing the development of a large sulfide deposit at that will extend the mine life by over ten years.  Copper production from the sulfides has been targeted to begin in 2010 and would be expected to average approximately 325 million pounds of copper per year beginning in 2012, replacing depleting oxide production.  Certain of the existing facilities at El Abra will be used to process the additional sulfide reserves.  In March 2008, FCX received approval of its environmental impact study associated with this project.  Total initial capital for the project is estimated to approximate $450 million.  FCX is currently assessing the potential to defer spending on this project as a result of current market conditions.
South America.
El
A
bra
 
  PT-FI has several projects in progress throughout the district, including developing its large-scale underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit.  The expansion of the currently producing Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine to 50,000 metric tons of ore per day is complete with third-quarter rates averaging 60,800 metric tons per day.  A further expansion of the DOZ mine to 80,000 metric tons per day is under way with completion targeted by 2010.  Other projects include the development of the high-grade Big Gossan mine, currently designed to ramp up to full production of 7,000 metric tons per day in 2011, and the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, which will provide access to the Grasberg underground ore body, the Kucing Liar ore body and future development of the mineralized areas below the DOZ mine.  FCX will seek opportunities to defer capital spending in the Grasberg district where possible.
Indonesia.
Grasberg
 
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the  copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the DRC.  FCX is the operator of the project.  The initial project at Tenke Fungurume is based on mining and processing ore reserves approximating 100 million metric tons with average ore grades of 2.3 percent copper and 0.3 percent cobalt.  FCX is currently engaged in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of this highly prospective district and expects its ore reserves to increase significantly over time.
Africa.
Tenke Fungurume
 
Approximately $1.0 billion in aggregate project costs have been incurred to date.  Construction activities are being advanced with current activities focused on concrete placement, steel tank erection, structural steel and infrastructure development including shops, warehouses and extensive social and regional infrastructure programs.  All long lead-time equipment has been ordered and initial production is targeted during the second half of 2009.  Annual production in the initial years of the project is expected to approximate 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt.  FCX expects the results of drilling activities will enable significant future expansion of initial production rates.  The timing of these expansions will be dependent on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions.
 
FCX is responsible for funding 70 percent of the project development costs and is also responsible for financing its partners share of certain project overruns.  A capital cost review prepared in April 2008 indicates estimated capital costs of approximately $1.75 billion (approximately $1.9 billion including loans to a third-party government agency for power development).  These estimates include substantial amounts for infrastructure to support a larger scale operation than the initial phase of the project, including the provision of expanded electrical power-generating capacity and improved power reliability for the region.  This regional power infrastructure investment is estimated to approximate $175 million, the majority of which is expected to be funded through a loan to the DRC State power authority.
11
 FCX is continuing to develop plans to enhance the economic returns of the project, including potential expansions of this high potential resource.  The capital cost estimates and timing of start-up will continue to be reviewed and updated as the project development progresses.
   
  
 
  FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate.
Exploration Activities.
 
Drilling activities have been significantly expanded over the last twelve months.  These efforts involve drilling adjacent to existing ore bodies.  The number of drill rigs has been expanded from 26 in March 2007 to approximately 100 currently.  Exploration expenses in 2008 are expected to approximate $275 million.  In response to current market conditions, FCX may reduce exploration expenses in future periods by deferring certain activities.
 
Results to date have been positive, providing opportunities for significant potential reserve additions at Morenci, Bagdad and Sierrita in North America; Cerro Verde in South America and in the high potential Tenke district.  Drilling continues at the Lone Star deposit in the Safford district.  FCX expects 2008 reserve additions to significantly exceed 2008 estimated production.
 
In addition, FCX continues to pursue exploration in Indonesia.  FCXs 2008 exploration efforts in Indonesia include testing extensions of the Deep Grasberg and Kucing Liar mine complex, evaluating the resource below the depleted Ertsberg pit for potential resumption of open pit mining and evaluating targets in the area between the Ertsberg East and Grasberg mineral systems from the new Common Infrastructure tunnels.
CASH and DEBT
 
At September 30, 2008, FCX had consolidated cash of $1.2 billion and net cash available to the parent company of $0.8 billion as shown below (in billions):
 
 
 
 
At September 30, 2008, FCX had $7.2 billion in debt.  The following table summarizes FCXs debt transactions since December 31, 2007 (in billions):
 
 
At September 30, 2008, FCX had $63 million of letters of credit issued, resulting in total availability of $1.4 billion under its revolving credit facilities that mature in 2012.
 
12
FCX has no significant debt maturities in the near-term as indicated in the table below (in millions).
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
FCXs actual consolidated sales volumes for the first nine months of 2008 and projected consolidated sales volumes for the year 2008 are shown below:
 
 
The achievement of FCXs sales estimates will be dependent on the achievement of targeted mining rates and expansion plans, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.
 
Using estimated sales volumes for 2008 and assuming average prices of $2.15 per pound of copper, $800 per ounce of gold and $27 per pound of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2008, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows would be in excess of $3.5 billion in 2008.  Each $0.20 per pound change in copper prices in the fourth quarter would impact 2008 operating cash flows by approximately $250 million.  FCXs capital expenditures for 2008 are currently estimated to approximate $2.7 billion, including $800 million in fourth-quarter 2008.  In response to current economic conditions, FCX is taking steps to reduce capital spending and operating costs.
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder values through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.  FCX is committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
 
FCXs current annual common dividend is $2.00 per share.  Common dividends currently total approximately $755 million per year and preferred dividends total approximately $255 million per year.  During the third quarter of 2008, FCX purchased 6.3 million shares of its common stock for $500 million, an average of $79.15 per share.  As of October 20, 2008, 23.7 million shares remain available under the Board authorized open market share purchase program.  The timing of future purchases is dependent
 
13
upon many factors including the companys operating results, its cash flow and financial position, its future expansion plans, copper prices, the market price of the common shares and general economic and market conditions.  Because of recent financial market turmoil and sharp declines in commodity prices, FCX has not purchased any of its common shares since September 15, 2008, and does not anticipate purchasing shares of its common stock in the near term.  The Board will continue to review FCXs financial policy on an ongoing basis.
 
 
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume development project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at .
www.fcx.com
 
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes, the impact of changes in deferred intercompany profits on earnings and timing of dividend payments and open market purchases of FCX common stock.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of FCXs Board of Directors and will depend on FCXs financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements or pro forma consolidated financial results are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VIII, which is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.
 
A copy of this press release is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.  A conference call with securities analysts about third-quarter 2008 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. EDT.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the webcast live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com. A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, November 14, 2008.
 
14
 
 
I
 
 
 
II
 
 
III
 
 
IV
 
 
V
 
 
VI
 
The following pro forma information assumes that FCX acquired Phelps Dodge effective January 1, 2007. The most significant adjustments relate to the purchase accounting impacts on the carrying values of acquired metal inventories (including mill and leach stockpiles) and property, plant and equipment using March 19, 2007, metal prices and assumptions (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
Additionally, for comparative purposes, the historical Phelps Dodge financial information for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, represents results from continuing operations, and therefore, excludes the results of PDIC (i.e., discontinued operations).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations. In the co-product method presentations, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, lower of cost or market adjustments, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. In addition, for comparative purposes, FCX has presented the calculation for the North America copper mines, South America copper mines and Henderson molybdenum mine for the nine month period ended September 30, 2007, on a pro forma basis, which combines FCXs historical results with the Phelps Dodge pre-acquisition results for the period January 1, 2007, through March 19, 2007, and also includes certain pro forma adjustments, which assume the acquisition of Phelps Dodge was effective January 1, 2007. As the pre-acquisition results represent the results of the North America and South America copper mines and the Molybdenum operations under Phelps Dodge management, such results are not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or future operating results. Presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods are shown together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements and in FCXs consolidated pro forma financial data for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 (see page VII).
 
VIII
 
 
 
IX
 
 
X
 
 
 
XI
 
 
 
XII
 
 
 
XIII
 
 
XIV
 
 
XV
 
 
XVI
 
 
XVII
 
 
XVIII
 
 
XIX
 
 
XX
 
 
 
 
 
XXI
 
 
 
 
XXII
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs third-quarter 2008 income tax provision from continuing operations resulted from taxes on international operations ($268 million), partly offset by a benefit on U.S. operations ($28 million).  Because of the recent decline in copper prices and changes in PT Freeport Indonesias sales projections, FCXs projected consolidated annual tax rate for 2008 has decreased from approximately 34 percent to approximately 32 percent. FCXs third-quarter effective tax rate of approximately 24 percent reflects the cumulative impact of this reduced annual tax rate.
FCXs income tax provision for the first nine months of 2008 included taxes on international operations ($1.4 billion) and U.S. taxes ($234 million). The difference between FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate of approximately 32 percent for the first nine months of 2008 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent was primarily attributable to a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion, partially offset by withholding taxes and incremental U.S. income tax accrued on foreign earnings.
FCXs third-quarter 2007 income tax provision from continuing operations resulted from taxes on earnings at international operations ($584 million) and U.S. taxes ($69 million). FCXs income tax provision for the first nine months of 2007 included taxes on international operations ($1.7 billion) and U.S. taxes ($161 million). The difference between FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate of approximately 37 percent for the first nine months of 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent was primarily attributable to withholding taxes related to earnings from Indonesia and South America operations and a U.S. foreign tax credit limitation, partly offset by a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion.
A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes for the first nine months of 2008 and 2007 follows (in millions, except percentages):
 
XXIII
 
FCX has revised the presentation of the operating divisions to better reflect managements view of the consolidated FCX operations, but did not change its reportable segments. For comparative purposes, FCX has also revised the business segments disclosures for the three-month and nine-month periods ending September 30, 2007, to conform with current period presentation.
FCX has organized its mining operations into four primary operating divisions  North America mines, South America mines, Indonesia mining and Molybdenum. Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis. Therefore, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines. Operating segments that meet SFAS No. 131 thresholds are reportable segments. Further discussion of the reportable segments included in FCXs primary operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segments  Rod & Refining and Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining  follows.
  FCX has seven operating copper mines in North America  Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita, Safford, Miami, Chino and Tyrone. The North America mines division includes the Morenci copper mine as a reportable segment. In addition to copper, the Morenci mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a by-product. Other North America mines include FCXs other operating southwestern U.S. copper mines. In addition to copper, the Bagdad, Sierrita and Chino mines produce molybdenum, gold and silver.
North America Copper Mines.
  FCX has four operating copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile. The South America mines division includes the Cerro Verde copper mine as a reportable segment. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum. Other South America mines include FCXs Chilean copper mines. In addition to copper, Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver.
South America Copper Mines.
  Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg copper and gold mining operations.
Indonesia.
The Molybdenum segment includes the Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities. The Molybdenum segment also includes a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from the Henderson mine as well as from the North America and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by-product.
Molybdenum.
The Rod & Refining segment consists of copper conversion facilities, including a refinery, four rod mills and a specialty copper products facility. This segment processes copper produced at FCXs North America mines and purchased copper into copper anode, cathode, rod and custom copper shapes. At times this segment refines copper and produces copper rod and shapes for customers on a toll basis.
Rod & Refining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
Other includes the Miami smelter, which processes FCXs North America copper concentrates and provides a significant source of sulfuric acid for the North America copper mines; and a sales company, which functions as an agent to purchase metals, primarily copper from the North America and South America mines, and sells to Atlantic Copper and third parties.
Other.
  Intersegment sales by the North America, South America and Indonesia mines are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale. Intersegment sales by any individual mine may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Intersegment Sales
.
FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital to the operating divisions and individual segments. However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated. All federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level with the exception of foreign income taxes, which are generally recorded and managed at the applicable mine or operation. In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs are not allocated to the operating division or segments. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
Allocations.
 
XXIV
 
 
XXV
 
 
XXVI
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


