FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20091021163032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated October 21, 2009, announcing its third-quarter and nine-month 2009 results and supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its October 21, 2009, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
FCX also issued a press release dated October 21, 2009, announcing that its Board of Directors has reinstated an annual cash dividend on its common stock of $0.60 per share.  The Board would declare a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, with the initial dividend expected to be paid on February 1, 2010 (see exhibit 99.3).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 21, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
1
 
PHOENIX, AZ, October 21, 2009  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported third-quarter 2009 net income attributable to common stock of $925 million, $2.07 per share, compared with $523 million, $1.31 per share, for the third quarter of 2008.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, FCX reported net income attributable to common stock of $1.6 billion, $3.70 per share, compared with $2.6 billion, $6.20 per share, in the 2008 nine-month period.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our third-quarter results reflect strong operating performance, high volumes from our Grasberg mine and improved commodity prices for our products  copper, gold and molybdenum.  We are benefiting from improvements in our cost structure, particularly at our North America mines.  We are positioned to pursue additional investments and growth opportunities within our existing asset base, when economies in the developed countries recover.  Our strong performance in 2009 has enabled our Board to reinstate a cash dividend for our shareholders.  We will continue to focus our cash flows on strengthening our balance sheet, investing in our future growth and providing cash returns to shareholders.
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
OPERATIONS
 
  Third-quarter 2009 consolidated copper sales of 1.0 billion pounds approximated third-quarter 2008 copper sales and were higher than the July 2009 estimate of 910 million pounds.  The variance to the previous estimate primarily reflects accelerated mining of a high-grade section in the Grasberg open pit previously forecast to be mined in future periods.
Consolidated.
 
Third-quarter 2009 consolidated gold sales of 706 thousand ounces were significantly higher than third-quarter 2008 gold sales of 307 thousand ounces and the July 2009 estimate of 550 thousand ounces, reflecting accelerated mining of a high-grade section in the Grasberg open pit.
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales of 16 million pounds in the third quarter of 2009 were lower than third-quarter 2008 sales of 19 million pounds but were slightly higher than the July 2009 estimate of 15 million pounds.  The decline from the year-ago period reflects reduced demand for molybdenum in the metallurgical and chemical sectors.
 
Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs, excluding Tenke Fungurume, averaged $1.15 per pound of copper in third-quarter 2009, 31 percent lower than third-quarter 2008 unit costs of $1.66 per pound.  Third-quarter 2009 unit net cash costs, after by-product credits, of $0.50 per pound were significantly lower than the year-ago period of $1.29 per pound.  The improved unit cost performance primarily reflects higher ore grades at Grasberg, reduced operating rates at North America mining operations to lower production of high-cost incremental volumes, achievement of cost savings initiatives and operating efficiencies, and lower energy and other commodity-based input costs.
 
Assuming average prices of $2.75 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2009, unit net cash costs are expected to average approximately $0.60 per pound for the year 2009.  Because of the impact of projected lower fourth-quarter 2009 copper and gold sales volumes from Grasberg, average unit net cash costs of $0.85 per pound for fourth-quarter 2009 are expected to be higher than third-quarter 2009 unit net cash costs.  FCX will incorporate Tenke Fungurume in its consolidated unit net cash cost disclosures upon completion of ramp-up activities, expected in 2010.
 
  FCX operates five open-pit copper mines in North America (Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad and Safford in Arizona and Tyrone in New Mexico).  By-product molybdenum is produced primarily at Sierrita and Bagdad.  All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.
North America Copper Mines.
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in North America totaled 303 million pounds in the third quarter of 2009, 16 percent lower than third-quarter 2008 sales.  FCX continues to operate at reduced rates at certain of its North America copper mines in response to reduced demand for copper in the western world.
 
For the year 2009, FCX expects sales from North America copper mines to approximate 1.2 billion pounds of copper, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper for 2008.  By-product molybdenum production is expected to approximate 26 million pounds in 2009, compared with 30 million pounds in 2008.  North America copper production in 2010 is currently expected to approximate 1.0 billion pounds, reflecting impacts of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations.
 
North America unit site production and delivery costs were significantly lower in the 2009 periods as compared with the 2008 periods primarily because of cost reduction and efficiency efforts, including the impact of lower operating rates and reduced input costs, primarily for energy.  These decreases were partly offset by changes in inventory, reflecting the impact of historical production in inventory with a higher cost basis.  Molybdenum by-product credits were significantly lower in the 2009 periods compared with the 2008 periods primarily because of lower molybdenum prices.
 
Based on current operating plans and assuming achievement of current sales estimates, an average molybdenum price of $10 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2009 and estimates for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North America copper mines would approximate $1.12 per pound of copper for the year 2009.  Unit net cash costs for the year 2009 would change by approximately $0.003 per pound for each $1 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
  FCX is initiating activities to restart copper production at the Miami mine in Arizona.  These activities will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site.  During the approximate five-year mine life, FCX expects to ramp up production to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by the second half of 2011.  This project, which was initially expected to require a $100 million investment, was deferred in late 2008 in response to market conditions.  FCX intends to transfer existing mining equipment from other North American sites to reduce the investment in the project to approximately $40 million.  Operating plans at the other North American sites continue to be reviewed and additional adjustments will be made in response to changes in market conditions.
Development Activities.
 
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine currently producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.  All operations in South America are consolidated in FCXs financial statements.
South America Copper Mines.
 
 
4
 
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in South America totaled 327 million pounds in the third quarter of 2009, 16 percent lower than third-quarter 2008 sales, primarily reflecting lower ore grades at Candelaria and downtime for mill maintenance at Cerro Verde.
 
For the year 2009, FCX expects South America sales of 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold, compared with 1.5 billion pounds of copper and 116 thousand ounces of gold for 2008.  Projected sales volumes for the year 2009 are lower than the year 2008 because of the impact of lower ore grades at Candelaria.
 
South America unit site production and delivery costs were slightly lower in the 2009 periods as compared with the 2008 periods primarily because of lower input costs, primarily for energy.  Treatment charges were higher in the third quarter of 2009 compared with the third quarter of 2008 because the year-ago period was reduced by prior period adjustments related to the significant decline of copper prices in the third quarter of 2008.
 
Assuming achievement of current sales estimates and estimates for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs, including gold credits, for its South America copper mines would approximate $1.11 per pound of copper for the year 2009.
 
  FCX is resuming construction activities associated with the development of the sulfide ore at El Abra.  The project, which had been deferred as a result of market conditions at the end of 2008, involves the development of a large sulfide deposit that will extend the mine life by over ten years.  Production from the sulfide ore of approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year is expected to replace the current oxide copper production that is expected to decline over the next several years.  The project will utilize a portion of the existing facilities to process the additional sulfide ore.  The capital investment for this project is expected to total $600 million through 2015, including $450 million for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in 2012.
Development Activities.
 
FCX has also commenced a project to optimize throughput at the existing Cerro Verde concentrator operations.  The project is expected to increase mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons per day, resulting in incremental annual production of approximately 30 million pounds of copper.  The capital investment for this project is expected to total approximately $50 million.  FCX continues to study the potential for a major expansion at Cerro Verde.
 
 
5
 
  Through its 90.64 percent owned and wholly consolidated subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesia Mining.
 
 
Indonesia copper and gold sales in the third quarter of 2009 were significantly higher than in the third quarter of 2008 as a result of mining of a higher ore grade section in the Grasberg open pit, including accelerated mining of a higher grade section previously scheduled to be mined in future periods.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production, resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.
 
FCX expects Indonesia sales of 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.4 million ounces of gold for the year 2009, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold for 2008.  Gold sales for 2009 are expected to be 100 thousand ounces higher than the July 2009 estimate because of the accelerated mining of a section of the Grasberg mine previously expected to be mined in 2010.  Copper and gold sales volumes in the fourth quarter of 2009 are expected to be lower than third-quarter 2009 volumes because of mine sequencing.
 
PT-FIs unit net cash (credits) costs, including gold and silver credits, averaged a net credit of $0.64 per pound of copper for the third quarter of 2009, compared with a net cost of $1.19 per pound for the third quarter of 2008.  The lower unit net cash costs in the 2009 periods primarily reflected higher copper and gold volumes.  Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.
 
Assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates, average gold prices of $1,000 per ounce for the fourth quarter of 2009 and current estimates for energy, currency exchange rates and other cost factors, FCX expects PT-FIs average unit net cash costs per pound to approximate a net credit of $0.33 per pound for the year 2009.  Fourth-quarter 2009 unit net cash costs are expected to be higher than third-quarter and year-to-date 2009 average unit net cash costs because of lower projected sales volumes.  Unit net cash costs for 2009 would change by approximately $0.015 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
6
 
 
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and is the operator of the project.Construction activities on the initial project are substantially complete.  Copper cathode production commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted rates in September.  The cobalt plant and sulphuric acid plant were commissioned in the third quarter and start-up issues are being addressed.  The current operations are designed to produce 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year.  The following table presents Tenke Fungurumes operating results for the periods ended September 30, 2009:
Africa Mining.
 
 
The high grades of copper and cobalt in the ore at Tenke Fungurume are expected to result in an attractive cost structure once the full operation reaches design capacity.  Upon reaching design capacity in the copper and cobalt circuits and assuming average cobalt prices of $10 per pound, average unit net cash costs are targeted to be $0.50 per pound of copper or lower.  Each $2 per pound change in average prices of cobalt would impact unit net cash costs by $0.12 per pound of copper.  Costs in the initial operations will be higher as start-up issues are addressed.  FCX will incorporate Tenke Fungurume in its unit net cash cost disclosures upon completion of ramp-up activities, expected in 2010.
 
FCX continues to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective district at Tenke Fungurume and expects its ore reserves to increase significantly over time.  These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion.  FCX plans to commence a feasibility study in the fourth quarter of 2009 to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially increasing capacity by 50 percent.
 
The project was designed and constructed in a world-class fashion, using modern technology and following international standards for environmental management, occupational safety and social responsibility.  The facilities include impermeable lined tailing storage and waste-water treatment ponds, the first of their kind in the region.  FCX has made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems.  FCXs social and community development programs include development of local micro-enterprise businesses, agricultural capacity-building initiatives, malaria abatement programs, additional potable water wells, new medical facilities and several new schools.  The project will continue to provide important benefits to the Congolese through employment and the provision of local services and to the DRC government through substantial tax, royalty and dividend payments.
 
FCX is continuing to work cooperatively with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review.  FCX believes its contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modification.  The review process has not affected the development schedule or current operations.
 
7
 
 
  FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at its wholly owned Henderson underground mine in Colorado and sells by-product molybdenum primarily from its North America copper mines.
Molybdenum.
 
 
 
 
In the third quarter of 2009, consolidated molybdenum sales from the Henderson mine and by-product mines totaled 16 million pounds, 16 percent lower than third-quarter 2008 sales.  Molybdenum markets have been significantly affected by the downturn in global economic conditions; as a result, FCX continues to operate its Henderson primary molybdenum mine at 60 percent of capacity.  However, molybdenum prices in recent months have improved from the $9.50 per pound level at the start of 2009.  FCX has restarted the molybdenum circuit at the Cerro Verde mine, which produced 3 million pounds in 2008, and will continue to review and adjust its operating plans to reflect market conditions.
 
For the year 2009, FCX expects molybdenum sales from its mines to approximate 56 million pounds, compared with 71 million pounds in 2008.  The weekly average Molybdenum Dealer Oxide price as of October 20, 2009, was $12.25 per pound.
Metals Week
 
Unit net cash costs were lower in the third quarter of 2009 compared with the third quarter of 2008 primarily because of cost reduction efforts, partly offset by lower volumes.  Unit net cash costs were higher in the first nine months of 2009 compared with the first nine months of 2008, primarily because of lower volumes.  Assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates, FCX estimates 2009 average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine will approximate $5.60 per pound of molybdenum.
 
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where it currently operates.  Significantly expanded drilling activities during 2007 and 2008 were successful in providing significant reserve additions and in identifying potential additional ore adjacent to existing ore bodies.  Results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad in North America; Cerro Verde in South America and in the Tenke Fungurume district.
 
Exploration spending in 2009 is estimated to approximate $75 million, compared with $248 million in 2008.  FCX continues to analyze exploratory data gained through the core drilling previously undertaken in addition to conducting new activities.
 
PROVISIONAL PRICING AND OTHER
 
For the first nine months of 2009, approximately 56 percent of FCXs mined copper was sold in concentrate, 23 percent as cathode and 21 percent as rod (principally from North America operations).  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of
 
 
8
 
 
FCXs concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.  The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) prices.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded copper price for the period.
 
At June 30, 2009, 434 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales, forward sales contracts and noncontrolling interests) were provisionally priced at an average of $2.25 per pound.  Adjustments to the June 30, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales (net of forward copper sales contracts) resulted in an increase to consolidated revenues of $237 million ($116 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.25 per share) in the third quarter of 2009, compared with a decrease of $280 million ($126 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.28 per share) in the third quarter of 2008.  Adjustments to prior year provisionally priced copper sales in the first nine months of 2009 resulted in an increase to consolidated revenues of $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.14 per share) in the 2009 nine-month period, compared with an increase of $268 million ($114 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.25 per share) in the 2008 nine-month period.
 
LME copper prices averaged $2.65 per pound during the third quarter of 2009, compared with FCXs recorded average price of $2.75 per pound.  Approximately half of FCXs consolidated copper sales during the third quarter were provisionally priced at the time of shipment and are subject to final pricing over the next several months.  At September 30, 2009, FCX had copper sales of 398 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) priced at an average of $2.79 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change in the price from the September 30, 2009, price for provisionally priced sales would have an approximate $13 million effect on FCXs 2009 net income attributable to common stockThe LME closing settlement price for copper on October 20, 2009, was $2.92 per pound.
.  
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on PT-FIs and its South America sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until final sales to third parties occur.  Changes in these net deferrals resulted in reductions to FCXs net income attributable to common stock totaling $29 million, $0.06 per share, in the third quarter of 2009 and $124 million, $0.29 per share, in the first nine months of 2009.  For the 2008 periods, changes in these net deferrals resulted in additions to FCXs net income attributable to common stock of $33 million, $0.07 per share, in both the third quarter and in the first nine months of 2008.  At September 30, 2009, FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI and South America concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income attributable to common stock totaled $152 million.
 
CASH, DEBT and EQUITY
 
At September 30, 2009, FCX had consolidated cash of $2.3 billion.  Net of noncontrolling interests share, taxes and other costs, cash available to parent company is $1.7 billion as shown below (in millions):
 
 
 
9
 
 
At September 30, 2009, FCX had $6.6 billion in debt.  FCX had no borrowings and $73 million of letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facilities, resulting in total availability of approximately $1.4 billion at September 30, 2009.
 
During the third quarter of 2009 and through October 20, 2009, FCX repaid $638 million in debt through the redemption of its 6%Senior Notes due 2014 and open-market purchases of its 8.25% Senior Notes due 2015 and 8.375% Senior Notes due 2017 at a cost of $672 million.  Annual interest cost savings associated with these transactions approximate $48 million.  Losses on early extinguishments of debt totaled $31 million ($28 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.06 per share in the third quarter of 2009 and $0.07 per share in the first nine months of 2009) for the third-quarter transactions and are expected to approximate $10 million ($9 million to net income attributable to common stock in the fourth quarter of 2009) for the recent October transactions.  FCX may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities.
 
 
FCXs debt maturities through 2011 are indicated in the table below (in millions).
 
In September 2009, FCX called for redemption its remaining shares of 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock.  Of the 831,554 shares outstanding at the time of the call, 830,529 shares converted into 17.9 million shares of FCX common stock and the remaining 1,025 shares were redeemed for approximately $1 million cash.  The conversions and redemptions of these preferred shares will result in preferred dividend savings of approximately $46 million per year.
 
At September 30, 2009, FCX had 430 million common shares outstanding.  Assuming conversion of FCXs 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which automatically convert on May 1, 2010, FCX would have between 469 million and 477 million common shares outstanding (depending on the applicable market price of FCXs common stock).
 
OUTLOOK
 
Projected sales volumes for 2009 approximate 4.0 billion pounds of copper, 2.5 million ounces of gold and 56 million pounds of molybdenum, including 915 million pounds of copper, 425 thousand ounces of gold and 14 million pounds of molybdenum in the fourth quarter of 2009.  The achievement of FCXs sales estimates will be dependent on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.
 
Operating cash flows totaled $2.0 billion for the third quarter of 2009 and $2.9 billion for the first nine months of 2009.  Using estimated sales volumes for 2009 and assuming average prices of $2.75 per pound of copper, $1,000 per ounce of gold and $10 per pound of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2009, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows, net of an estimated $0.3 billion of working capital requirements, are estimated to exceed $4.0 billion in 2009.  Working capital requirements principally reflect final settlements with customers in early 2009 of prior year provisionally priced sales.  The impact of price changes on FCXs operating cash flows over the fourth quarter of 2009 would approximate $80 million for each $0.10 per pound change for copper, $30 million for each $50 per ounce change for gold and $5 million for each $1 per pound change for molybdenum.
 
Capital expenditures totaled $244 million for the third quarter of 2009 and $1.1 billion for the first nine months of 2009.  FCXs capital expenditures are currently estimated to approximate $1.4 billion for 2009 and $1.4 billion for 2010.  Capital expenditures for major projects in 2009 are expected to approximate $0.8 billion, which primarily includes Tenke Fungurume (substantially all of which has been funded through September 30, 2009) and underground development activities at Grasberg.  Capital expenditures for major projects in 2010 are expected to approximate $0.7 billion, which primarily includes underground development activities at Grasberg and the sulfide ore project at El Abra.  Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors.
 
 
10
 
 
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder values through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.  FCX is committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
 
FCX announced separately today that its Board has reinstated an annual cash dividend on its common stock of $0.60 per share.  The Board would declare a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, with the initial dividend expected to be paid on February 1, 2010.  The Board will continue to review FCXs financial policy on an ongoing basis.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the DRC.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at www.fcx.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, and potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and open market purchases of FCX common stock.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of FCXs Board of Directors and will depend on FCXs financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements in this press release and does not intend to update the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from results anticipated by forward-looking statements include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, the potential effects of the recent violence in Indonesia, potential outcomes of the contract review process in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as updated by our subsequent filings with the SEC.
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VII, which is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.
 
A copy of this release is available on FCXs web site at .  A conference call with securities analysts about third-quarter 2009 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com.  A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, November 20, 2009.
www.fcx.com
 
 
11
 
 
 
I
 
 
II
 
 
III
 
 
IV
 
 
 
V
 
 
 
VI
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations.  FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations.  This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method.  FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations.  In the co-product method presentations, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items.  Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales.  Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, lower of cost or market inventory adjustments, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges.  They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs.  As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method.
 
 
VII
 
 
 
 
VIII
 
 
 
IX
 
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
XI
 
 
 
XII
 
 
 
XIII
 
 
 
XIV
 
 
XV
 
 
XVI
 
 
 
 
XVII
 
 
 
XVIII
 
 
XIX
 
 
 
 
XX
 
 
XXI
 
FCXs third-quarter 2009 income tax provision resulted from taxes on international operations ($660 million) and U.S. operations ($24 million).  FCXs income tax provision for the first nine months of 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($1.5 billion) and U.S. operations ($29 million).  FCXs effective tax rate for 2009 has been highly sensitive to changes in commodity prices and the mix of income between U.S. and international operations.  Income taxes for FCXs South America and Indonesia operations are recorded at the applicable statutory rates.  At certain commodity prices, FCX does not record a benefit for losses generated in the U.S. and those losses cannot be used to offset income generated from international operations.  The differences between FCXs consolidated effective tax rates for the 2009 periods and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent were primarily attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective rate of 43 percent.
FCXs third-quarter 2008 income tax provision resulted from taxes on international operations ($230 million) and U.S. operations ($10 million).  FCXs income tax provision for the first nine months of 2008 resulted from taxes on international operations ($1.3 billion) and U.S. operations ($308 million).  The differences between FCXs consolidated effective income tax rates for the 2008 periods and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent were primarily attributable to a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion, partly offset by withholding taxes and incremental U.S. income tax accrued on foreign earnings.
A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 follows (in millions, except percentages):
 
 
XXII
 
FCX has organized its mining operations into five primary divisions  North America copper mines, South America copper mines, Indonesia mining, Africa mining and Molybdenum operations.  Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis.  Therefore, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines.  Operating segments that meet certain thresholds are reportable segments.  Further discussion of the reportable segments included in FCXs primary operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segments  Rod & Refining and Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining  follows.
  FCX currently has five operating copper mines in North America  Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Tyrone.  The North America mines division includes the Morenci copper mine as a reportable segment.  Other North America copper mines include FCXs other southwestern U.S. copper mines including mines on care-and-maintenance status.  In addition to copper, the Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum concentrates as a by-product.
North America Copper Mines.
  FCX has four operating copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  The South America copper mines division includes the Cerro Verde copper mine as a reportable segment.  Other South America copper mines include FCXs Chilean copper mines.  In addition to copper, the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as by-products.
South America Copper Mines.
  Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district.  PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver.
Indonesia.
  Africa mining includes the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mine.  The Tenke Fungurume mine produces copper cathode and cobalt hydroxide.  Copper cathode production commenced in March 2009 and the cobalt plant and sulphuric acid plant were commissioned in the third quarter of 2009.
Africa.
  The Molybdenum segment includes the Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities.  The Molybdenum segment also includes a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from the Henderson mine as well as from the North and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by-product.
Molybdenum.
  The Rod & Refining segment consists of copper conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery, three rod mills and a specialty copper products facility.  This segment processes copper produced at FCXs North America mines and purchased copper into copper cathode, rod and custom copper shapes.  At times this segment refines copper and produces copper rod and shapes for customers on a toll basis.
Rod & Refining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
  Intersegment sales between FCXs operations are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale.  Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Intersegment Sales
.
  FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to the operating divisions and individual segments.  However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated.  All U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level, whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable mine or operation.  In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating divisions or segments.  Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
Allocations.
 
XXIII
 
 
 
XXIV
 
 
XXV
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
PHOENIX, AZ, October 21, 2009  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that its Board of Directors has reinstated an annual cash dividend on its common stock of $0.60 per share.  The Board would declare a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share, with the initial dividend expected to be paid on February 1, 2010.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board and Richard C. Adkerson, FCXs President and Chief Executive Officer, said: Our Boards action to reinstate the common stock dividend reflects improved global market conditions and our strong operating performance. The aggressive steps we have taken in the last twelve months to adjust our operating and capital plans in response to changing economic conditions, combined with improved prices for the commodities we produce, have strengthened our financial and liquidity position.  This is enabling us to continue to strengthen our balance sheet, invest in attractive growth projects as economic conditions warrant and now to return to our tradition of providing cash returns to shareholders.
 
The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Board and will depend on the company's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
 
FCX has 430 million common shares outstanding.  Assuming conversion of FCXs 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which automatically convert on May 1, 2010, FCX would have between 469 million and 477 million common shares outstanding (depending on the applicable market price of FCXs common stock).
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at
www.fcx.com.
 
  This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding timing of dividend payments.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of FCX's Board of Directors and will depend on FCX's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from results anticipated by forward-looking statements include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, the potential effects of the recent violence in Indonesia, potential outcomes of the contract review process in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as updated by our subsequent filings with the SEC.
Cautionary Statement.
 
 
1
 


