FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20090721164117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated July 21, 2009, announcing its second-quarter and six-month 2009 results and supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its July 21, 2009, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
FCX also issued a press release dated July 21, 2009, announcing that it has issued a notice to redeem all of its outstanding 6% Senior Notes due 2014 on August 20, 2009, for $352 million (see exhibit 99.3).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  July 21, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
1
 
PHOENIX, AZ, July 21, 2009  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported second-quarter 2009 net income attributable to common stock of $588 million, $1.38 per share, compared with $947 million, $2.25 per share, for the second quarter of 2008.  For the six months ended June 30, 2009, FCX reported net income attributable to common stock of $631 million, $1.54 per share, compared with $2.1 billion, $4.89 per share, in the 2008 six-month period.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our results reflect strong operating performance at all of our operations and successful execution of our plans.  Over the past six months, we have achieved meaningful reductions in our costs, enabling us to generate strong margins and cash flows.  Results from the Grasberg operation are particularly impressive, reflecting the mining of a high-grade section in the massive Grasberg open pit.  We are also successfully transitioning our Tenke Fungurume project from a construction project to operating status, which will enhance our future cash flows.  We commend our entire team for their significant achievements in the first half of the year and are pleased with how our company is positioned to build on these achievements to generate value for shareholders.
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPERATIONS
 
  Second-quarter 2009 consolidated copper sales of 1.1 billion pounds were higher than second-quarter 2008 sales of 942 million pounds and the April 2009 estimate of 955 million pounds.  The increase from the prior-year quarter primarily reflects the mining of a higher grade section in the Grasberg open pit partially offset by production curtailments in North America.  The favorable variance to the April 2009 estimate reflects the accelerated mining of a high-grade section in the Grasberg open pit.
Consolidated.
 
Second-quarter 2009 consolidated gold sales of 837 thousand ounces were significantly higher than second-quarter 2008 gold sales of 265 thousand ounces because of higher ore grades at Grasberg.  Second-quarter 2009 consolidated sales of gold exceeded the April 2009 estimate of 650 thousand ounces primarily because of accelerated mining of a high-grade section in the Grasberg open pit.
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales of 16 million pounds in the second quarter of 2009 were lower than second-quarter 2008 sales of 20 million pounds but were higher than the April 2009 estimate of 11 million pounds.  Sales were higher than first-quarter 2009 and the April 2009 estimate because of increased sales to Europe and Asia.
 
Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs averaged $1.04 per pound of copper in second-quarter 2009, 35 percent lower than second-quarter 2008 unit costs of $1.59 per pound.  Second-quarter 2009 unit net cash costs, after by-product credits, of $0.43 per pound were significantly lower than the year-ago period primarily as a result of higher ore grades at Grasberg, reduced operating rates following production curtailments at North America mining operations, achievement of operating efficiencies, and lower energy and other commodity-based input costs.  Assuming average prices of $2.25 per pound for copper, $900 per ounce for gold and $8 per pound for molybdenum for the second half of 2009, and using recent prices for commodity-based input costs, unit net cash costs are expected to average approximately $0.70 per pound for the year 2009.  Because of the impact of projected lower second-half 2009 copper and gold sales volumes from Grasberg, unit net cash costs for the second half of 2009 are expected to be higher than the first-half 2009 unit net cash costs.  FCX will incorporate Tenke Fungurume in its consolidated unit net cash cost disclosures upon completion of ramp-up activities.
 
3
 
  FCX operates five open-pit copper mines in North America (Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad and Safford in Arizona and Tyrone in New Mexico).  By-product molybdenum is produced primarily at Sierrita and Bagdad.  All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.
North America Copper Mines.
 
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in North America totaled 281 million pounds in the second quarter of 2009, 19 percent lower than second-quarter 2008 sales primarily reflecting curtailed production rates.  FCX continues to operate at reduced rates at certain of its North America copper mines in response to weak global economic conditions.
 
For the year 2009, FCX expects sales from North America copper mines to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper for 2008.  By-product molybdenum production is expected to approximate 25 million pounds in 2009, compared with 30 million pounds in 2008.  Copper production in 2010 is currently expected to approximate 1.0 billion pounds, reflecting impacts of reduced 2009 mining activities on 2010 leaching operations.  Operating plans continue to be reviewed and additional adjustments will be made in response to changes in market conditions.
 
North America unit site production and delivery costs were lower in the 2009 periods as compared with the 2008 periods primarily because of cost reduction and efficiency efforts, lower operating rates and reduced input costs, primarily for energy.  These decreases were partly offset by changes in inventory, including draw downs of sulphuric acid and other components of inventory with higher costs.  Molybdenum by-product credits were significantly lower in the 2009 periods compared with the 2008 periods primarily because of lower molybdenum prices.
 
Based on current operating plans and assuming achievement of current sales estimates, an average molybdenum price of $8 per pound for the second half of 2009 and estimates for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that its average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North America copper mines would approximate $1.19 per pound of copper for the year 2009.  Unit net cash costs for the year 2009 would change by approximately $0.008 per pound for each $1 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the second half of 2009.
 
 
4
 
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine currently producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.  All operations in South America are consolidated in FCXs financial statements.
South America Copper Mines.
 
 
 For the year 2009, FCX expects South America sales of 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold, compared with 1.5 billion pounds of copper and 116 thousand ounces of gold for 2008.  Projected sales volumes for the year 2009 are lower than the year 2008 because of the impact of previously anticipated mining of lower ore grades at Candelaria.
 
South America unit site production and delivery costs were lower in the 2009 periods as compared with the 2008 periods primarily because of cost reduction and efficiency efforts and lower input costs, primarily for energy, partly offset by draw downs of inventory with higher costs.  Treatment charges were lower in the 2009 periods compared with the 2008 periods because of lower price participation resulting from lower copper prices.
 
Assuming achievement of current sales estimates and estimates for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that its average unit net cash costs, including gold credits, for its South America copper mines would approximate $1.11 per pound of copper for the year 2009.
 
 
5
 
  Through its 90.64 percent owned and wholly consolidated subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesia Mining.
 
 
Indonesia copper and gold sales in the second quarter of 2009 were significantly higher than in the second quarter of 2008 as a result of mining in a higher ore grade section of the Grasberg open pit, including accelerated mining of a higher grade section previously scheduled for future periods.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production, resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.
 
FCX expects Indonesia sales of 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 2.3 million ounces of gold for the year 2009, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold for 2008.  FCX has increased its estimated 2009 gold sales by 100 thousand ounces from previous estimates because of the accelerated mining of a high-grade section previously projected in future periods.  Copper and gold sales volumes in the second half of 2009 are expected to be lower than first-half 2009 volumes because of mine sequencing.
 
PT-FIs unit net cash (credits) costs, including gold and silver credits, averaged a net credit of $0.53 per pound for the second quarter of 2009, compared with a net cost of $1.32 per pound for the second quarter of 2008.  The lower unit net cash costs in the 2009 periods primarily reflected higher copper and gold volumes.  Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.
 
Assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates, average gold prices of $900 per ounce for the second half of 2009 and revised estimates for energy, currency exchange rates and other cost factors, FCX expects PT-FIs average unit net cash costs per pound to approximate a net credit of $0.15 per pound for the year 2009.  Second-half 2009 unit net cash costs are expected to be higher than first-half 2009 unit net cash costs because of lower projected sales volumes.  Unit net cash costs for 2009 would change by approximately $0.035 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the second half of 2009.
 
6
 
 
FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and is the operator of the project.Construction activities on the $1.8 billion project are substantially complete and the first copper cathode was produced in March 2009.  The cobalt plant is currently being commissioned.  Start-up issues are being addressed in the copper and cobalt circuits and FCX expects to ramp up to full annual capacity of 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt in the second half of 2009.  In the second quarter of 2009, Tenke Fungurume produced 36 million pounds of copper and sold 26 million pounds of copper.  FCX expects Tenke Fungurume copper sales to approximate 100 million pounds for the year 2009.
Africa Mining.  
 
 
The high grades of copper and cobalt produced at the Tenke Fungurume mine are expected to result in an attractive cost structure once the operation reaches full capacity.  Upon reaching design capacity in the copper and cobalt circuits and assuming average cobalt prices of $10 per pound, unit net cash costs are anticipated to be less than $0.50 per pound of copper.  Each $2 per pound change in average prices of cobalt would impact unit net cash costs by $0.12 per pound of copper.  FCX will incorporate Tenke Fungurume in its unit net cash cost disclosures upon completion of ramp-up activities.
 
FCX continues to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective district at Tenke Fungurume and expects its ore reserves to increase significantly over time.  These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion.
 
The project has been designed and constructed in a world-class fashion, using modern technology and following international standards for environmental management, occupational safety and social responsibility.  The facilities include impermeable lined tailing storage and waste-water treatment ponds, the first of their kind in the region.  FCX is also making significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems.  FCXs social and community development programs continue to expand, including development of local micro-enterprise businesses, agricultural capacity-building initiatives, malaria abatement programs, additional potable water wells, new medical facilities and several new schools.  The project will continue to provide important benefits to the Congolese through employment and the provision of local services and to the DRC government through substantial tax, royalty and dividend payments.
 
FCX is continuing to work cooperatively with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review.  FCX believes its contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modifications.  The review process has not affected the development schedule or current operations.
 
  FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at the wholly owned Henderson underground mine in Colorado in addition to sales of by-product molybdenum primarily from FCXs North America copper mines.
Molybdenum.
 
 
 
7
 
 
In the second quarter of 2009, consolidated molybdenum sales from the Henderson mine and by-product mines totaled 16 million pounds, 20 percent lower than the second quarter of 2008.  Molybdenum markets have been significantly affected by the downturn in global economic conditions.  Second-quarter 2009 molybdenum sales were 60 percent higher than the first quarter of 2009 and 45 percent higher than the April 2009 estimate, reflecting improved demand from Europe and Asia.
 
FCX continues to operate its Henderson primary molybdenum mine at 60 percent of capacity and has curtailed molybdenum production at Cerro Verde.  FCX will continue to review its operating plans and adjust its operating rates to reflect market conditions.
 
For the year 2009, FCX expects molybdenum sales from its mines to approximate 56 million pounds, compared with 71 million pounds in 2008.  The increase from the previous estimate of 50 million pounds reflects improved sales to Europe and Asia.  For 2009, approximately 90 percent of FCXs molybdenum sales are expected to be priced at prevailing market prices.  The Dealer Oxide closing price for molybdenum as of July 20, 2009, was $12.30 per pound.
Metals Week
 
Unit net cash costs at the Henderson molybdenum mine averaged $6.00 per pound of molybdenum for the second quarter of 2009, $4.98 per pound for the second quarter of 2008, $5.79 per pound for the 2009 six-month period and $5.06 per pound for the 2008 six-month period.  Unit net cash costs were higher in the 2009 periods as compared with the 2008 periods, primarily because of lower volumes.  Assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates, FCX estimates 2009 average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine will approximate $6.00 per pound of molybdenum.  For a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements, refer to the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VII, which is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.
 
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where it currently operates.  Drilling activities were significantly expanded in 2007 and 2008 and were successful in providing significant reserve additions and in identifying potential additional ore adjacent to existing ore bodies.  Results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad in North America; Cerro Verde in South America and in the high potential Tenke Fungurume district.
 
Exploration spending in 2009 is estimated to approximate $75 million, compared with $248 million in 2008.  FCX continues to analyze exploratory data gained through the core drilling previously undertaken in addition to conducting new activities.
 
PROVISIONAL PRICING AND OTHER
 
For the first six months of 2009, approximately 58 percent of FCXs mined copper was sold in concentrate, 21 percent as cathodes and 21 percent as rod (principally from North America operations).  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.  The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) prices.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded copper price for the period.
 
At March 31, 2009, 407 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) were provisionally priced at $1.83 per pound.  In early April 2009, FCX entered into forward copper sales contracts to lock in prices of $1.86 per pound for the period from April through July 2009 on PT-FIs provisionally priced copper sales totaling 355 million pounds (including intercompany sales) as of March 31, 2009.  Forward copper sales contracts on 63 million pounds of copper remain open at June 30,
 
 
8
 
 
2009, and are scheduled to final price in July 2009.  Adjustments to the March 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales (net of forward copper sales contracts) resulted in a net increase to consolidated revenues of $43 million ($13 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.03 per share) in the second quarter of 2009, compared with $5 million ($1 million to net income attributable to common stock or less than $0.01 per share) in the second quarter of 2008.  Adjustments to prior year provisionally priced copper sales in the first six months of 2009 resulted in a net increase to consolidated revenues of $132 million ($62 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.15 per share) in the 2009 six-month period, compared with $267 million ($164 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.37 per share) in the 2008 six-month period.
 
LME copper prices averaged $2.12 per pound during the second quarter of 2009, compared with FCXs recorded average price of $2.22 per pound.  Approximately 57 percent of FCXs consolidated copper sales during the second quarter were provisionally priced at the time of shipment and are subject to final pricing over the second half of 2009.  At June 30, 2009, FCX had copper sales of 434 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales, forward sales contracts and noncontrolling interests) priced at an average of $2.25 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  FCX has not entered into additional forward sales contracts since April 2009 for its provisionally priced sales.  Each $0.05 change in the price from the June 30, 2009, price for provisionally priced sales would have an approximate $14 million effect on FCXs 2009 net income attributable to common stockThe LME closing settlement price for copper on July 20, 2009, was $2.45 per pound.
.  
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on PT-FIs and its South America sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until final sales to third parties occur.  Changes in these net deferrals resulted in reductions in FCXs net income attributable to common stock totaling $32 million, $0.07 per share, in the second quarter of 2009 and $95 million, $0.22 per share, in the first six months of 2009.  For the 2008 periods, changes in these net deferrals resulted in a reduction in FCXs net income attributable to common stock of $6 million, $0.01 per share, in the second quarter and an addition to FCXs net income attributable to common stock totaling less than $1 million, less than $0.01 per share, in the first six months of 2008.  At June 30, 2009, FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI and South America concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income attributable to common stock totaled $123 million.
 
CASH and DEBT
 
At June 30, 2009, FCX had consolidated cash of $1.3 billion.  Net of noncontrolling interests share, taxes and other costs, cash available to parent company is $1.0 billion as shown below (in millions):
 
 
At June 30, 2009, FCX had $7.2 billion in debt.  FCX had no borrowings and $73 million of letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facilities, resulting in total availability of approximately $1.4 billion at June 30, 2009.
 
FCX also announced today that it has called for redemption $340 million in 6%Senior Notes due 2014.  The notes will be redeemed on August 20, 2009, at a redemption price of 103.438% of the
 
 
 
9
 
 
principal amount, equivalent to $352 million, together with accrued and unpaid interest.  Annual interest cost savings approximate $23 million.  FCX expects to record an approximate $14 million charge to net income in the third quarter in connection with the redemption.  FCX may consider additional opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities.
 
FCXs debt maturities in the near-term, excluding $340 million of 6% Senior Notes due 2014 being called for redemption in August 2009, are indicated in the table below (in millions).
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
Projected sales volumes for 2009 approximate 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 2.4 million ounces of gold and 56 million pounds of molybdenum, including 910 million pounds of copper, 550 thousand ounces of gold and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in the third quarter of 2009.  The achievement of FCXs sales estimates will be dependent on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.
 
Using estimated sales volumes for 2009 and assuming average prices of $2.25 per pound of copper, $900 per ounce of gold and $8 per pound of molybdenum for the second half of 2009, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows, net of an estimated $0.5 billion of working capital requirements, would approximate $3.0 billion in 2009.  Working capital requirements principally reflect final settlements with customers in early 2009 of prior year provisionally priced sales.  The impact of price changes on FCXs operating cash flows over the second half of 2009 would approximate $200 million for each $0.10 per pound change for copper, $40 million for each $50 per ounce change for gold and $20 million for each $1 per pound change for molybdenum.
 
FCXs capital expenditures are currently estimated to approximate $1.4 billion for 2009 and $1.0 billion for 2010.  Major projects in 2009 are expected to approximate $0.8 billion, which primarily includes Tenke and underground development activities at Grasberg.  Major projects in 2010 are expected to approximate $0.5 billion, which primarily includes underground development activities at Grasberg and the sulfide project at El Abra.  Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors.
 
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder values through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.  FCX is committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
 
In late 2008, FCX suspended its share purchase program and common stock dividend in response to market conditions.  The Board will continue to review FCXs financial policy on an ongoing basis.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the DRC.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at www.fcx.com.
 
 
10
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, and potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and open market purchases of FCX common stock.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements in this press release and does not intend to update the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, the potential effects of the recent violence in Indonesia, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VII, which is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.
 
A copy of this release is available on FCXs web site at .  A conference call with securities analysts about second-quarter 2009 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com.  A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, August 21, 2009.
www.fcx.com
 
 
11
 
 
 
I
 
 
II
 
 
III
 
 
 
IV
 
 
V
 
 
 
VI
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations.  FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations.  This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method.  FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations.  In the co-product method presentations, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items.  Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales.  Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, lower of cost or market adjustments, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges.  They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs.  As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method.
 
 
VII
 
 
 
 
VIII
 
 
 
IX
 
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
XI
 
 
 
XII
 
 
 
XIII
 
 
 
XIV
 
 
XV
 
 
XVI
 
 
 
 
XVII
 
 
 
XVIII
 
 
XIX
 
 
 
XX
 
 
XXI
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs second-quarter 2009 income tax provision resulted from taxes on international operations ($538 million) and U.S. operations ($4 million).  FCXs income tax provision for the first six months of 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($868 million) and U.S. operations ($5 million).  FCXs effective tax rate for 2009 is expected to be highly sensitive to changes in commodity prices and the mix of income between U.S. and international operations.  Income taxes for FCXs South America and Indonesia operations are recorded at the applicable statutory rates.  However, at certain commodity prices, FCX does not record a tax benefit for losses generated in the U.S., and those losses cannot be used to offset income generated from international operations.  The difference between FCXs consolidated effective tax rate of 40 percent for the second quarter of 2009 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent was primarily attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 43 percent.  The difference between FCXs consolidated effective tax rate of 47 percent for the first six months of 2009 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent was primarily attributable to the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia and from losses that were not benefited in North America.
FCXs second-quarter 2008 income tax provision resulted from taxes on international operations ($510 million) and U.S. operations ($148 million).  FCXs income tax provision for the first six months of 2008 resulted from taxes on international operations ($1.1 billion) and U.S. operations ($298 million).  The differences between FCXs consolidated effective income tax rates for the 2008 periods and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent were primarily attributable to a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion, partially offset by withholding taxes and incremental U.S. income taxes accrued on foreign earnings.
A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 follows (in millions, except percentages):
 
XXII
 
In third-quarter 2008, FCX revised its presentation of the operating divisions to better reflect managements view of the consolidated FCX operations.  For comparative purposes, FCX has revised the business segments disclosures for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2008, to conform with the current period presentation.
FCX has organized its mining operations into five primary divisions  North America copper mines, South America copper mines, Indonesia mining, Africa mining and Molybdenum operations.  Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis.  Therefore, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines.  Operating segments that meet certain SFAS No. 131 thresholds are reportable segments.  In accordance with this guidance, beginning in first-quarter 2009, the Sierrita mine is no longer a reportable segment.  Further discussion of the reportable segments included in FCXs primary operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segments  Rod & Refining and Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining  follows.
  FCX currently has five operating copper mines in North America  Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford, and Tyrone.  The North America mines division includes the Morenci copper mine as a reportable segment.  Other North America copper mines include FCXs other southwestern U.S. copper mines including mines on care-and-maintenance status.  In addition to copper, the Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum concentrates as a by-product.
North America Copper Mines.
  FCX has four operating copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  The South America copper mines division includes the Cerro Verde copper mine as a reportable segment.  Other South America copper mines include FCXs Chilean copper mines.  In addition to copper, the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as by-products.
South America Copper Mines.
  Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district.  PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver.
Indonesia.
  Africa mining includes the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  The first copper cathode was sold in May 2009 as the project has entered the commissioning and start-up phase.
Africa.
  The Molybdenum segment includes the Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities.  The Molybdenum segment also includes a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from the Henderson mine as well as from the North and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by-product.
Molybdenum.
  The Rod & Refining segment consists of copper conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery, three rod mills and a specialty copper products facility.  This segment processes copper produced at FCXs North America mines and purchased copper into copper cathode, rod and custom copper shapes.  At times this segment refines copper and produces copper rod and shapes for customers on a toll basis.
Rod & Refining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
  Intersegment sales between FCXs operations are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale.  Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Intersegment Sales
.
  FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to the operating divisions and individual segments.  However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated.  All U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level, whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable mine or operation.  In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating divisions or segments.  Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
Allocations.
 
XXIII
 
 
 
XXIV
 
 
 
XXV
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
PHOENIX, AZ, July 21, 2009  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that it has issued a notice to redeem all of its outstanding 6% Senior Notes due 2014 on August 20, 2009 for $352 million.  Currently, $340 million aggregate principal amount of the notes is outstanding.
Holders of record will receive 103.438% of the principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest from August 1, 2009 to the redemption date.  Annual interest costs for the notes approximate $23 million.  FCX expects to record an approximate $14 million charge to net income in the third quarter of 2009 in connection with the redemption.  The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, has distributed to the registered note holder written notice of the specific terms of the redemption.
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at www.fcx.com.
 
 
1
 


