FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20090126161902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated January 26, 2009, announcing its fourth-quarter and year ended December 31, 2008 results and supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its January 26, 2009, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  January 26, 2009
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 

 
 
 
1
 
PHOENIX, AZ, January 26, 2009  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported a fourth-quarter 2008 net loss applicable to common stock of $13.9 billion, $36.78 per share, compared with net income of $414 million, $1.05 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2007.  For the year ended December 31, 2008, FCX reported a net loss of $11.3 billion, $29.72 per share, compared with net income of $2.8 billion, $7.50 per share, in 2007.  The results for the year ended December 31, 2007, include the operations of Phelps Dodge beginning March 20, 2007.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, We are taking decisive actions to respond to the currently weak global economic conditions so that our company is positioned to operate on a lean, efficient and low-cost basis while preserving our valuable resources and growth opportunities for the future.  We have a portfolio of assets and an experienced team which enable us to operate effectively during varying market conditions.  Our long-lived reserves, leading market positions in copper and in molybdenum, significant gold production, and attractive growth opportunities in an industry where supply growth has been constrained will enable us to benefit as the worlds economies improve.  Our Grasberg mine with its significant production of high-grade copper and gold ore provides the foundation for sustaining our assets for future success.
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
REVISED OPERATING PLANS
 
Commodity prices declined dramatically during the fourth quarter of 2008.  After averaging $3.61 per pound for the first nine months of 2008, London Metal Exchange (LME) copper prices declined to a four-year low of $1.26 per pound in December 2008 and experienced unprecedented volatility over the last few months.  The LME copper price was $1.38 per pound at January 23, 2009.  Molybdenum prices averaged approximately $33 per pound in the first nine months of 2008.  Slowing demand for molybdenum, principally in the metallurgical sector during the fourth quarter of 2008 resulted in a sudden and sharp decline in molybdenum prices.  The Dealer Oxide price declined to a multi-year low of $8.75 per pound in November 2008 and was $9.30 per pound as of January 26, 2009.
Metals Week
 
While FCXs long-term strategy of developing its resources to their full potential remains in place, the severity of the decline in commodity prices and the present economic and credit environment limits FCXs ability to invest in growth projects and required adjustments to its near-term plans.  FCX announced a series of actions in December 2008 and is today announcing further changes to its near-term operating plans to reduce costs and enhance cash flow performance in the context of weak economic conditions and low commodity prices.  FCX views the long-term outlook for its business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the worlds economy; however, FCX is responding aggressively to the sudden downturn in the copper and molybdenum markets and the uncertain economic outlook.
 
The following tables summarize the actual results for the year 2008 and the current estimates for the years 2009 and 2010 for sales volumes, capital expenditures and unit net cash costs compared with the October and December 2008 estimates.
 
4
 
 
 
 
The revised operating plans reflect reductions in costs associated with lower operating rates and the effects of declines on energy prices and other commodity-based input costs, and FCXs fourth-quarter 2008 LCM inventory adjustments.  In addition, FCX has initiated significant reductions in exploration, research and administrative costs and suspended its common stock dividend and share purchase program.
 
FCX will continue to adjust its operating strategy as market conditions change.
 
OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
Fourth-quarter 2008 consolidated copper sales of 1,197 million pounds were 36 percent higher than fourth-quarter 2007 sales of 878 million pounds and slightly higher than December 2008 estimates of 1,165 million pounds.  Fourth-quarter 2008 consolidated gold sales of 462 thousand ounces were nearly three times higher than fourth-quarter 2007 gold sales of 161 thousand ounces and 16 percent higher than December 2008 estimates of 400 thousand ounces.  Fourth-quarter 2008 consolidated sales of copper and gold were higher than the year-ago period primarily because of higher ore grades at Grasberg and were higher than December 2008 estimates because of slightly higher production and the timing of shipments.  Consolidated molybdenum sales of 12 million pounds in the fourth quarter of 2008 were lower than fourth-quarter 2007 sales of 19 million pounds because of slowing demand and revised mine plans for molybdenum production.
 
Consolidated unit net cash costs averaged $1.04 per pound in the fourth quarter of 2008 and $1.16 for the year 2008.  Cash costs increased significantly during 2008, principally for energy and sulfuric acid.  Commodity-based input costs began to decrease in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the recent sharp declines in prices of energy and other commodity-based input costs.
  FCX operates five open-pit copper mines in North America (Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita and Safford in Arizona and Tyrone in New Mexico).  By-product molybdenum is produced primarily at Sierrita and Bagdad.  All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.
North America
Copper
Min
es
.
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in North America totaled 387 million pounds in the fourth quarter of 2008, 22 percent higher than fourth-quarter 2007 sales primarily because of additional production from the Safford mine, which began operations in December 2007.
 
In response to weak market conditions, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and in January 2009, FCX revised its operating plans at its North America copper mines.  FCXs revised operating plans reflect a 50 percent reduction in the mining and crushed leach rates at Morenci, a 50 percent reduction in the mining and stacking rates at the newly commissioned Safford mine, a 50 percent reduction in the mining rate at the Tyrone mine and a suspension of mining and milling activities at the Chino mine.  The revised plans also include capital cost reductions, including deferrals of incremental expansion projects at the Sierrita and Bagdad mines and the planned restart of the Miami mine.  The revised plans at each of the operations incorporate the impacts of lower energy, acid and other consumables; reduced labor costs and a significant reduction in capital spending plans.  These plans will continue to be reviewed and additional adjustments may be made as market conditions warrant.
 
6
 
For the year 2009, FCX expects sales from North America copper mines to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper.  By-product molybdenum production is expected to total 28 million pounds in 2009.  The effect of curtailed production rates in North America is estimated to approximate 400 million pounds of copper in 2009, an approximately 30 percent reduction compared to October 2008 estimates.  If FCX continues to operate at reduced rates, production in 2010 would be expected to decline by approximately an additional 200 million pounds because of impacts of 2009 mining activities to 2010 leaching operations.
 
  The following table summarizes unit net cash costs at the North America copper mines.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
 
 
North America unit net cash costs were higher in the 2008 periods as compared with the 2007 periods primarily because of increases in energy, labor, sulfuric acid, maintenance and other input costs, combined with higher unit costs at Safford as the mine began production in December 2007.  In addition, unit net cash costs for the year 2008 were impacted by higher mining rates and lower grades at Morenci.  A sharp decline in molybdenum prices in the fourth quarter of 2008 resulted in lower by-product credits.
 
FCXs five operating North America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors.  During the fourth quarter of 2008, North Americas unit net cash costs at its operating copper mines ranged from less than $0.05 per pound at one mine to approximately $1.95 per pound at the Morenci mine, which comprised about 45 percent of North America copper production.  The revised operating plans and reduced input costs are expected to result in significantly lower costs in 2009.
 
Based on current operating plans and assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates, an average molybdenum price of $9 per pound for 2009 and estimates for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that its average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North America copper mines would approximate $1.17 per pound of copper for 2009 (unit net cash costs for individual mines would range from approximately $0.90 per pound to $1.25 per pound of copper).  The 2009 estimate is benefiting from the operating plan revisions and revised input costs, partly offset by draw downs of inventory with higher average costs, which add approximately $0.04 per pound, and incremental pension costs, which add approximately $0.03 per pound.  Unit net cash costs for 2009 would change by approximately $0.02 per pound for each $1 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for 2009.
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  These operations are consolidated in FCXs financial statements, with outside ownership reported as minority interests.
South America
Copper Mines
.
 
FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper and molybdenum concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and
 
7
the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.
 
 
 
 
South America copper sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 were slightly higher than in fourth-quarter 2007 primarily because of the timing of shipments.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2008 and January 2009, FCX revised its operating plans at its South America copper mines in response to weak market conditions.  The revised operating plans for 2009 principally reflect the incorporation of reduced input costs and the impacts of favorable foreign exchange rates on operating costs; reduced mining rates at the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines to reduce costs and improve average ore grades; a significant reduction in capital spending plans, including a deferral of the planned incremental expansion at Cerro Verde and a delay in the sulfide project at El Abra; and reduced spending for discretionary items.  These items do not have a significant effect on estimated 2009 production volumes but impact 2010 production by approximately 100 million pounds.  In response to market conditions, FCX plans to temporarily curtail the molybdenum circuit at Cerro Verde, which produced 3 million pounds of molybdenum in 2008.
 
For 2009, FCX expects South America sales of 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold.  Volumes in 2009 are lower than 2008 because of the impact of previously anticipated mining of lower ore grades at Candelaria.
 
  The following table summarizes unit net cash costs at the South America copper mines.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
8
 
South America unit net cash costs for the fourth quarter of 2008 totaled $1.02 per pound, reflecting higher site production and delivery costs offset by lower treatment charges compared with the fourth quarter of 2007.  South America unit net cash costs were higher for the year 2008 compared with the year 2007 primarily because of higher input costs, including energy, labor and supplies.  These increases were partly offset by increased production, favorable by-product credits and lower treatment charges.
 
FCXs four South America copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and ore characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors.  During the fourth quarter of 2008, unit net cash costs for FCXs South America copper mines ranged from $0.85 per pound to $1.45 per pound.  The Cerro Verde mine, which comprises approximately 45 percent of South America production, had a unit net cash costs of $0.85 per pound in the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
Assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates and estimates for commodity-based input costs, FCX estimates that its average unit net cash costs, including gold and molybdenum credits, for its South America copper mines would approximate $1.00 per pound of copper for 2009 (unit net cash costs for individual mines would range from approximately $0.90 per pound to $1.25 per pound of copper).  South America unit site production and delivery costs for 2009 reflect reduced input costs and currency exchange rates partly offset by the mining of lower ore grades in 2009 compared with 2008.
 
  Through its 90.64 percent owned subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesia Mining.
 
Indonesia copper and gold sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 were higher than in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of mining in a higher ore grade section of the Grasberg open pit, as planned.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production, resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.  After mining in a relatively low-grade section of the open pit in the last half of 2007 and first half of 2008, FCX is currently mining in a high-grade section which is expected to continue throughout 2009.
 
FCX expects Indonesia sales of 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 2.1 million ounces of gold for the year 2009, compared with 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold for 2008.
 
9
 
 
  The following table summarizes PT-FIs unit net cash costs.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
 
PT-FIs unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, averaged $0.55 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared with $1.39 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2007.  The lower unit net cash costs in 2008 primarily reflected higher copper and gold volumes and higher gold prices.  Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.
 
FCX expects PT-FIs 2009 unit net cash costs to be significantly lower than 2008 levels because of higher gold volumes and reduced commodity-based input costs.  Assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates, average gold prices of $800 per ounce for 2009 and revised estimates for energy, currency exchange rates and other cost factors, FCX expects PT-FIs average unit net cash costs per pound to approximate zero for 2009.  Unit net cash costs for 2009 would change by approximately $0.08 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for 2009.
  FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at the Henderson underground mine in Colorado in addition to sales of by-product molybdenum from FCXs North and South America copper mines.  FCX also has a development opportunity to restart the Climax open-pit molybdenum mine in Colorado.  These mining operations are wholly owned.
M
olybdenum
.
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2008, consolidated molybdenum sales from the Henderson mine and by-product mines totaled 12 million pounds, 7 million pounds lower than the fourth quarter of 2007 primarily resulting from lower demand and FCXs revised operating plans to reduce production at Henderson.
 
FCX has revised operating plans at its Henderson primary molybdenum mine to operate at a curtailed rate, reflecting an approximate 25 percent reduction in Hendersons annual production.  Additional reductions at Henderson may be considered if market conditions warrant.  FCX has also made adjustments to its molybdenum production plans at certain by-product mines.  In November 2008, FCX
10
announced the suspension of construction activities associated with the restart of the Climax molybdenum mine near Leadville, Colorado, previously expected to start up in 2010.
 
For the year 2009, FCX expects molybdenum sales from its mines to approximate 60 million pounds, compared with 71 million pounds of molybdenum for 2008.  FCX continues to closely monitor market conditions and may make further reductions to its molybdenum production and sales plans.  For 2009, approximately 90 percent of molybdenum sales are expected to be priced at prevailing market prices.  The Dealer Oxide closing price for molybdenum as of January 26, 2009, was $9.30 per pound.
Metals Week
 
  Unit net cash costs at the Henderson molybdenum mine averaged $6.95 per pound of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2008, $4.68 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2007, $5.36 per pound for the year 2008 and $4.32 per pound for the year 2007.  Fourth-quarter 2008 unit net cash costs were higher, compared with the fourth quarter of 2007, primarily because of lower production and costs to repair a conveyor during the fourth quarter of 2008.  In addition, unit net cash costs for the 2008 periods were higher, compared with the 2007 periods, because of higher input costs, including outside services, supplies and energy.  Assuming achievement of current 2009 sales estimates, FCX estimates 2009 average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine of approximately $5.50 per pound of molybdenum.
Unit Net Cash Costs.
 
PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES
 
FCXs estimated consolidated recoverable reserves include 102.0 billion pounds of copper, 40.0 million ounces of gold, 2.48 billion pounds of molybdenum, 266.6 million ounces of silver and 0.7 billion pounds of cobalt.  Estimated recoverable reserves at December 31, 2008, were determined using a copper price of $1.60 per pound, a gold price of $550 per ounce and a molybdenum price of $8.00 per pound, compared with FCXs 2007 assumptions of $1.20 per pound for copper, $450 per ounce for gold and $6.50 per pound for molybdenum.
 
 
 
 
 
Net additions to recoverable copper reserves totaled approximately 12.8 billion pounds, including additions of 3.9 billion pounds at the North America mines, 7.5 billion pounds at the Cerro Verde mine in South America and approximately 1.6 billion pounds at the Tenke Fungurume project in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).  The additions reflect positive results of drilling programs undertaken during 2007 and 2008.  The increases in reserves replaced over 300 percent of FCXs 2008 copper production and 700 percent of FCXs 2008 molybdenum production.
 
11
 
 
 
DEVELOPMENT AND EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
  FCX has a number of projects and potential opportunities to expand its production volumes, extend its mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies.  In response to weak market conditions, FCX deferred most of its project development activities, including incremental expansions in North America and South America, the Climax molybdenum mine and the El Abra sulfide project, and reduced capital spending programs at the Tenke Fungurume project in the DRC and in Indonesia.
Development Activities.
 
  As previously announced, FCX has suspended construction activities associated with the restart of the Climax molybdenum mine near Leadville, Colorado.  Approximately $180 million of the $500 million project has been incurred through December 31, 2008 and remaining near-term commitments total approximately $12 million.  The project was previously expected to commence production in 2010 ramping up to a rate of 30 million pounds per annum.  Once a decision is made to resume construction activities, the project would be capable of starting up within a 12-18 month timeframe.
North America.
 
  FCX has the opportunity to develop a large sulfide deposit at El Abra that will extend the mine life by over ten years.  Copper production from the sulfides is estimated to average approximately 325 million pounds of copper per year replacing depleting oxide production.  In response to current market conditions, FCX is deferring construction activities.  The project was previously expected to commence in 2010 with full production in 2012.  FCX will continue to assess the timing of this project and will be prepared to proceed with construction activities when market conditions improve.  Total initial capital for the project is estimated to approximate $450 million.  FCX has also delayed the $70 million incremental expansion project for the Cerro Verde concentrator, which is designed to add 30 million pounds per annum of additional production.
South America.
 
  PT-FI has several projects in progress throughout the Grasberg district, including developing its large-scale underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit.  Other projects include the development of the high-grade Big Gossan mine, designed to ramp up to full production of 7,000 metric tons per day, and the continued development of the Common Infrastructure project, which will provide access to the Grasberg underground ore body, the Kucing Liar ore body and future development of the mineralized areas below the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine.  FCX is deferring capital spending in the Grasberg district where practicable.
Indonesia.
 
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concession in the Katanga province of the DRC.  FCX is the operator of the project.  FCX continues to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of this highly prospective district and expects its ore reserves to increase significantly over time.
Africa.
 
Approximately $1.4 billion in aggregate project costs have been incurred through December 31, 2008.  Construction activities are being advanced and initial production is targeted during the second half of 2009.  FCX is responsible for funding 70 percent of the project development costs and is also responsible for financing its partners share of certain project overruns.  FCX estimates remaining costs to complete the initial project will be slightly below its previous estimate of $1.75 billion.
 
12
 
 
Annual production in the initial years of the project is expected to approximate 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt.  The initial project at Tenke Fungurume is based on mining and processing ore reserves approximating 120 million metric tons with average ore grades of 2.6 percent copper and 0.35 percent cobalt.  FCX expects the results of drilling activities will enable significant future expansion of initial production rates.  The timing of these expansions will be dependent on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions.
 
FCX continues to engage in discussion with representatives of the DRC government regarding the ongoing contract review.  FCX believes its contracts are fair and equitable, comply with Congolese law and are enforceable without modifications.  FCX is continuing to work cooperatively with the government to resolve these matters promptly while continuing with its project development activities.
 
  FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where it currently operates.  Drilling activities were significantly expanded over the last year, which identified additional ore adjacent to existing ore bodies.
Exploration Activities.
 
Results to date have been positive, providing opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Bagdad and Sierrita in North America; Cerro Verde in South America and in the high potential Tenke Fungurume district.
 
The number of drill rigs in operation, which expanded from 26 in March 2007 to approximately 100 in the third quarter of 2008, declined to 44 drill rigs at year-end 2008 in response to weak market conditions.  Exploration expenses in 2008 totaled $248 million and are estimated to approximate $75 million in 2009.  FCX plans to incorporate the significant information obtained through these exploration activities in its future plans during 2009, enabling a significant reduction in 2009 exploration costs, as FCX analyzes drilling results to further define its significant resources.
 
 
IMPAIRMENTS AND PROVISIONAL PRICING ADJUSTMENTS
 
  FCX allocated the $25.8 billion purchase price to the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge, with $39.6 billion allocated to assets acquired including $6.2 billion allocated to goodwill.  Metal price projections used to estimate fair values of the net assets acquired in the acquisition of Phelps Dodge ranged from near-term prices of approximately $3.00 per pound for copper declining over an approximate eight-year period to $1.20 per pound and $26 per pound for molybdenum declining over an approximate five-year period to $8.00 per pound, reflecting price expectations at that time.  During the fourth quarter of 2008, FCX completed a review of the carrying values of its long-lived assets.  FCXs impairment evaluations at December 31, 2008, were based on price assumptions reflecting prevailing copper futures prices approximating $1.40 to $1.50 per pound for three years and a long-term average price of $1.60 per pound.  Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound.  In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008, FCX completed its required annual impairment evaluation of goodwill.  For the 2008 periods, these evaluations resulted in the recognition of impairment charges to reduce the carrying values of long-lived assets, other than goodwill, by $10.9 billion ($6.6 billion to net loss or $17.47 per share for fourth quarter and $17.34 per share for the year) and to eliminate the carrying value of goodwill of $6.0 billion ($6.0 billion to net loss or $15.81 per share for fourth quarter and $15.69 per share for the year).
Impairments.
 
13
 
 
The following table summarizes the final purchase price allocation and compares these amounts to the related fourth-quarter 2008 impairment charges (amounts in billions).
 
In connection with FCXs March 2007 acquisition of Phelps Dodge, product inventories and mill and leach stockpiles were recorded at fair values based on market prices and the outlook at the time for future prices.  Financial accounting standards require that inventories be recorded at the lower of cost or market.  As a result of the recent sharp declines in metals prices, FCX recorded charges to operating income for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $760 million ($466 million to net loss or $1.23 per share) in fourth-quarter 2008 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss or $1.26 per share) in 2008.  LCM inventory adjustments were based on price assumptions reflecting prevailing copper futures prices approximating $1.40 to $1.50 per pound for three years and a long-term price of $1.60 per pound.  Molybdenum prices were assumed to average $8.00 per pound.  Without offsetting reductions in production costs, further declines in metals prices could result in additional LCM charges in future periods.
 
  For 2008, approximately 54 percent of FCXs mined copper was sold in concentrate, 27 percent as rod (principally from North America operations) and 19 percent as cathodes.  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCXs concentrate sales and some of its cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.  The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME prices.  The sales subject to final pricing are generally settled in a subsequent month or quarter.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded copper price for the period.
Provisional Pricing Adjustments
.
 
LME copper prices averaged $1.78 per pound during the fourth quarter of 2008, compared with FCXs recorded average price of $1.55 per pound.  The applicable forward copper price at the end of the quarter was $1.39 per pound.
 
At September 30, 2008, 467 million pounds of copper (net of minority interests) were provisionally priced at $2.89 per pound.  Adjustments to these prior period copper sales decreased consolidated revenues by $745 million ($343 million to net loss or $0.91 per share) in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared with a decrease of $257 million ($119 million to net income or $0.29 per share) in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Adjustments to prior year copper sales in 2008 resulted in an increase in consolidated revenues of $268 million ($114 million to net loss or $0.30 per share), compared with a decrease of $42 million ($18 million to net income or $0.05 per share) in 2007.
 
Approximately half of FCXs consolidated copper sales during the fourth quarter were provisionally priced at the time of shipment and are subject to final pricing in 2009.  At December 31, 2008, FCX had copper sales of 508 million pounds of copper (net of minority interests) priced at an
 
14
average of $1.39 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change in the price realized from the December 31, 2008, price would have an approximate $16 million effect on FCXs 2009 net income.  The LME closing settlement price for copper on January 23, 2009, was $1.38 per pound.
 
 
CASH, DEBT AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS
 
At December 31, 2008, FCX had consolidated cash of $872 million.  Net of minority interests share, taxes and other costs, cash available to parent company is $454 million as shown below (in millions):
 
 
At December 31, 2008, FCX had $7.4 billion in debt.  At December 31, 2008, FCX had $150 million of borrowings and $74 million of letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facilities, resulting in total availability of approximately $1.3 billion.  FCX plans to use its credit facility from time to time during 2009 for working capital and short-term funding requirements but does not intend to use the facility for long-term funding items.
 
FCX has no significant debt maturities in the near-term as indicated in the table below (in millions).
 
 
In December 2008, in privately negotiated transactions, FCX induced conversion of 0.3 million shares of its 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $268 million into 5.8 million shares of FCX common stock.  To induce the conversion of these shares, FCX issued to the holders an additional aggregate 1.0 million shares of FCX common stock valued at $22 million.  FCX recorded a $22 million charge to preferred dividends in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Preferred dividend savings resulting from these transactions will total approximately $15 million per annum.
 
OUTLOOK
 
FCXs revised operating plans result in reductions of 400 million pounds of copper in 2009 (9 percent) and 800 million pounds of copper in 2010 (17 percent) compared to October 2008 estimates.
 
Projected sales volumes for the first quarter of 2009 approximate 990 million pounds of copper, 500 thousand ounces of gold and 13 million pounds of molybdenum.  The achievement of FCXs sales estimates will be dependent on the achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors.
 
Using estimated sales volumes for 2009 and assuming 2009 average prices of $1.50 per pound of copper, $800 per ounce of gold and $9 per pound of molybdenum, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows, net of an estimated $0.6 billion of working capital requirements, would approximate $1.0 billion in
 
15
2009.  Working capital requirements principally involve the timing of settlements with customers on 2008 provisionally priced sales.  The impact on FCXs 2009 operating cash flows would approximate $260 million for each $0.10 per pound change for copper, $60 million for each $50 per ounce change for gold and $50 million for each $1 per pound change for molybdenum.  FCXs capital expenditures are currently estimated to approximate $1.3 billion for 2009 and $1.0 billion for 2010.
 
FCX expects to fund its capital spending programs and working capital requirements through operating cash flows, available cash and credit facilities.  In addition, FCX may raise additional debt and/or equity capital depending on terms and market conditions.
 
 
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder values through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.  FCX is committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
 
During September 2008, FCX suspended its share purchase program in response to market conditions.  The timing of future purchases is dependent upon many factors including the companys operating results, its cash flow and financial position, its future expansion plans, copper prices, the market price of the common shares and general economic and market conditions.
 
Because of the recent sharp decline in commodity prices and current uncertain economic conditions, FCXs Board has suspended its annual common stock dividend.  The Board will continue to review FCXs financial policy on an ongoing basis.
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the potential world-class Tenke Fungurume development project in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at www.fcx.com.
 
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding projected sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes, and potential future dividend payments and open market purchases of FCX common stock.  Accuracy of the forward-looking statements depends on assumptions about events that change over time and is thus susceptible to periodic change based on actual experience and new developments.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements in this press release and, except to the extent required by applicable law, does not intend to update or otherwise revise the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.  Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements or pro forma consolidated financial results are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page IX, which is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.
 
A copy of this press release is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.  A conference call with securities analysts about fourth-quarter 2008 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. EDT.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the webcast live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com. A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, February 20, 2009.
 
16
 
 
I
 
 
II
 
 
III
 
 
IV
 
 
V
 
 
VI
 
 
VII
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial information assumes that FCX acquired Phelps Dodge effective January 1, 2007. The most significant adjustments relate to the purchase accounting impacts of increases in the carrying values of acquired metal inventories (including mill and leach stockpiles) and property, plant and equipment using March 19, 2007, metal prices and assumptions:
 
 
 
 
VIII
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations. In the co-product method presentations, costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and nonrecurring costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, lower of cost or market adjustments, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method.
In addition, for comparative purposes, FCX has presented revenues and net cash costs for the North America copper mines, South America copper mines and Henderson molybdenum mine for the year ended December 31, 2007, on a combined basis, which reflects FCXs historical results combined with the Phelps Dodge pre-acquisition results for the period January 1, 2007, through March 19, 2007. As the pre-acquisition results represent the results of the North America and South America copper mines and the Molybdenum operations under Phelps Dodge management, such results are not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX management or future operating results. Presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods are shown together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements and in FCXs consolidated pro forma financial data for the year ended December 31, 2007 (see page VIII).
 
IX
 
 
X
 
 
XI
 
 
XII
 
 
XIII
 
 
XIV
 
 
XV
 
 
XVI
 
 
XVII
 
 
XVIII
 
 
XIX
 
 
XX
 
 
XXI
 
 
XXII
 
 
XXIII
 
 
XXIV
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs fourth-quarter 2008 income tax benefit from continuing operation resulted from a benefit from U.S. operations ($3.7 billion) and a benefit on international operations ($789 million). FCXs benefit for income taxes in 2008 resulted from U.S. operations ($3.4 billion), partly offset by taxes on international operations ($604 million). FCXs effective tax rate changed from a 39 percent expense in 2007 to a 21 percent benefit in 2008. The difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate in 2008 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to goodwill impairment charges, which were non-deductible for tax purposes, and the recognition of a valuation allowance against U.S. federal alternative minimum tax credits, partly offset by benefits for percentage depletion and U.S. state income taxes.
FCXs fourth-quarter 2007 income tax provision from continuing operations resulted from taxes on earnings at international operations ($472 million) and U.S. taxes ($53 million). FCXs income tax provision for 2007 included taxes on international operations ($2.2 billion) and U.S. taxes ($215 million). The difference between FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate of approximately 39 percent for the year 2007 and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent was primarily attributable to (1) an adjustment associated with the reversal of the Phelps Dodge APB Opinion No. 23, Accounting for Income Taxes  Special Areas, indefinite reinvestment assertion on certain earnings in South America, (2) withholding taxes related to earnings from Indonesia and South America operations and (3) a U.S. foreign tax credit limitation, partly offset by a U.S. benefit for percentage depletion and an international tax rate differential.
A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes for the years 2008 and 2007 follows (in millions, except percentages):
 
XXV
 
In third-quarter 2008 FCX revised its presentation of the operating divisions to better reflect managements view of the consolidated FCX operations. For comparative purposes, FCX has also revised the business segments disclosures for the three-month period and year ending December 31, 2007, to conform with the current period presentation.
FCX has organized its mining operations into five primary divisions  North America copper mines, South America copper mines, Indonesia mining, Africa mining and Molybdenum. Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis. Therefore, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines. Operating segments that meet SFAS No. 131 thresholds are reportable segments. Further discussion of the reportable segments included in FCXs primary operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segments  Rod & Refining and Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining  follows.
  Until the fourth quarter of 2008, FCX had seven operating copper mines in North America  Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita, Safford, Miami, Chino and Tyrone. As a result of revised operating plans, Miami and Chino are no longer mining ore. The North America mines division includes the Morenci copper mine as a reportable segment. In addition to copper, the Morenci mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a by-product. Other North America mines include FCXs other operating southwestern U.S. copper mines. In addition to copper, the Bagdad, Sierrita and Chino mines produce molybdenum, gold and silver.
North America Copper Mines.
  FCX has four operating copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile. The South America mines division includes the Cerro Verde copper mine as a reportable segment. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum. Other South America mines include FCXs Chilean copper mines. In addition to copper, the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver.
South America Copper Mines.
  Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg copper and gold mining operations.
Indonesia.
Africa mining includes FCXs 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Africa.
The Molybdenum segment includes the Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities. The Molybdenum segment also includes a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from the Henderson mine as well as from the North America and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by-product.
Molybdenum.
The Rod & Refining segment consists of copper conversion facilities, including a refinery, four rod mills and a specialty copper products facility. This segment processes copper produced at FCXs North America mines and purchased copper into copper anode, cathode, rod and custom copper shapes. At times this segment refines copper and produces copper rod and shapes for customers on a toll basis.
Rod & Refining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
  Intersegment sales by the North America, South America and Indonesia mines are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale. Intersegment sales by any individual mine may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Intersegment Sales
.
FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to the operating divisions and individual segments. However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated. All federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level with the exception of foreign income taxes, which are generally recorded and managed at the applicable mine or operation. In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs are not allocated to the operating division or segments. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
Allocations.
 
XXVI
 
 
XXVII
 
 
 
XXVIII
 
 
XXIX
 
 
XXX
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


