FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20100614164034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
(e)           On June 9, 2010, the stockholders of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (the Company) approved the Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan to, among other things, permit our non-management directors and advisory directors to participate (as amended, the Plan). The purpose of the Plan is to attract, retain and motivate key employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisers and strengthen the mutuality of interests among such persons and the Companys stockholders.
 
The corporate personnel committee of our board of directors generally administers the Plan and, except with respect to grants to non-management directors and advisory directors, has the authority to make awards under the Plan and to set the terms of the awards. The corporate personnel committee also has the authority to interpret the Plan, to establish any rules or regulations relating to the Plan that it determines to be appropriate and to make any other determination that it believes necessary or advisable for proper administration of the Plan. The nominating and corporate governance committee of our board of directors has the authority to grant awards to non-management and advisory directors, to set the terms of those awards, and to interpret and establish rules regarding non-management director and advisory director awards.
 
The types of awards that may be granted under the Plan include stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards. The maximum number of shares of our common stock with respect to which awards may be granted under the Plan is 37,000,000. No individual may receive in any year awards under the Plan, whether payable in cash or shares, that relate to more than 3,750,000 shares of our common stock. Further, the maximum value of an other stock-based award that is valued in dollars and that is scheduled to be paid out to a participant in any calendar year is $5 million.
The Plan may be amended or terminated at any time by our board of directors, subject to the requirement that certain amendments may not be made without stockholder approval. In addition, no amendment may materially impair an award previously granted without the consent of the recipient. Unless terminated sooner, no awards will be made under the Plan after June 9, 2020.
Upon approval of the Plan by our stockholders at the annual meeting on June 9, 2010, certain equity awards previously granted became effective; namely, the 2,000 restricted stock units granted to each of our non-management directors on December 8, 2009, and the stock options to acquire 10,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $66.49 and the 2,000 restricted stock units granted to each of our non-management and advisory directors on June 1, 2010.
For further information regarding the Plan, see our proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 23, 2010. The information included herein relating to the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 5.07 .
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The Company held its 2010 annual meeting of stockholders on June 9, 2010 in Wilmington, Delaware. At the annual meeting, the Companys stockholders (i) elected each of the twelve persons listed below to serve as a director of the Company for a term that will continue until the next annul meeting of stockholders, (ii) ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for the 2010 fiscal year, (iii) approved the Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, (iv) rejected a stockholder proposal regarding requirements for a director candidate and (v) rejected a stockholder proposal regarding stock ownership requirements following termination of employment.
Of the 431,576,428 shares of our common stock outstanding as of the record date, 350,768,370 shares were represented at the annual meeting. Our independent inspector of elections reported the vote of stockholders as follows:
 
 
 
 
Proposal 1: Election of twelve directors.
Proposal 3: Approval of the Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
.  The purpose of the Amended and Restated Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) is to increase stockholder value and advance the interests of the Company and its Subsidiaries by furnishing a variety of equity incentives designed to (i) attract, retain, and motivate key employees, officers, and directors of the Company and consultants and advisers to the Company and (ii) strengthen the mutuality of interests among such persons and the Companys stockholders.
Purpose
 
 
.  As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
 
Award shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, or Other Stock-Based Award.
 
Award Agreement shall mean any written or electronic notice of grant, agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing any Award, which the Company may, but need not, require a Participant to execute, acknowledge, or accept.
 
Board shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
Committee refers to the Corporate Personnel Committee of the Board, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, or both of these committees, as the context indicates.
 
Common Stock shall mean the Companys common stock, $.10 par value per share.
 
Company shall mean Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
 
Designated Beneficiary shall mean the beneficiary designated by the Participant, in a manner determined by the Committee, to receive the benefits due the Participant under the Plan in the event of the Participants death.  In the absence of an effective designation by the Participant, Designated Beneficiary shall mean the Participants estate.
 
Eligible Individual shall mean (i) any person providing services as an officer of the Company or a Subsidiary, whether or not employed by such entity, including any such person who is also a director of the Company; (ii) any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, including any director who is also an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary; (iii) Outside Directors; (iv) any officer or employee of an entity with which the Company has contracted to receive executive, management, or legal services who provides services to the Company or a
 
 
 
 
 
Subsidiary through such arrangement; (v) any consultant or adviser to the Company, a Subsidiary, or to an entity described in clause (iv) hereof who provides services to the Company or a Subsidiary through such arrangement; and (vi) any person who has agreed in writing to become a person described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) within not more than 30 days following the date of grant of such persons first Award under the Plan.
 
Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
 
Immediate Family Members shall mean the spouse and natural or adopted children or grandchildren of the Participant and his or her spouse.
 
Incentive Stock Option shall mean an option granted under Section 6 of the Plan that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
 
Nonqualified Stock Option shall mean an option granted under Section 6 of the Plan that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
 
Option shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.
 
Other Stock-Based Award shall mean any right or award granted under Section 10of the Plan.
 
 
Outside Directors shall mean members of the Board who are not employees of the Company, and shall include non-voting advisory directors to the Board.
 
Participant shall mean any Eligible Individual granted an Award under the Plan.
 
Person shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or political subdivision thereof, or other entity.
 
Restricted Stock shall mean any restricted stock granted under Section 8 of the Plan.
 
Restricted Stock Unit shall mean any restricted stock unit granted under Section 9 of the Plan.
 
Section 162(m) shall mean Section 162(m) of the Code and all regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder as in effect from time to time.
 
Section 409A shall mean Section 409A of the Code and all regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder as in effect from time to time.
 
Shares shall mean the shares of Common Stock and such other securities of the Company or a Subsidiary as the Committee may from time to time designate.
 
Stock Appreciation Right shall mean any right granted under Section 7 of the Plan.
 
 
2
 
 
Subsidiary shall mean (i) any corporation or other entity in which the Company possesses directly or indirectly equity interests representing at least 50% of the total ordinary voting power or at least 50% of the total value of all classes of equity interests of such corporation or other entity and (ii) any other entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect economic interest that is designated as a Subsidiary by the Committee.
 
 
(a)
 
.  The Plan shall generally be administered by the Corporate Personnel Committee.  The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board shall administer the Plan with respect to grants to Outside Directors.  Members of the Corporate Personnel Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall qualify as non-employee directors under Rule 16b-3 under the 1934 Act.
Administration
 
(b)
 
.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, and in addition to other express powers and authorizations conferred on the Committee by the Plan, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (with respect to Outside Directors) and the Corporate Personnel Committee (with respect to all other Eligible Individuals) shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to an Eligible Individual; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by, or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with, Awards; (iv) determ ine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, whole Shares, other whole securities, other Awards, other property, or other cash amounts payable by the Company upon the exercise of that or other Awards, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable by the Company with respect to an Award shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Committee; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of t he Plan; and (ix) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan.
Authority
 
(c)
 
.  Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the applicable Committee, may be made at any time and shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Subsidiary, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any stockholder of the Company, and any Eligible Individual.
Effect of Committees Determinations
 
(d)
 
.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, the Committee may delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority, subject to such terms and limitations as the Committee shall determine, to grant and set the terms of, to cancel, modify, or waive rights with respect to, or to alter, discontinue, suspend, or terminate Awards held by Eligible Individuals who are not officers or directors of the Company for purposes of Section 16
Delegation
 
 
3
 
 
of the Exchange Act, or any successor section thereto, or who are otherwise not subject to such Section; provided, however, that the per share exercise price of any Option granted under this Section 3(d) shall be equal to the fair market value of the underlying Shares on the date of grant.
 
 
.  The Committee, in accordance with Section 3(a), may grant an Award under the Plan to any Eligible Individual.
Eligibility
 
 
(a)
 
.  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5(b):
Shares Available for Awards
 
(i)
 
.
Calculation of Number of Shares Available
 
(A)
 
Subject to the other provisions of this Section 5(a), the number of Shares with respect to which Awards payable in Shares may be granted under the Plan shall be 37,000,000.  Awards that by their terms may be settled only in cash shall not be counted against the maximum number of Shares provided herein.
 
(B)
 
The number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options may not exceed 37,000,000.
 
(C)
 
Subject to the other provisions of this Section 5(a):
 
(1)
 
the maximum number of Shares issuable under the Plan as Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares for which there is a per share purchase price that is less than 100% of the fair market value of the securities to which the Award relates shall be 8,500,000; and
 
(2)
 
up to 1,500,000 of the Shares referenced in Section 5(a)(i)(C)(1) may be issued pursuant to Awards to employees, consultants, or advisers in the form of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares without compliance with the minimum vesting periods set forth in Sections 8(b), 9(b), and 10(b), respectively.  If (x) Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or an Other Stock-Based Award is granted with a minimum vesting period of at least three years or a minimum vesting period of at least one year, subject to the attainment of specific performance goals, and (y) the vesting of such Award is accelerated in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof as a result of the Participant 7;s death, retirement, or other termination of employment or cessation of consulting or advisory services to the Company, or a change in control of the Company, such Shares shall not count against thelimitation described in this Section 5(a)(i)(C)(2).
 
 
(D)
 
To the extent any Shares covered by an Award are not issued because the Award is forfeited or canceled or the Award is settled in cash, such Shares shall again be available for grant pursuant to new Awards under the Plan.
 
(E)
 
In the event that Shares are issued as Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards under the Plan and thereafter are forfeited or reacquired by the Company
 
 
4
 
 
pursuant to rights reserved upon issuance thereof, such Shares shall again be available for grant pursuant to new Awards under the Plan.  With respect to Stock Appreciation Rights, if the Award is payable in Shares, all Shares to which the Award relates are counted against the Plan limits, rather than the net number of Shares delivered upon exercise of the Award.
 
(F)
 
The maximum value of an Other Stock-Based Award that is valued in dollars (whether or not paid in Common Stock) scheduled to be paid out to any one Participant in any calendar year shall be $5 million.
 
(ii)
 
.  Any Shares delivered pursuant to an Award may consist of authorized and unissued Shares or of treasury Shares, including Shares held by the Company or a Subsidiary and Shares acquired in the open market or otherwise obtained by the Company or a Subsidiary.  The issuance of Shares may be effected on a non-certificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of any stock exchange.
Shares Deliverable Under Awards
 
(iii)
 
.  The maximum number of Shares that may be covered by Awards granted under the Plan to any Participant during a calendar year shall be 3,750,000 Shares.
Individual Limits
 
(iv)
 
.  Subject to the terms of the Plan and the overall limitation on the number of Shares that may be delivered under the Plan, the Committee may use available Shares as the form of payment for compensation, grants, or rights earned or due under any other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company or a Subsidiary, including, but not limited to, the Companys annual incentive plan and the plans or arrangements of the Company or a Subsidiary assumed in business combinations.
Use of Shares
 
(b)
 
.  In the event that the Committee determines that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, Subsidiary securities, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee to be appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust any or all of (i) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) with respect to which Awards may be granted, (ii) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (iii) the grant or exercise price with respect to any Award and, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award and, if deemed appropriate, adjust outstanding Awards to provide the rights contemplated by Section 11(b) hereof; , in each case, that with respect to Awards of Incentive Stock Options no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to violate Section 422(b)(1) of the Code or any successor provision thereto and, with respect to all Awards under the Plan, no su ch adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the requirements for full deductibility under Section 162(m); and
Adjustments
provided
 
 
5
 
 
that the number of Shares subject to any Award denominated in Shares shall always be a whole number.
provided
further
 
(c)
 
.  The Committee shall determine at the time of grant if the grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or an Other Stock-Based Award is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation as that term is used in Section 162(m).  Any such grant shall be conditioned on the achievement of one or more performance measures.  The performance measures pursuant to which Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Other Stock-Based Awards shall vest shall be any or a combination of the following:  earnings per share, return on assets, an economic value added measure, shareholder return, earnings, return on equity, return on investment, cash provided by operating activities, increase in cash flow, return on cash flow, or increase in production of the Company, a division of the Company or a Subsidiary.  For any performance period, such performance objectives may be measured on an absolute basis or relative to a group of peer companies selected by the Committee, relative to internal goals or relative to levels attained in prior years.  For grants of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Other Stock-Based Awards intended to qualify as performance-based compensation, the grants and the establishment of performance measures shall be made during the period required by Section 162(m).
Performance Goals for Section 162(m) Awards
 
 
(a)
 
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Options shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Option, the option price thereof, the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Option, and the other terms thereof.  The Committee shall have the authority to grant Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, or both.  In the case of Incentive Stock Options, the terms and conditions of such grants shall be subject to and comply with such rules as may be required by Section 422 of the Code, as from time to time amended, and any implementing regulations.  Except in the case of an Option granted in assumption of or substitution for an outstanding award of a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines, the exercise price of any Option granted under this Plan shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the underlying Shares on the date of grant.
Stock Options
 
(b)
 
.  Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, specify in the applicable Award Agreement or thereafter, provided, however, that in no event may any Option granted hereunder be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years after the date of such grant.  The Committee may impose such conditions with respect to the exercise of Options, including without limitation, any condition relating to the application of Federal or state securities laws, as it may deem necessary or advisable.  An Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving writ ten notice to the Company, specifying the number of Shares to be purchased.  The exercise notice shall be accompanied by the full purchase price for the Shares.
Exercise
 
(c)
 
.  The Option price shall be payable in United States dollars and may be paid by (i) cash or cash equivalent; (ii) delivery of shares of Common Stock, which shares shall be valued for this purpose at the fair market value (valued in accordance with procedures
Payment
 
 
6
 
 
established by the Committee) as of the effective date of such exercise; (iii) delivery of irrevocable written instructions to a broker approved by the Company (with a copy to the Company) to immediately sell a portion of the shares issuable under the Option and to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale proceeds to pay the exercise price; (iv) if approved by the Committee, through a net exercise procedure whereby the Participant surrenders the Option in exchange for that number of shares of Common Stock with an aggregate fair market value equal to the difference between the aggregate exercise price of the Options being surrendered and the aggregate fair market value of the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option; or (v) in such other manner as may be authorized from time to time by the Committee.  Prior to the issuance of Shares upon the exercise of an Option, a Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder.
 
 
(a)
 
.  A Stock Appreciation Right shall entitle the holder thereof to receive upon exercise, for each Share to which the Stock Appreciation Right relates, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of a Share on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the grant price.
Stock Appreciation Rights
 
(b)
 
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Stock Appreciation Rights shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Award of Stock Appreciation Rights, the grant price thereof, the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right and the other terms thereof.  Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with another Award, in addition to another Award, or freestanding and unrelated to any other Award.  Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with or in addition to an Option or other Award may be granted either at the same time as the Option or other Award or at a later time.  Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years after the date of grant.  Except in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in assumption of or substitution for an outstanding award of a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines, the grant price of any Stock Appreciation Right granted under this Plan shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the Shares covered by such Stock Appreciation Right on the date of grant or, in the case of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a then outstanding Option or other Award, on the date of grant of such related Option or Award.
Terms and Conditions
 
(c)
 
.  The Committee shall determine at the time of grant of a Stock Appreciation Right whether it shall be settled in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares.
Committee Discretion to Determine Form of Payment
 
 
(a)
 
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Restricted Stock shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Award of Restricted Stock and the terms, conditions, and limitations applicable thereto.  An Award of Restricted Stock may be subject to the attainment of specified performance goals or targets, restrictions on transfer, forfeitability
Restricted Stock
 
 
7
 
 
provisions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, subject to the provisions of the Plan.  An award of Restricted Stock may be made in lieu of the payment of cash compensation otherwise due to an Eligible Individual.  To the extent that Restricted Stock is intended to qualify as performance- based compensation under Section 162(m), it must be made subject to the attainment of one or more of the performance goals specified in Section 5(c) hereof and meet the additional requirements imposed by Section 162(m).
 
(b)
 
.  At the time that an Award of Restricted Stock is made, the Committee shall establish a period of time during which the transfer of the Shares of Restricted Stock shall be restricted (the Restricted Period).  Each Award of Restricted Stock may have a different Restricted Period.  Except (i) for Restricted Stock that vests based on the attainment of performance goals, and (ii) as provided in Section 5(a)(i)(C)(2), a Restricted Period of at least three years is required with incremental vesting of the Award over the three-year period permitted.  If the grant or vesting of the Shares is subjec t to the attainment of specified performance goals, a Restricted Period of at least one year with incremental vesting is permitted.  The expiration of the Restricted Period shall also occur as provided in the Award Agreement in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof.
The Restricted Period
 
(c)
 
.  The Participant receiving Restricted Stock shall enter into an Award Agreement with the Company setting forth the conditions of the grant.  Certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock shall be registered in the name of the Participant and deposited with the Company, together with a stock power endorsed in blank by the Participant.  Each such certificate shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Escrow
 
The transferability of this certificate and the shares of Common Stock represented by it are subject to the terms and conditions (including conditions of forfeiture) contained in the Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) and a notice of grant issued thereunder to the registered owner by Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  Copies of the Plan and the notice of grant are on file at the principal office of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
 
Alternatively, in the discretion of the Company, ownership of the Shares of Restricted Stock and the appropriate restrictions shall be reflected in the records of the Companys transfer agent and no physical certificates shall be issued prior to vesting.
 
(d)
 
.  Any and all cash and stock dividends paid with respect to the Shares of Restricted Stock shall be subject to any restrictions on transfer, forfeitability provisions or reinvestment requirements as the Committee may, in its discretion, prescribe in the Award Agreement.
Dividends on Restricted Stock
 
(e)
 
.  In the event of the forfeiture of any Shares of Restricted Stock under the terms provided in the Award Agreement (including any additional Shares of Restricted Stock that may result from the reinvestment of cash and stock dividends, if so provided in the Award Agreement), such forfeited shares shall be surrendered and any certificates canceled.  The Participants shall have the same rights and privileges, and be subject to the same forfeiture
Forfeiture
 
 
8
 
 
provisions, with respect to any additional Shares received pursuant to Section 5(b) or Section 11(b) due to a recapitalization, merger or other change in capitalization.
 
(f)
 
.  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and the satisfaction of any other conditions prescribed by the Committee or at such earlier time as provided in the Award Agreement or an amendment thereto, the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock shall lapse and a stock certificate for the number of Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which the restrictions have lapsed shall be delivered or book or electronic entry evidencing ownership shall be provided, free of all such restrictions and legends, except any that may be imposed by law, to the Participant or the Participants estate, as the case may be.
Expiration of Restricted Period
 
(g)
 
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and subject to any restrictions on the receipt of dividends that may be imposed in the Award Agreement, each Participant receiving Restricted Stock shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares of stock during any period in which such Shares are subject to forfeiture and restrictions on transfer, including without limitation, the right to vote such Shares.
Rights as a Stockholder
 
 
(a)
 
.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals to whom Restricted Stock Units shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Award of Restricted Stock Units and the terms, conditions, and limitations applicable thereto.  An Award of Restricted Stock Units is a right to receive shares of Common Stock in the future and may be subject to the attainment of specified performance goals or targets, restrictions on transfer, forfeitability provisions and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, subject to the pr ovisions of the Plan.  An award of Restricted Stock Units may be made in lieu of the payment of cash compensation otherwise due to an Eligible Individual.  To the extent that an Award of Restricted Stock Units is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), it must be made subject to the attainment of one or more of the performance goals specified in Section 5(c) hereof and meet the additional requirements imposed by Section 162(m).
Restricted Stock Units
 
(b)
 
.  At the time that an Award of Restricted Stock Units is made, the Committee shall establish a period of time during which the Restricted Stock Units shall vest.  Each Award of Restricted Stock may have a different vesting period.  Except (i) for Restricted Stock Units that vest based on the attainment of performance goals, and (ii) as provided in Section 5(a)(i)(C)(2), a vesting period of at least three years is required with incremental vesting of the Award over the three-year period permitted.  If the grant or vesting is subject to the attainment of specified performance goals, a vesting period of at leas t one year with incremental vesting is permitted.  The expiration of the vesting period shall also occur as provided in the Award Agreement in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof.
The Vesting Period
 
(c)
 
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and subject to any restrictions that may be imposed in the Award Agreement, each Participant
Rights as a Stockholder
 
 
9
 
 
receiving Restricted Stock Units shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to such Restricted Stock Units until such time as Shares are issued to the Participant.
 
 
(a)
 
.  The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Eligible Individuals an Other Stock-Based Award, which shall consist of an Award that is not an instrument or Award specified in Sections 6 through 9 of this Plan, the value of which is based in whole or in part on the value of Shares.  Other Stock-Based Awards may be awards of Shares or may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for Shares), as deemed by the Committee consistent with the purp oses of the Plan.  The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Other Stock-Based Award and may provide that such awards would be payable in whole or in part in cash.  To the extent that an Other Stock-Based Award is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), it must be made subject to the attainment of one or more of the performance goals specified in Section 5(c) hereof and meet the additional requirements imposed by Section 162(m).
Other Stock-Based Awards
 
(b)
 
.  Except (i) for Other Stock-Based Awards that vest based on the attainment of performance goals, and (ii) as provided in Section 5(a)(i)(C)(2), a vesting period of at least three years is required with incremental vesting of the Award over the three-year period permitted.  If the grant or vesting is subject to the attainment of specified performance goals, a vesting period of at least one year with incremental vesting is permitted.  The expiration of the vesting period shall also occur as provided in the Award Agreement in accordance with Section 12(a) hereof.
The Vesting Period
 
(c)
 
.  In the sole and complete discretion of the Committee, an Award, whether made as an Other Stock-Based Award under this Section 10 or as an Award granted pursuant to Sections 8 and 9 hereof, may provide the holder thereof with dividends or dividend equivalents, payable in cash, Shares, Subsidiary securities, other securities or other property on a current or deferred basis.
Dividend Equivalents
 
 
(a)
 
.  The Board may amend or discontinue the Plan at any time; provided, however, that no such amendment may
Amendment or Discontinuance of the Plan
 
(i)
 
without the approval of the stockholders, (A) increase, subject to adjustments permitted herein, the maximum number of shares of  Common Stock that may be issued through the Plan, (B) materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan, (C) materially expand the classes of persons eligible to participate in the Plan, (D) expand the types of Awards available for grant under the Plan, (E) materially extend the term of the Plan, (F) materially change the method of determining the exercise price of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, or (G) amend Section 11(c) to permit a reduction in the exercise price of Options; or
 
 
10
 
 
(ii)
 
materially impair, without the consent of the recipient, an Award previously granted.
 
(b)
 
.  The Committee is hereby authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 5(b) hereof) affecting the Company, or the financial statements of the Company or any Subsidiary, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made availa ble under the Plan.
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
 
(c)
 
.  Any provision of this Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Committee may cause any Award granted hereunder to be canceled in consideration of a cash payment or alternative Award made to the holder of such canceled Award equal in value to such canceled Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, except for adjustments permitted under Sections 5(b) and 11(b), no action by the Committee shall, unless approved by the stockholders of the Company, (i) cause a reduction in the exercise price of Options granted under the Plan or (ii) permit an outstanding Option with an exercise price greater than the current fair ma rket value of a Share to be surrendered as consideration for a new Option with a lower exercise price, shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Other Stock-Based Award, a cash payment, or Common Stock.  The determinations of value under this subparagraph shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Cancellation
 
 
(a)
 
.  Each Award hereunder shall be evidenced by an agreement or notice delivered to the Participant (by paper copy or electronically) that shall specify the terms and conditions thereof and any rules applicable thereto, including but not limited to the effect on such Award of the death, retirement or other termination of employment or cessation of consulting or advisory services of the Participant and the effect thereon, if any, of a change in control of the Company.
Award Agreements
 
(b)
 
.
Withholding
 
(i)           A Participant shall be required to pay to the Company, and the Company shall have the right to deduct from all amounts paid to a Participant (whether under the Plan or otherwise), any taxes required by law to be paid or withheld in respect of Awards hereunder to such Participant.  The Committee may provide for additional cash payments to holders of Awards to defray or offset any tax arising from the grant, vesting, exercise or payment of any Award.
 
(ii)
 
At any time that a Participant is required to pay to the Company an amount required to be withheld under the applicable tax laws in connection with the issuance of Shares under the Plan, the Participant may, if permitted by the Committee, satisfy this obligation in whole or in part by delivering currently owned Shares or by electing (the Election) to have the Company withhold from the issuance Shares, which Shares shall have a value equal to the
 
 
11
 
 
minimum amount required to be withheld.  The value of the Shares delivered or withheld shall be based on the fair market value of the Shares on the date as of which the amount of tax to be withheld shall be determined in accordance with applicable tax laws (the Tax Date).
 
(iii)
 
Each Election to have Shares withheld must be made prior to the Tax Date.  If a Participant wishes to deliver Shares in payment of taxes, the Participant must so notify the Company prior to the Tax Date.
 
(c)
 
.
Transferability
 
(i)
 
No Awards granted hereunder may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise encumbered by a Participant except:
 
(A)
 
by will;
 
(B)
 
by the laws of descent and distribution;
 
(C)
 
pursuant to a domestic relations order, as defined in the Code, if permitted by the Committee and so provided in the Award Agreement or an amendment thereto; or
 
(D)
 
if permitted by the Committee and so provided in the Award Agreement or an amendment thereto, Options may be transferred or assigned (1) to Immediate Family Members, (2) to a partnership in which Immediate Family Members, or entities in which Immediate Family Members are the owners, members or beneficiaries, as appropriate, are the partners, (3) to a limited liability company in which Immediate Family Members, or entities in which Immediate Family Members are the owners, members or beneficiaries, as appropriate, are the members, or (4) to a trust for the benefit of Immediate Family Members; provided, however, that no more than a beneficial interest in a partners hip, limited liability company, or trust described in (2), (3) or (4) above may be owned by a person who is not an Immediate Family Member or by an entity that is not beneficially owned solely by Immediate Family Members.
de minimis
 
(ii)
 
To the extent that an Incentive Stock Option is permitted to be transferred during the lifetime of the Participant, it shall be treated thereafter as a Nonqualified Stock Option.  Any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation, or other disposition of Awards, or levy of attachment or similar process upon Awards not specifically permitted herein, shall be null and void and without effect.  The designation of a Designated Beneficiary shall not be a violation of this Section 12(c).
 
(d)
 
.  Any certificates or book or electronic entry ownership evidence for Shares or other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable federal or state laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
Share Certificates
 
 
12
 
 
(e)
 
.  Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting or continuing in effect other compensation arrangements, which may, but need not, provide for the grant of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, and other types of Awards provided for hereunder (subject to stockholder approval of any such arrangement if approval is required), and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
No Limit on Other Compensation Arrangements
 
(f)
 
.  The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of or as a consultant or adviser to the Company or any Subsidiary or in the employ of or as a consultant or adviser to any other entity providing services to the Company.  The Company or any Subsidiary or any such entity may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, or terminate any arrangement pursuant to which the Participant provides services to the Company or a Subsidiary, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.  ; No Eligible Individual or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Eligible Individuals, Participants or holders or beneficiaries of Awards.
No Right to Employment
 
(g)
 
.  The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan, any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and any Award Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
 
(h)
 
.  If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any Person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Person or Award and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.< /font>
Severability
 
(i)
 
.  Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and a Participant or any other Person.  To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.
No Trust or Fund Created
 
(j)
 
.  No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall determine whether cash, other securities or other property shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
 
(k)
 
.  The Company intends that Awards granted under the Plan, or any deferrals thereof, will comply with the requirements of Section 409A to the extent applicable.
Compliance with Law
 
 
13
 
 
(l)
 
.  Payment of cash or distribution of any Shares to which a Participant is entitled under any Award shall be made as provided in the Award Agreement.  Payment may be deferred at the option of the Participant if provided in the Award Agreement.
Deferral Permitted
 
(m)
 
.  Headings are given to the subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference.  Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.
Headings
 
 
.  Subject to Section 11(a), no Awards may be granted under the Plan after June 9, 2020, which is ten years after the date the Plan was last approved by the Companys stockholders; provided, however, that Awards granted prior to such date shall remain in effect until such Awards have either been satisfied, expired or canceled under the terms of the Plan, and any restrictions imposed on Shares in connection with their issuance under the Plan have lapsed.
Term of the Plan
 
 
14
 

Pursuant to the terms of the Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan), __________________________ (the Director), of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (the Company), was granted effective June 1, 20__ (the Grant Date), an option to purchase shares of the common stock of the Company (the Common Stock) and restricted stock units as hereinafter set forth.  Defined terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in Section 2 of the Plan.
[a director/an advisory director]
 
1.
 
Subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Director, as a matter of separate inducement and agreement in connection with services as a director or advisory director of the Company, and not in lieu of any salary or other compensation for the Directors services, is granted, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, the option to purchase from the Company all or any part of 10,000 shares of Common Stock (the Option) at an exercise price of $_____________ per share and 2,000 restricted stock units (RSUs).
[his/her]
 
2.
 
Unless the exercisability of the Option or vesting of the RSUs is accelerated pursuant to the terms of the Plan or this Notice, and subject to any other terms of the Plan, the Option granted hereunder shall become exercisable and the RSUs shall vest in installments as follows:
 
The Option granted hereunder shall terminate on June 1, 20__ unless terminated earlier as provided in the Plan or this Notice, and any portion of the Option not exercised on or before such date or such earlier termination, whichever shall first occur, may not thereafter be exercised.
 
3.
 
Additional Terms and Conditions of Options.
 
3.1
 
In order to exercise the Option, the holder of the Option shall give notice to the Company or its designee in the manner determined by the Company, specifying the
 
 
 
 
 
number of shares to be purchased and accompanied by payment in full of the aggregate exercise price thereof, as provided in the Plan.
 
3.2
  
(a) For purposes of this Section 3.2, if the Director continues to provide services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company pursuant to a consulting or other arrangement, the Director will not cease to be an Eligible Individual until such time as the Director no longer provides such services.
 
(b)
 
If the Director ceases to be an Eligible Individual for any reason other than death, disability or retirement from the Board, the Options granted hereunder shall terminate except that any Options, to the extent then exercisable, may be exercised by the holder thereof within three months after the Director ceases to be an Eligible Individual, but not later than the termination date of the Option.
 
(c)
 
If the Director ceases to be an Eligible Individual by reason of the Directors disability or retirement from the Board, the Options granted hereunder shall terminate except that any Options, to the extent then exercisable or exercisable within one year thereafter, may be exercised by the holder thereof within three years after the Director ceases to be an Eligible Individual, but not later than the termination date of the Option.
 
(d)
 
If the Director dies while serving as an Eligible Individual, the Options granted hereunder shall terminate, except that any Options, to the extent exercisable by the holder thereof at the time of such death or exercisable within one year thereafter, may be exercised until the third anniversary of the date of such death, but not later than the termination date of the Option, by the holder thereof, the Directors estate, or the person designated in the Directors last will and testament, as appropriate.
 
(e)
 
If the Director dies after ceasing to be an Eligible Individual, the Options granted hereunder shall terminate, except that any Options, to the extent still outstanding and exercisable by the holder thereof at the time of such death, may be exercised until the third anniversary of the date the Director ceased to be an Eligible Individual, but not later than the termination date of the Option, by the holder thereof, the Directors estate, or the person designated in the Directors last will and testament, as appropriate.
 
4.
 
Additional Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units.
 
4.1
 
Subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth herein, each RSU represents the right to automatically receive from the Company, on the respective scheduled vesting date for such RSU, one share (a Share) of Common Stock, free of any restrictions and all cash, securities and property credited to or deposited in the Directors Dividend Equivalent Account (as defined in Section 4.3) with respect to such RSU.
 
4.2
 
Except as provided in Section 4.3, an RSU shall not entitle the Director to any incidents of ownership (including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) (a) in any Share until the RSU shall vest and the Director shall be issued a Share to which such RSU relates nor (b) in any cash, securities or property credited to or deposited in a Dividend Equivalent Account related to such RSU until such RSU vests.
 
 
2
 
 
4.3
 
From and after the Grant Date of an RSU until the issuance of the Share payable in respect of such RSU, the Director shall be credited, as of the payment date therefor, with (a) the amount of any cash dividends and (b) the amount equal to the Fair Market Value of any Shares, securities, or other property distributed or distributable in respect of one share of Common Stock to which the Director would have been entitled had the Director been a record holder of one share of Common Stock at all times from the Grant Date to such issuance date (a Property Distribution).  All such credits shall be made notionally to a dividend equivalent account (a Dividend Equivalent Account) established for the Director with respect to all RSUs granted with the same vesting date.  All credits to a Dividend Equivalent Account for the Director shall be notionally increased by the Account Rate (as hereinafter defined), compounded quarterly, from and after the applicable date of credit until paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan and this Notice.  The Account Rate shall be the prime commercial lending rate announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank or by another major national bank headquartered in New York, New York designated by the Committee.  The Committee may, in its discretion, deposit in the Participants Dividend Equivalent Account the securities or property comprising any Property Distribution in lieu of crediting such Dividend Equivalent Account with the Fair Market Value thereof.  For purposes of this Notice, Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock or any other security shall be the closing per share or secu rity sale price on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange-Listed Stocks on the date in question or, if there are no reported sales on such date, on the last preceding date on which any reported sale occurred.  If on the date in question the shares of Common Stock or other securities in question are not listed on such Composite Tape, the fair market value shall be the closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange on such date or, if no sales occurred on such date, on the last previous day on which a sale on the New York Stock Exchange is reported.
 
4.4
  
(a)           Except as otherwise set forth in Section 4.4(b), all unvested RSUs, all amounts credited to the Directors Dividend Equivalent Account with respect to such RSUs, and all securities and property comprising Property Distributions deposited in such Dividend Equivalent Account with respect to such RSUs shall immediately be forfeited on the date the Director ceases to be an Eligible Individual, unless the Director continues providing services to the Company pursuant to a consulting or other arrangement.
 
(b)
 
If the Director ceases to be an Eligible Individual by reason of the Directors death, retirement or disability (as defined in Section 4.4(d)), all unvested RSUs and all amounts credited to or property deposited in the Directors Dividend Equivalent Account with respect to such RSUs shall vest as of the date the Director ceases to be an Eligible Individual.
 
(c)
 
For purposes of this Section 4.4, if the Director continues to provide services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company pursuant to a consulting or other arrangement, the Director will not cease to be an Eligible Individual until such time as the Director no longer provides such services.
 
(d)
 
For purposes of this Section 4.4, a disability shall have occurred if the Director is (i) unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving
 
 
3
 
 
income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Directors employer.
 
5.
 
Change of Control.
 
5.1
 
(a)           For purposes of this Notice, Change of Control means (capitalized terms not otherwise defined will have the meanings ascribed to them in paragraph (b) below):
 
(1)
 
the acquisition by any Person together with all Affiliates of such Person, of Beneficial Ownership of the Threshold Percentage or more; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 5.1(a)(1), the following will not constitute a Change of Control:
 
(A)
 
any acquisition (other than a Business Combination, as defined below, that constitutes a Change of Control under Section 5.1(a)(3) hereof) of Common Stock directly from the Company,
 
(B)
 
any acquisition of Common Stock by the Company or its subsidiaries,
 
(C)
 
any acquisition of Common Stock by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation or other entity controlled by the Company, or
 
(D)
 
any acquisition of Common Stock pursuant to a Business Combination that does not constitute a Change of Control under Section 5.1(a)(3) hereof; or
 
(2)
 
individuals who as of the effective date of this Agreement, constitute the Board (the Incumbent Board) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement whose election, or nomination for election by the Companys shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board will be considered a member of the Incumbent Board, unless such individuals initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or any other actual or threatened s olicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board; or
 
(3)
 
the consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation (including a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company), or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a Business Combination), in each case, unless, immediately following such Business Combination:
 
(A)
 
the individuals and entities who were the Beneficial Owners of the Company Voting Stock immediately prior to such Business Combination have direct or indirect Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the then outstanding shares of common stock, and more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, of the Company, and
 
 
4
 
 
(B)
 
no Person together with all Affiliates of such Person (excluding the Company and any employee benefit plan or related trust of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company) Beneficially Owns 30% or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company, and
 
(C)
 
at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Company were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, and of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(4)
 
approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
(b)
 
As used in this Section 5, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
 
(1)
 
Affiliate:  Affiliate means a Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, another specified Person.
 
(2)
 
Beneficial Owner:  Beneficial Owner (and variants thereof), with respect to a security, means a Person who, directly or indirectly (through any contract, understanding, relationship or otherwise), has or shares (A) the power to vote, or direct the voting of, the security, and/or (B) the power to dispose of, or to direct the disposition of, the security.
 
(3)
 
Company Voting Stock:  Company Voting Stock means any capital stock of the Company that is then entitled to vote for the election of directors.
 
(4)
 
Majority Shares:  Majority Shares means the number of shares of Company Voting Stock that could elect a majority of the directors of the Company if all directors were to be elected at a single meeting.
 
(5)
 
Person:  Person means a natural person or entity, and will also mean the group or syndicate created when two or more Persons act as a syndicate or other group (including without limitation a partnership, limited partnership, joint venture or other joint undertaking) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, or disposing of a security, except that Person will not include an underwriter temporarily holding a security pursuant to an offering of the security.
 
(6)
 
Threshold Percentage:  Threshold Percentage means 30% of all then outstanding Common Stock.
 
5.2
 
Upon a Change of Control, or immediately prior to the closing of a transaction that will result in a Change of Control if consummated, all outstanding Options granted pursuant to this Notice shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable.  If a Change of Control also qualifies as a change in the ownership of the Company, a change in the effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the
 
 
5
 
 
assets of the Company under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and any related implementing regulations or guidance, then all outstanding RSUs shall become fully vested.
 
5.3
 
No later than 30 days after a Change of Control, the Committee, acting in its sole discretion without the consent or approval of any Participant (and notwithstanding any removal or attempted removal of some or all of the members thereof as directors or Committee members), may act to effect one or more of the alternatives listed below, which may vary among individual Participants and which may vary among Options and RSUs held by any individual Participant:
 
(a)
 
require that all outstanding Options be exercised on or before a specified date (before or after such Change of Control) fixed by the Committee, after which specified date all unexercised Options and all rights of the Director thereunder shall terminate,
 
(b)
 
make such equitable adjustments to Awards then outstanding as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Change of Control (provided, however, that the Committee may determine in its sole discretion that no adjustment is necessary),
 
(c)
 
provide for mandatory conversion or exchange of some or all of the outstanding Options held by the Director as of a date, before or after such Change of Control, specified by the Committee, in which event such Options shall be deemed automatically cancelled and the Company shall pay, or cause to be paid, to the Director an amount of cash per share equal to the excess, if any, of the Change of Control Value of the shares subject to such Option, as defined and calculated below, over the per share exercise price of such Options or, in lieu of such cash payment, the issuance of Common Stock or securities of an acquiring entity having a Fair Market Value equal to such excess, or
 
(d)
 
provide that thereafter, upon any exercise of an Option that entitles the holder to receive Common Stock, the holder shall be entitled to purchase or receive under such Option, in lieu of the number of shares of Common Stock then covered by such Option, the number and class of shares of stock or other securities or property (including, without limitation, cash) to which the holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing for the reorganization, share exchange, merger, consolidation or asset sale, if, immediately prior to such Change of Control, the holder had been the record owner of the number of shares of Common Stock then covered by such Option.
 
5.4
 
For the purposes of any conversions or exchanges under paragraph (c) of Section 5.3, the Change of Control Value shall equal the amount determined by whichever of the following items is applicable:
 
(a)
 
the per share price to be paid to holders of Common Stock in any such merger, consolidation or other reorganization,
 
(b)
 
the price per share offered to holders of Common Stock in any tender offer or exchange offer whereby a Change of Control takes place, or
 
(c)
 
in all other events, the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock, as determined by the Committee as of the date determined by the Committee to be the date of conversion or exchange.
 
 
6
 
 
5.5
 
In the event that the consideration offered to stockholders of the Company in any transaction described in this Section 5 consists of anything other than cash, the Committee shall determine the fair cash equivalent of the portion of the consideration offered that is other than cash.
 
6.
 
The Option and the RSUs granted hereunder are not transferable by the Director otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
7.
 
All notices hereunder shall be in writing, and if to the Company, shall be delivered personally to the Secretary of the Company or mailed to its principal office, 333 North Central Avenue, Phoenix, Arizona 85004, addressed to the attention of the Secretary; and if to the Director, shall be delivered personally or mailed to the Director at the address on file with the Company.  Such addresses may be changed at any time by notice from one party to the other.
 
8.
 
The terms of this Notice shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Director, the Company and the successors and assigns of the Company and, to the extent provided in the Plan and in this Notice, the legal representatives of the Director.
 
9.
 
This Notice is subject to the provisions of the Plan.  The Plan may at any time be amended by the board of directors of the Company (the Board), and this Notice may at any time be amended by the Committee provided that no amendment to this Notice that materially impairs the benefits provided to the Director hereunder may be made without the Directors consent.  Subject to any applicable provisions of the Companys by-laws or of the Plan, any applicable determinations, orders, resolutions or other actions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Company and the holder of the Option and the RSUs granted hereunder.
 
 By:  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                                  
 
7
 


