FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20100721171201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated July 21, 2010, announcing its second-quarter and six-month 2010 results and referencing supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its July 21, 2010, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  July 21, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
1
 
PHOENIX, AZ, July 21, 2010  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported second-quarter 2010 net income attributable to common stock of $649 million, $1.40 per share, compared with net income of $588 million, $1.38 per share, for the second quarter of 2009.  For the six months ended June 30, 2010, FCX reported net income attributable to common stock of $1.5 billion, $3.40 per share, compared with $631 million, $1.54 per share, in the 2009 six-month period.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our second-quarter results reflect continued strong production and cost management throughout our global portfolio of mining operations.  During the quarter, we executed our operating plans effectively, strengthened our balance sheet and advanced projects to enhance our future growth options.  We remain positive about the outlook for our business based on the fundamentals of global supply and demand.  We anticipate generating strong cash flows, which would enable us to invest in future growth and return cash to shareholders.
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
OPERATIONS
 
  Second-quarter 2010 consolidated copper sales of 914 million pounds were higher than the April 2010 estimate of 830 million pounds but lower than the second-quarter 2009 copper sales of 1.1 billion pounds.  The variance to the April 2010 estimate primarily reflects favorable production performance in North and South America and Indonesia and the timing of shipments, principally in North America.  The variance to the 2009 period primarily reflects the anticipated lower copper ore grades at Grasberg resulting from planned mine sequencing and anticipated lower sales from South America mines, partially offset by higher sales from the Tenke Fungurume mine in Africa.
Consolidated.
 
Second-quarter 2010 consolidated gold sales of 298 thousand ounces were higher than the April 2010 estimate of 270 thousand ounces but significantly lower than the second-quarter 2009 gold sales of 837 thousand ounces.  The favorable variance to the April 2010 estimate primarily reflects timing of mine sequencing at Grasberg.  The variance to the 2009 period primarily reflects anticipated lower gold ore grades at Grasberg resulting from planned mine sequencing.
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales totaled 16 million pounds in each of the second quarter periods.  The second-quarter 2010 sales were higher than the April 2010 estimate of 15 million pounds because of improved demand in the chemicals sector.
 
Consolidated unit site production and delivery costs averaged $1.41 per pound of copper in the second quarter of 2010, compared with second-quarter 2009 unit costs of $1.04 per pound.  Second-quarter 2010 unit net cash costs, net of by-product credits, averaged $0.97 per pound, compared with $0.43 per pound in the year-ago period.  The higher unit net cash costs primarily reflected anticipated lower copper and gold volumes at Grasberg and South America, partly offset by higher by-product gold and molybdenum prices.
 
Assuming average prices of $1,200 per ounce for gold and $14 per pound for molybdenum for the second half of 2010 and using current 2010 sales and costs estimates; consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits and including Tenke Fungurume) are expected to average approximately $0.86 per pound for the year 2010.  Quarterly unit net cash costs will vary with fluctuations in sales volumes.  Unit net cash costs for 2010 would change by approximately $0.01 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the second half of 2010 and by approximately $0.005 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the second half of 2010.
 
  FCX has significant reserves and future development opportunities within its portfolio of assets.  At December 31, 2009, in addition to estimated proven and probable reserves of 104 billion pounds of copper (determined using a long-term average price of $1.60 per pound for copper), FCX identified estimated mineralized material (assessed using a long-term average price of $2.00 per pound for copper) with incremental contained copper of an additional 122 billion pounds.  FCX continues to evaluate opportunities to convert this material into reserves, future production volumes and cash flow.
Development Activities.
 
FCX is undertaking major development projects, including the development of the El Abra sulfide reserves and the massive underground ore bodies at Grasberg.  FCX is also advancing development activities at the Climax primary molybdenum project.
 
In addition, studies are under way to evaluate the potential to more than double the concentrator capacity at the large Cerro Verde mine, a major mill project in the El Abra district, various mill projects to process significant sulfide ore in North America and staged expansion options at Tenke Fungurume.  The advancement of these studies will provide flexibility in initiating expansion projects as market conditions warrant, enabling FCX to continue to maintain its position as one of the largest copper producers in the world.
 
 
3
 
  FCX operates six open-pit copper mines in North America (Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona and Tyrone in New Mexico).  By-product molybdenum is produced primarily at Sierrita and Bagdad.  All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.
North America Copper Mines.
 
 
 
 
Second-quarter 2010 consolidated copper sales in North America of 289 million pounds were higher than second-quarter 2009 sales of 281 million pounds.
 
For the year 2010, FCX expects sales from North America copper mines to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper, compared with 1.2 billion pounds of copper for 2009.  FCX is increasing mining and milling rates at its Morenci mine and is restarting its Miami mine, which are expected to result in higher production in future periods (see Operating and Development Activities below).
 
North America unit site production and delivery costs were higher in the second quarter of 2010, compared with the second quarter of 2009, primarily because of higher input costs and increased mining and milling activities at certain mines.  Second-quarter 2010 unit net cash costs benefited from higher by-product credits primarily because of higher molybdenum prices.
 
Based on current operating plans, assuming an average molybdenum price of $14 per pound for the second half of 2010 and using current 2010 sales and costs estimates, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North America copper mines would approximate $1.24 per pound of copper for the year 2010.  Unit net cash costs for 2010 would change by approximately $0.02 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the second half of 2010.
 
  At Morenci, FCX has commenced a staged ramp up from the current mining rate of 450,000 metric tons of ore per day to 635,000 metric tons per day.  In addition, FCX restarted the Morenci mill in March 2010 to process available sulfide material currently being mined.  Mill throughput averaged 28,000 metric tons of ore per day during the second quarter of 2010 and is expected to increase to approximately 50,000 metric tons per day by 2011.  The increased mining and milling activities are expected to expose additional ore and enable copper production to increase by approximately 125 million pounds annually beginning in 2011.  Further increases to Morencis mining rate are being evaluated.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
 
4
 
 
FCX has initiated mining activities at the Miami mine in Arizona to improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site.  During an approximate five-year mine life, FCX expects to ramp up production at Miami to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by the second half of 2011.  FCX is investing $40 million in this project, which is benefiting from the use of existing mining equipment.
 
FCX is advancing plans to construct a sulphur burner at Safford, which will provide a more cost effective source of sulphuric acid used in solution extraction/electrowinning operations and lower transportation costs.  This project is expected to be complete during 2011 at a capital investment of approximately $150 million.
 
FCX is evaluating the restart of mining and milling activities at the Chino mine in New Mexico, which were suspended in late 2008 in response to global economic conditions.  The preliminary economics of the project appear attractive and would increase copper production by approximately 150 to 200 million pounds per year.  At December 31, 2009, Chinos reserves, excluding metal in stockpiles, totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper (determined using a long-term average price of $1.60 per pound for copper) and reserves would increase with higher prices.
 
Operating plans at the other North America sites are being assessed and adjustments will be made based on market conditions.
 
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine currently producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.  All operations in South America are consolidated in FCXs financial stat ements.
South America Mining.
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in South America totaled 311 million pounds in the second quarter of 2010, 14 percent lower than second-quarter 2009 sales, primarily reflecting lower ore grades at Candelaria and timing of shipments at Cerro Verde.
 
For the year 2010, FCX expects South America sales of 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 90 thousand ounces of gold for 2009.  Projected sales volumes for 2010 are lower than 2009 primarily because of the impacts of anticipated lower ore grades, principally at El Abra in connection with the depletion of the oxide ore resource and the transition to the sulfide deposit.
 
South America unit site production and delivery costs were higher in the second quarter of 2010, compared with the second quarter of 2009, primarily because of lower sales volumes.  Partly offsetting these higher unit costs were higher molybdenum credits and lower treatment charges.
 
Using current 2010 sales and costs estimates, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum and gold credits, for its South America mining operations would approximate $1.18 per pound of copper for the year 2010.
 
  FCX is engaged in construction activities associated with the development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra to extend its mine life by over 10 years.  Production from the sulfide ore, which will ramp up to approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year, is expected to begin in 2012 and will replace the currently depleting oxide copper production.  The capital investment for this project is expected to total $725 million through 2015, including $535 million for the initial phase of the project expected to be completed in 2012.  In addition, FCX has initiated studies for a potential milling operation to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
FCX is completing a project to optimize throughput at the existing Cerro Verde concentrator.  The project, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, is expected to increase mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons per day resulting in incremental annual production of approximately 30 million pounds of copper.  The capital investment for this project is expected to total approximately $50 million.
 
In addition, FCX is evaluating a large scale concentrator expansion at Cerro Verde.  Reserve additions in recent years have provided opportunities potentially to more than double the existing facilitys capacity.  A feasibility study is expected to be completed in the first half of 2011.
 
  Through its 90.64 percent owned and wholly consolidated subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesia Mining.
 
 
6
 
 
 
As expected, Indonesia reported lower copper and gold sales in the second quarter of 2010, compared to the second quarter of 2009, as a result of sequencing of mining in a lower ore-grade section of the Grasberg open pit.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in fluctuations in quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.
 
PT-FI has revised its mine plans to incorporate precautionary remedial activities and geotechnical considerations affecting a relatively high-grade section of the Grasberg open pit previously scheduled to be mined in 2010 and 2011.  The impact of these mine plan changes results in the deferral of approximately 130 million pounds of copper and 270,000 ounces of gold, net to PT-FI's interest, from the 2010 to 2014 period to the 2015 to 2016 period.  The revised plans, which are subject to ongoing review and optimization, reflect timing differences and do not result in significant changes to reserves or ultimate production from the open pit.
 
FCX expects Indonesia sales of 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.7 million ounces of gold for the year 2010, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold for 2009.  Anticipated changes in ore grades throughout the year are expected to result in significant variability in quarterly volumes.  Mine sequencing at Grasberg is expected to result in higher copper and gold grades beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
Indonesia unit site production and delivery costs were higher in the second quarter of 2010, compared with the second quarter of 2009, primarily because of anticipated lower copper volumes for the 2010 period.  Unit site production and delivery costs will vary with fluctuations in production volumes because of the primarily fixed nature of PT-FIs cost structure.  Gold credits were lower in the second quarter of 2010 because of lower gold volumes, which also resulted in higher unit net cash costs in the second quarter of 2010.
 
Assuming an average gold price of $1,200 per ounce for the second half of 2010 and using current 2010 sales and costs estimates, FCX expects PT-FIs average unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, to approximate $0.14 per pound for the year 2010.  Unit net cash costs for 2010 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the second half of 2010.  Quarterly unit net cash costs will vary significantly with variations in quarterly metal sales volumes.
 
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and is the operator of the project.  Construction activities on the approximately $2 billion initial project were completed in 2009.  Production of copper cathode commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted rates in September 2009.  The cobalt plant and sulphuric acid plant were commissioned in the third quarter of 2009.  Tenke Fungurume continues to address start-up and quality issues in the cobalt circuit and expects to implement corrective actions over the next several quarters.  Based on the 10-year average of current design operation s, Tenke Fungurume expects to produce 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year.  Higher grades of cobalt in the initial years are expected to result in higher than life-of-mine average annual cobalt production volumes.
Africa Mining.
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCX expects Tenke Fungurume sales of approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2010, compared with 130 million pounds of copper and 3 million pounds of cobalt for 2009.
 
During the second quarter of 2010, Tenke Fungurumes unit site production and delivery costs averaged $1.27 per pound of copper and its unit net cash costs, net of cobalt by-product credits, averaged $0.79 per pound of copper.
 
FCX has recently updated its cost forecast for Tenke Fungurume to incorporate revised modeling for estimated sulphuric acid consumption, increased input costs and actual cost history, and increased government fees and administrative costs associated with the complex nature of the operating environment in the DRC.  Assuming an average cobalt price of $12 per pound for the second half of 2010 and the year 2011, average unit net cash costs are expected to approximate $0.93 per pound of copper for the year 2010 and $0.80 per pound of copper for the year 2011.  Each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt would impact unit net cash costs by approximately $0.10 per pound of copper.
 
  FCX continues to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective district at Tenke Fungurume and expects its ore reserves to increase significantly over time.  These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion.  FCX is completing studies to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity.  A range of expansion options are being considered.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
The milling facilities, which were designed to produce at a capacity rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, have been performing above capacity in recent months.  Tenke Fungurume is procuring additional mining equipment, which will enable additional high-grade material to be mined and processed.  Based on these enhancements to the mine plan and an expected mill throughput rate of 10,000 metric tons of ore per day, FCX estimates copper production will increase from the current level of 250 million pounds per annum to a rate approximating 290 million pounds per annum during 2011.
 
  FCX is continuing to work with the DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review and a number of administrative disputes.  FCX believes its contract is fair and equitable, complies with Congolese law and is enforceable without modification.
Other Matters.
 
 
8
 
  FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at its wholly owned Henderson underground mine in Colorado and sells by-product molybdenum from its North and South America copper mines.
Molybdenum.
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales from the Henderson mine and by-product mines totaled 16 million pounds in each of the second quarter periods.  Molybdenum markets were significantly affected beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 by the downturn in global economic conditions, resulting in FCXs operating its Henderson mine at reduced rates throughout 2009.  Improved market conditions have resulted in an increase in Henderson rates to approximately 90 percent capacity.
 
For the year 2010, FCX expects molybdenum sales from its mines to approximate 63 million pounds (includes by-product production of approximately 30 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines), compared with 58 million pounds in 2009 (includes by-product production of 27 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines).  The weekly average Molybdenum Dealer Oxide price as of July 20, 2010, was $13.88 per pound.
Metals Week
 
Unit net cash costs at the Henderson primary molybdenum mine were lower in the second quarter of 2010, compared with the second quarter of 2009, primarily because of higher volumes.  Using current 2010 sales estimates, FCX expects average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine to approximate $6.25 per pound of molybdenum for the year 2010.
 
  FCX is monitoring market conditions to determine the timing for restarting construction of the Climax molybdenum project, which was suspended in the fourth quarter of 2008.  FCX believes that this project is one of the most attractive primary molybdenum development projects in the world, with large scale production capacity, attractive cash costs and future growth options.  The Climax mine would have an initial annual design capacity of 30 million pounds with significant expansion options.  FCX has continued to advance the project to prepare for resumption of construction activities as market conditions improve.  As of June 30, 2010, the estimated remaining costs for the project approximate $50 0 million.  FCX is investing $60 million to advance certain construction activities during the next several months to provide flexibility in start-up timing options.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
9
 
 
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support the development of additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where it currently operates.  Significantly expanded drilling activities in recent years have been successful in generating meaningful reserve additions and in identifying potential additional mineral resources adjacent to existing ore bodies.  Results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad in North America; Cerro Verde and El Abra in South America and in the Tenke Fungurume district.
 
Exploration spending in 2010 is estimated to approximate $120 million, compared with $72 million in 2009.  Exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential in FCXs existing mineral districts.
 
PROVISIONAL PRICING AND OTHER
 
For the first six months of 2010, approximately 47 percent of FCXs mined copper was sold in concentrate, 27 percent as cathode and 26 percent as rod from North America operations.  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.  The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period generally one to four months from the shipment date, primarily based on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) prices.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorde d copper price for the period.
 
At March 31, 2010, 372 million pounds of copper sales at FCXs copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) were provisionally priced at an average of $3.53 per pound.  Unfavorable adjustments to the March 31, 2010, provisionally priced copper sales decreased second-quarter 2010 consolidated revenues by $169 million ($72 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.15 per share), and favorable adjustments to the March 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales increased second-quarter 2009 consolidated revenues by $43 million ($13 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.03 per share).  Unfavorable adjustments to the December 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales decreased consolidated revenues in the first six months of 2010 by $23 million ($9 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.02 per share), and favorable adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales increased consolidated revenues in the first six months of 2009 by $132 million ($62 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.15 per share).
 
LME copper prices averaged $3.18 per pound during the second quarter of 2010, compared with FCXs recorded average price of $3.06 per pound.  At June 30, 2010, FCX had copper sales of 364 million pounds of copper at its copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) priced at an average of $2.95 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change from the June 30, 2010, average price for provisionally priced copper sales would have an approximate $12 million effect on FCXs 2010 net income attributable to common stock.  The LME closing settlement price for copper on July 20, 2010, was $2.96 per pound.
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on its PT-FI and South America sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until final sales to third parties occur.  FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI and South America concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income attributable to common stock totaled $137 million at December 31, 2009, $157 million at March 31, 2010, and $93 million at June 30, 2010.  Changes in FCXs net deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in additions to net income attributable to common stock totaling $20 million, $0.04 per share, in the second quarter of 2010 and reductions of $28 million, $0.06 per share, in the first six months of 2010.  For the 2009 periods, changes in FCXs net deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in additions to net income attributable to common stock totaling $13
 
 
10
 
 
million, $0.03 per share, for the second quarter and reductions of $3 million, $0.01 per share, for the first six months of 2009.  Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in FCXs net deferred profits and quarterly earnings.
 
CASH FLOWS, CASH, DEBT and EQUITY
 
Operating cash flows totaled $1.1 billion for the second quarter of 2010, net of $173 million of working capital requirements, and $2.9 billion for the first six months of 2010, including $107 million from working capital sources.  Capital expenditures totaled $296 million for the second quarter of 2010 and $527 million for the first six months of 2010.
 
At June 30, 2010, FCX had consolidated cash of $3.0 billion.  Net of noncontrolling interests share, taxes and other costs, cash available to parent company totaled $2.2 billion as shown below (in billions):
 
 
At June 30, 2010, FCX had $4.8 billion in debt.  FCX had no borrowings and $42 million of letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facilities, resulting in total availability of approximately $1.5 billion at June 30, 2010.
 
During the second quarter of 2010, FCX reduced debt by $1.3 billion, including the April 1 redemption of $1.0 billion of outstanding Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2015 and repayment of $278 million of its senior debt through open-market purchases at a cost of $302 million.  From January 1, 2009, through June 30, 2010, FCX has repaid approximately $2.6 billion in debt (approximately 35 percent of outstanding debt on January 1, 2009), resulting in estimated annual interest savings of approximately $172 million.
st
 
FCXs debt maturities through 2012 are indicated in the table below (in millions).
 
At June 30, 2010, FCX had 470 million common shares outstanding.  In the second quarter of 2010, FCXs 6% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock converted into 39 million shares of FCX common stock (conversion rate equal to 1.3716 shares of FCX common stock).
 
OUTLOOK
 
Projected sales volumes for 2010 approximate 3.8 billion pounds of copper, 1.8 million ounces of gold and 63 million pounds of molybdenum, including 970 million pounds of copper, 410 thousand ounces of gold and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in the third quarter of 2010.  Mining sequencing at Grasberg is resulting in significant fluctuations in quarterly sales of copper and gold during 2010.
 
Using current 2010 sales estimates and assuming average prices of $3.00 per pound of copper, $1,200 per ounce of gold and $14 per pound of molybdenum for the second half of 2010, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to exceed $5 billion in 2010.  The impact of price changes in the second half of 2010 on FCXs 2010 operating cash flows would approximate $150 million
 
 
11
 
 
for each $0.10 per pound change for copper, $30 million for each $50 per ounce change for gold and $25 million for each $2 per pound change for molybdenum.
 
FCXs capital expenditures are currently estimated to approximate $1.7 billion for 2010.  Capital expenditures for major projects in 2010 are expected to approximate $0.8 billion, which primarily includes underground development activities at Grasberg, the sulfide ore project at El Abra and investments in a new sulphur burner facility at Safford.  Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors.
 
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder value through pursuing development projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.
 
In April 2010, FCXs Board of Directors authorized an increase in the cash dividend on common stock from an annual rate of $0.60 per share to $1.20 per share ($0.30 per share quarterly).  The first quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share was declared on June 24, 2010, and is payable on August 1, 2010.
 
There are 23.7 million shares remaining under FCXs 30 million share open-market share purchase program.  The Board will continue to review FCXs financial policy on an ongoing basis.
 
                                           -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the DRC.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at www.fcx.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which FCX discusses its performance in the future.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and potential share purchases.  The words anticipates, may,  ;can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions and/or statements that are not historical facts, in each case as they relate to FCX or its management, are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of FCXs Board of Directors and will depend on FCXs financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.  This press release also includes forward-looking statements regarding mineralized material not included in reserves.  The mineralized material described in this press release will not qualify as reserves until comprehensive engineering studies establish their economic feasibility.  Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves.
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
In making any forward-looking statements, the person making them believes that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions.  FCX cautions readers that those statements are not guarantees of future performance and its actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements.  Important factors that can cause FCXs actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, potential outcomes of the contract review process and resolution of administrative disputes in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather-related risks, labor relatio ns, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on FCXs results of operations or financial condition.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements in this press release and does not intend to update the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VII, which is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.
 
12
 
 
A copy of this release is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.  A conference call with securities analysts about second-quarter 2010 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com.  A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, August 20, 2010.
 
 
13
 
 
 
I
 
 
 
 
II
 
 
 
III
 
 
 
IV
 
 
V
 
 
 
VI
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations.  FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations.  This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by o ther companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method.  FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations.  In the co-product method presentations, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
In both the by-product and the co-product method calculations, FCX shows adjustments to copper revenues for prior period open sales as separate line items.  Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales.  Noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, lower of cost or market inventory adjustments, write-offs of equipment or unusual charges.  They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs.  Gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method.
 
 
VII
 
 
 
VIII
 
 
 
IX
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
XI
 
 
 
XII
 
 
 
XIII
 
 
 
XIV
 
 
XV
 
 
XVI
 
 
 
XVII
 
 
 
XVIII
 
 
 
XIX
 
 
 
XX
 
 
 
XXI
 
 
 
XXII
 
 
 
XXIII
 
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs income tax provision for the second quarter of 2010 resulted from taxes on international operations ($382 million) and U.S. operations ($51 million).  FCXs income tax provision for the first six months of 2010 resulted from taxes on international operations ($979 million) and U.S. operations ($132 million).  As presented in the table below, FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate was 35 percent for the first six months of 2010, which is consistent with the U.S. federal statutory rate.
FCXs income tax provision for the second quarter of 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($538 million) and U.S. operations ($4 million).  FCXs income tax provision for the first six months of 2009 resulted from taxes on international operations ($868 million) and U.S. operations ($5 million).  During the first half of 2009, FCX did not record a benefit for losses generated in the U.S., and those losses could not be used to offset income generated from international operations.  These factors combined with the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 43 percent, caused FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate of 47 percent for the first six months of 2009 to be higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent.
Summaries of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes follow (in millions, except percentages):
 
 
 
 
XXIV
 
FCX has organized its operations into five primary divisions  North America copper mines, South America mining, Indonesia mining, Africa mining and Molybdenum operations.  Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis.  Therefore, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines.  Operating segments that meet certain thresholds are reportable segments.  Further discussion of the reportable segments included in FCXs primary operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segments  Rod & Refining and Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining  follows.
  FCX has six operating copper mines in North America  Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford, Miami and Tyrone.  The North America copper mines include Morenci as a reportable segment.  Other North America copper mines include FCXs other southwestern U.S. copper mines, including mines on care-and-maintenance status.  In addition to copper, the Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum concentrates as a by-product.
North America Copper Mines.
  South America mining includes four operating copper mines  Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  South America mining includes Cerro Verde as a reportable segment.  In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a by-product.  Other South America mining includes FCXs Chilean copper mines.  In addition to copper, the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as by-products.
South America.
  Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district.  PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver.
Indonesia.
  Africa mining includes the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concession in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  The Tenke Fungurume mine produces copper cathode and cobalt hydroxide.  Copper cathode production commenced in March 2009 and the first copper cathode was sold in the second quarter of 2009.  The cobalt plant and sulphuric acid plant were commissioned in the third quarter of 2009.
Africa.
  The Molybdenum segment includes the Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities.  The Molybdenum segment also includes a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from the Henderson mine as well as from FCXs North and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by-product.
Molybdenum.
  The Rod & Refining segment consists of copper conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery, three rod mills and a specialty copper products facility.  These operations process copper produced at FCXs North America mines and purchased copper into copper cathode, rod and custom copper shapes.  At times these operations refine copper and produce copper rod and shapes for customers on a toll basis.
Rod & Refining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
  Intersegment sales between FCXs operations are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale.  Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Intersegment Sales
.
  FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to the operating divisions and individual segments.  However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated.  All U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level, whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable mine or operation.  In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating divisions or segments.  Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations tha t may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
Allocations.
 
XXV
 
 
 
XXVI
 
 
 
XXVII
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


