FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20100517171233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 3.03.  
Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
 
(a)  The information set forth in Item 5.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03.  
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a)  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (the Company) previously reported that on February 2, 2010, its Board of Directors adopted a resolution to allow the Rights Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2000, between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC, successor to ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C., as Rights Agent (the Rights Agreement), as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Rights Agreement, effective as of February 26, 2002, to expire in accordance with its terms.
The Rights Agreement expired on May 16, 2010.  As a result, each outstanding share of the Companys common stock, par value $0.10 per share (the Common Stock), is no longer accompanied by a right to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of the Companys Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (the Right).  The holders of Common Stock are not entitled to any payment as a result of the expiration of the Rights Agreement and the Rights issued thereunder.
In connection with the expiration of the Rights Agreement, on May 17, 2010, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination (the Certificate of Elimination) with the Secretary of State of Delaware to eliminate all references in the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the Companys Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock.  A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  
Exhibits.
The Exhibit included as part of this Current Report is listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Number
 
 
 

Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the Company), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL), hereby certifies as follows:
 
1.
 
That the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board), pursuant to Section 151 of the DGCL and the authority granted in the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation), by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of 2,500,000 shares of a series of Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (the Series A Preferred Stock), established the voting powers, preferences and relative participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and authorized the filing of a certificate of designations (the Series A Certificate of Designations) with respect to such Series A Preferred Stock, which Series A Certificate of Designations was filed by the Company in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 3, 2000.
 
2.
 
That no shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued.
 
3.
 
That at a meeting of the Board, the following resolutions were adopted:
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT
RESOLVED, That promptly after May 16, 2010 the appropriate officers of the corporation are hereby authorized and directed to file a Certificate of Elimination with the office of the Secretary of State of Delaware setting forth a copy of this resolution whereupon all reference to the Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (as established by a Certificate of Designations filed in the office of the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 3, 2000, no shares of which are outstanding and no shares of which will be issued) shall be eliminated from the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the corporation; and further
RESOLVED, That each officer of the corporation is hereby authorized and empowered, in the name and on behalf of the corporation, from time to time to do and perform all such further acts and things and to execute and deliver all such instruments, documents, certificates and other papers as such officer may deem necessary or advisable in order to carry out and effectuate the intent and purposes of the foregoing resolutions.
4.
 
That accordingly, all references to the Series A Preferred Stock be, and they hereby are, eliminated from the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be signed by its duly authorized officer as of this 17th day of May, 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
 


