FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20101021172945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated October 21, 2010, announcing its third-quarter and nine-month 2010 results and referencing supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its web site that accompanied its October 21, 2010, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
FCX issued a press release dated October 21, 2010, announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its annual common stock dividend from $1.20 per share to $2.00 per share (see Exhibit 99.3).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
 
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  October 21, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
1
 
PHOENIX, AZ, October 21, 2010  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported third-quarter 2010 net income attributable to common stock of $1.2 billion, $2.49 per share, compared with net income of $925 million, $2.07 per share, for the third quarter of 2009.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, FCX reported net income attributable to common stock of $2.7 billion, $5.88 per share, compared with $1.6 billion, $3.70 per share, in the 2009 nine-month period.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our excellent third-quarter results reflect strong production and cost performance and positive pricing of our key commodities  copper, gold and molybdenum.  We continue to advance our future growth and expansion plans and are taking steps to increase near-term copper production in response to improved physical markets.  We are highly positive about the long-term outlook for our business and are well positioned with our world-scale portfolio of assets, financial strength, market leadership position and project pipeline to continue to generate strong returns for the benefit of shareholders.  Todays announced significant increase in our common stock dividend ref lects the companys positive performance and favorable outlook for our business.
 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPERATIONS
 
  Third-quarter 2010 consolidated copper sales of 1.1 billion pounds were higher than the July 2010 estimate of 970 million pounds and the third-quarter 2009 copper sales of 1.0 billion pounds.  The variance to the July 2010 estimate primarily reflects favorable production performance in Indonesia and the timing of shipments.  The variance to the 2009 period primarily reflects higher copper ore grades and mill throughput in South America, higher share of Grasberg volumes and a higher contribution from the Tenke Fungurume mine in Africa, partially offset by lower ore grades in North America.
Consolidated.
 
Third-quarter 2010 consolidated gold sales of 497 thousand ounces were higher than the July 2010 estimate of 410 thousand ounces but significantly lower than the third-quarter 2009 gold sales of 706 thousand ounces.  The variance to the July 2010 estimate primarily reflects favorable production performance at Grasberg.  The variance to the 2009 period primarily reflects lower gold ore grades at Grasberg resulting from planned mine sequencing.
 
Third-quarter 2010 consolidated molybdenum sales of 17 million pounds were higher than the July 2010 estimate of 15 million pounds and the third-quarter 2009 molybdenum sales of 16 million pounds because of improved demand in the chemicals sector.
 
As anticipated, consolidated unit site production and delivery costs of $1.38 per pound of copper in the third quarter of 2010 were higher than the third-quarter 2009 unit costs of $1.15 per pound.  Third-quarter 2010 unit net cash costs, net of by-product credits, averaged $0.82 per pound, compared with $0.50 per pound in the year-ago period.  The higher unit net cash costs in the 2010 period primarily reflect increased input costs (including materials, labor and energy) and lower by-product gold credits.
 
Assuming average prices of $1,300 per ounce for gold and $15 per pound for molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2010 and using current 2010 sales volume and cost estimates, consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) are expected to average approximately $0.83 per pound for the year 2010.  Quarterly unit net cash costs will vary with fluctuations in sales volumes.  Unit net cash costs for 2010 would change by approximately $0.008 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the fourth quarter of 2010 and by approximately $0.003 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
  FCX has significant reserves, resources and future development opportunities within its portfolio of assets.  At December 31, 2009, in addition to estimated proven and probable reserves of 104 billion pounds of copper (determined using a long-term average price of $1.60 per pound for copper), FCX identified estimated mineralized material (assessed using a long-term average price of $2.00 per pound for copper) with incremental contained copper of an additional 122 billion pounds.  FCX is aggressively pursuing opportunities to convert this mineralized material into reserves, future production volumes and cash flow.
Development Activities.
 
FCX is increasing near-term production at several of its mines and is undertaking major development projects, including the development of the El Abra sulfide reserves and the massive underground ore bodies at Grasberg.  FCX is also advancing development activities at the Climax primary molybdenum project.
 
In addition, studies are under way to evaluate the potential to expand significantly the concentrator capacity at its large Cerro Verde mine, a major mill project in the El Abra district, mill
 
 
3
 
 
projects to process significant sulfide ore in North America and staged expansion options at Tenke Fungurume.  The advancement of these studies is designed to position FCX to invest in production growth within its existing portfolio of assets.
  FCX operates seven open-pit copper mines in North America (Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona and Tyrone and Chino in New Mexico).  By-product molybdenum is produced primarily at Sierrita and Bagdad.  All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.
North America Copper Mines.
 
 
 
Third-quarter 2010 consolidated copper sales in North America of 267 million pounds were 12 percent lower than third-quarter 2009 sales, primarily because of anticipated lower ore grades at Safford and lower mill throughput because of unscheduled crusher maintenance at Bagdad.
 
For the year 2010, FCX expects sales from North America copper mines to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper, compared with 1.2 billion pounds of copper for 2009.  FCX is increasing mining and milling rates at its Morenci mine and is restarting its Miami and Chino mines, which are expected to result in higher production in future periods (see Operating and Development Activities below).
 
North America unit site production and delivery costs were higher in the third quarter of 2010, compared with the third quarter of 2009, primarily because of higher input costs and increased mining and milling activities at certain mines.  Third-quarter 2010 unit net cash costs benefited from higher molybdenum by-product credits.
 
Based on current operating plans, assuming an average molybdenum price of $15 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2010 and using current 2010 sales volume and cost estimates, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North America copper mines would approximate $1.25 per pound of copper for the year 2010.  Unit net cash costs for 2010 would change by approximately $0.01 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
  At Morenci, FCX has commenced a staged ramp up from the 2009 mining rate of 450,000 metric tons of ore per day to 635,000 metric tons per day.  The mining rate averaged over 480,000 metric tons of ore per day in the third quarter of 2010.  In addition, FCX restarted the Morenci mill in March 2010 to process available sulfide material currently being mined.  Mill throughput averaged 31,000 metric tons of ore per day during the third quarter of 2010 and is expected
Operating and Development Activities.
 
 
4
 
 
to increase to approximately 50,000 metric tons per day by 2011.  The increased mining and milling activities will enable copper production to increase by approximately 125 million pounds annually beginning in 2011.  Further increases to Morencis mining rate are being evaluated.
 
FCX has initiated limited mining activities at the Miami mine in Arizona to improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site.  During an approximate five-year mine life, FCX expects to ramp up production at Miami to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by late 2011.  FCX is investing approximately $40 million in this project, which is benefiting from the use of existing mining equipment.
 
FCX is initiating a restart of mining and milling activities at the Chino mine in New Mexico, which were suspended in late 2008 in response to global economic conditions.  The ramp up of mining and milling activities will significantly increase production at Chino, which is currently producing small amounts of copper from existing leach stockpiles.  Planned mining and milling rates are expected to be achieved by the end of 2013.  Costs for the project for equipment and mill refurbishment are expected to approximate $150 million.  Incremental production of 100 million pounds per annum is expected in 2012 and 2013 and 200 million pounds in 2014.  At December 31, 2009, Chinos reserves, excluding metal in stockpiles, totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper (determined using a long-term av erage price of $1.60 per pound for copper) and reserves would increase significantly using higher prices.
 
FCX is constructing a sulphur burner at Safford, which will provide a more cost effective source of sulphuric acid used in solution extraction/electrowinning operations and lower transportation costs.  This project is expected to be completed in the first half of 2011 at a capital investment of approximately $150 million.
 
Operating plans at the other North America sites are continuing to be assessed.
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine currently producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.  All operations in South America are consolidated in FCXs financial stat ements.
South America Mining.
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
Consolidated copper sales in South America totaled 377 million pounds in the third quarter of 2010, 15 percent higher than third-quarter 2009 sales, primarily reflecting higher ore grades and mill throughput at Candelaria and timing of shipments at Cerro Verde, partly offset by anticipated lower ore grades at El Abra.
 
For the year 2010, FCX expects South America sales of 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 90 thousand ounces of gold for 2009.  Projected copper sales volumes for 2010 are lower than 2009 primarily because of the impacts of anticipated lower ore grades, principally at El Abra in connection with the depletion of the oxide ore resource and the transition to the sulfide deposit.
 
South America unit site production and delivery costs were similar to the year-ago period as higher volumes partly offset higher input costs and the impact of higher copper prices on profit sharing plans.  In addition, higher gold and molybdenum credits in the third quarter of 2010 resulted in lower unit net cash costs than the year-ago period.
 
Using current 2010 sales and costs estimates, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum and gold credits, for its South America mining operations would approximate $1.16 per pound of copper for the year 2010.
 
  FCX is engaged in construction activities associated with the development of a large sulfide deposit at El Abra to extend its mine life by over 10 years.  Construction activities for the initial phase of the project are approximately 55 percent complete.  Production from the sulfide ore, which is projected to ramp up to approximately 300 million pounds of copper per year, is expected to replace the currently depleting oxide copper production beginning in 2011.  The capital investment for this project is expected to total $725 million through 2015, including $565 million for the initial phase of the project expected to be completed in 2011.  In addition, FCX is engaged in studies for a potential large-scale milling operation to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
FCX is completing a project to increase throughput at the existing Cerro Verde concentrator.  The project, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, is expected to increase mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons per day resulting in incremental annual production of approximately 30 million pounds of copper.  The capital investment for this project is expected to total approximately $50 million.
 
In addition, FCX is evaluating a large-scale concentrator expansion at Cerro Verde.  Large reserve additions in recent years have provided opportunities to expand significantly the existing facilitys capacity.  A range of expansion options are being considered and the related feasibility study is expected to be completed in the first half of 2011.
  Through its 90.64 percent owned and wholly consolidated subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesia Mining.
 
6
 
 
 
Indonesia reported higher copper sales in the third quarter of 2010, compared to the third quarter of 2009, primarily because of higher sharing under joint venture arrangements.  Indonesia gold sales for the third quarter of 2010 were lower than third-quarter 2009 sales, primarily as a result of sequencing of mining in the Grasberg open pit.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing in mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in fluctuations in quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.
 
FCX expects Indonesia sales of 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold for the year 2010, compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold for 2009.  The lower copper and gold sales from Indonesia in 2010, compared to 2009, reflect the mining of lower grade material in 2010.
 
Indonesia unit site production and delivery costs were higher in the third quarter of 2010, compared with the third quarter of 2009, primarily because of higher input costs (including materials, labor and energy), higher maintenance and support costs and higher cost sharing under joint venture cost sharing arrangements, partly offset by the impact of higher volumes.  Unit net cash costs of $0.10 per pound in the third quarter of 2010 were higher than the year-ago quarter of a net credit of $0.64 per pound because of higher site costs and lower gold volumes.
 
Assuming an average gold price of $1,300 per ounce for the fourth quarter of 2010 and using current 2010 sales and costs estimates, FCX expects PT-FIs average unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, to approximate $0.05 per pound for the year 2010.  Unit net cash costs for 2010 would change by approximately $0.02 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the fourth quarter of 2010.  Quarterly unit net cash costs will vary significantly with variations in quarterly metal sales volumes.
 
  FCX has several attractive development projects in the Grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and adjacent to the Grasberg open pit.  In aggregate, these ore bodies are expected to ramp up to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following depletion of the Grasberg open pit.  The world-scale Deep Ore Zone underground mine has been expanded to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day and the development of the high-grade Big Gossan mine is expected to begin production in 2011 and reach full rates of 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by the end of 2012.  Substantial progress has been made in developing infrastructure and u nderground workings that will
Development Activities.
 
 
7
 
 
enable access to the underground ore bodies.  Development of the terminal infrastructure and mine access for the massive Grasberg Block Cave and Deep Mill Level Zone ore bodies has commenced.  Estimated aggregate capital spending on these projects in 2010 approximates $350 million ($275 million net to PT-FI).  Over the next several years, estimated aggregate capital spending will average approximately $500 million ($400 million net to PT-FI) per year on underground development activities.
 
PT-FI continues to evaluate economic studies and mine plans to determine the optimal transition from the Grasberg open pit to the Grasberg Block Cave, which is currently planned for 2016.
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and is the operator of the project.  Construction activities on the approximately $2 billion initial project were completed in 2009.  Production of copper cathode commenced in March 2009 and achieved targeted rates in September 2009.  The cobalt plant and sulphuric acid plant were commissioned in the third quarter of 2009.  Tenke Fungurume continues to address start-up and quality issues in the cobalt circuit and will be implementing corrective actions over the next several quarters.  Based on the 10-year average of current design operation s, Tenke Fungurume expects to produce 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of cobalt per year.  Higher grades of cobalt in the initial years are expected to result in higher than life-of-mine average annual cobalt production volumes.
Africa Mining.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FCX expects Tenke Fungurume sales of approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2010, compared with 130 million pounds of copper and 3 million pounds of cobalt for 2009.
 
During the third quarter of 2010, Tenke Fungurumes unit site production and delivery costs averaged $1.44 per pound of copper and its unit net cash costs, net of cobalt by-product credits, averaged $0.86 per pound of copper.
 
Assuming an average cobalt price of $12 per pound for the fourth quarter of 2010, average unit net cash costs are expected to approximate $0.93 per pound of copper for the year 2010.  Each $2 per
 
 
8
 
 
pound change in the average price of cobalt would impact unit net cash costs by approximately $0.04 per pound of copper.
 
  FCX continues to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective district at Tenke Fungurume.  These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion.  FCX is completing studies to evaluate a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity.  A range of expansion options are being considered.   FCX expects production volumes from the project to be expanded significantly over time.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
The milling facilities, which were designed to produce at a capacity rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, have been performing above capacity in recent months.  During the third quarter of 2010, mill throughput averaged 11,800 metric tons of ore per day.  Tenke Fungurume is procuring additional mining equipment, which will enable additional high-grade material to be mined and processed beginning in 2011.  Based on these enhancements to the mine plan and an expected mill throughput rate of 10,000 metric tons of ore per day, FCX estimates copper production will increase from the current level of 250 million pounds per annum to a rate approximating 290 million pounds per annum during 2011.
 
  FCX has achieved significant progress in discussions with the DRC government to resolve the contract review.  FCX continues to operate pursuant to its existing contracts, which comply with Congolese law and provide significant benefits to the DRC government.
Other Matters.
  FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at its wholly owned Henderson underground mine in Colorado and sells by-product molybdenum from its North and South America copper mines.
Molybdenum.
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales from the Henderson mine and by-product mines were higher in the third quarter of 2010, compared to the third quarter of 2009, because of improved demand in the chemicals sector.  Molybdenum markets weakened significantly beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 because of the downturn in global economic conditions, resulting in FCX operating its Henderson mine at reduced rates throughout 2009.  Subsequent improved market conditions have resulted in an increase in Henderson rates to approximately 90 percent of its capacity.
 
For the year 2010, FCX expects molybdenum sales from its mines to approximate 65 million pounds (includes by-product production of approximately 30 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines), compared with 58 million pounds in 2009 (includes by-product production of 27 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines).  The weekly average Molybdenum Dealer Oxide price as of October 20, 2010, was $15.10 per pound.
Metals Week
 
 
9
 
 
Unit net cash costs at the Henderson primary molybdenum mine were similar in the third quarter of 2010 to the third quarter of 2009.  Using current 2010 sales estimates, FCX expects average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine to approximate $6.00 per pound of molybdenum for the year 2010.
 
  Construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine are continuing.  Current achievements at Climax include mobilization of key personnel and contractors, completion of concrete foundations for various equipment installations and preparation for winter construction activities.  FCX plans to continue to advance the construction and will monitor market conditions to determine the timing for start up of mining and milling activities.  FCX believes that this project is one of the most attractive primary molybdenum development projects in the world, with large scale production capacity, attractive cash costs and future growth options.  The Climax mine would have an initial annual design capacity o f 30 million pounds with significant expansion options.  Estimated remaining costs for the project approximate $500 million.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
 
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support the development of additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where it currently operates.  Significantly expanded drilling activities in recent years have been successful in generating meaningful reserve additions and in identifying potential additional mineral resources adjacent to existing ore bodies.  Results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions at Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad in North America; Cerro Verde and El Abra in South America and in the Tenke Fungurume district.  The drilling data in North America continues to indicate opportunities for large additions to sulfide mineralization.
 
Exploration spending in 2010 is estimated to approximate $120 million, compared with $72 million in 2009.  Exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential for future reserve additions in FCXs existing mineral districts.
 
 
PROVISIONAL PRICING AND OTHER
 
For the first nine months of 2010, approximately 51 percent of FCXs mined copper was sold in concentrate, 26 percent as cathode and 23 percent as rod from North America operations.  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.  The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period generally one to four months from the shipment date, primarily based on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) prices.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average record ed copper price for the period.
 
At June 30, 2010, 364 million pounds of copper sales at FCXs copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) were provisionally priced at an average of $2.95 per pound.  Higher prices during the third quarter of 2010 resulted in favorable adjustments to these provisionally priced copper sales and increased third-quarter 2010 consolidated revenues by $191 million ($85 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.18 per share).  Favorable adjustments to the June 30, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales increased third-quarter 2009 consolidated revenues by $237 million ($116 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.25 per share).  Unfavorable adjustments to the December 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales decreased consolidated reve nues in the first nine months of 2010 by $23 million ($9 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.02 per share), and favorable adjustments to the December 31, 2008, provisionally priced copper sales increased consolidated revenues in the first nine months of 2009 by $132 million ($61 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.14 per share).
 
LME copper prices averaged $3.29 per pound during the third quarter of 2010, compared with FCXs recorded average price of $3.50 per pound.  At September 30, 2010, FCX had copper sales of 390
 
 
10
 
 
million pounds of copper at its copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) priced at an average of $3.63 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change from the September 30, 2010, average price for provisionally priced copper sales would have an approximate $13 million effect on FCXs 2010 net income attributable to common stock.  The LME closing settlement price for copper on October 20, 2010, was $3.74 per pound.
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on its PT-FI and South America sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until final sales to third parties occur.  FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI and South America concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income attributable to common stock totaled $93 million at June 30, 2010, and $199 million at September 30, 2010.  Changes in FCXs net deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in reductions to net income attributable to common stock totaling $38 million, $0.08 per share, in the third quarter of 2010 and $66 million, $0.14 per share, in the first nine months of 2010.  For the 2009 periods, changes in FCXs net deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in reductions to net income attributable to common stock totaling $5 million, $0.01 per share, for the third quarter and $8 million, $0.02 per share, for the first nine months of 2009.  Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in FCXs net deferred profits and quarterly earnings.
 
 
CASH FLOWS, CASH, DEBT and EQUITY
 
Operating cash flows totaled $1.3 billion for the third quarter of 2010, net of $636 million of working capital requirements, and $4.2 billion for the first nine months of 2010, net of $529 million of working capital requirements.  Capital expenditures totaled $350 million for the third quarter of 2010 and $877 million for the first nine months of 2010.
 
At September 30, 2010, FCX had consolidated cash of $3.7 billion.  Net of noncontrolling interests share, taxes and other costs, cash available to the parent company totaled $2.9 billion as shown below (in billions):
 
 
At September 30, 2010, FCX had $4.8 billion in debt, with no borrowings and $42 million of letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facilities resulting in total availability of approximately $1.5 billion.
 
From January 1, 2009, through September 30, 2010, FCX has repaid approximately $2.6 billion in debt (approximately 35 percent of outstanding debt on January 1, 2009), resulting in estimated annual interest savings of approximately $163 million based on current interest rates.
FCXs debt maturities through 2012 are indicated in the table below (in millions).
 
At September 30, 2010, FCX had 471 million common shares outstanding.
 
 
11
 
 
OUTLOOK
 
Projected sales volumes for 2010 approximate 3.85 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 65 million pounds of molybdenum, including 895 million pounds of copper, 585 thousand ounces of gold and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
Using current 2010 sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of $3.75 per pound of copper, $1,300 per ounce of gold and $15 per pound of molybdenum for the fourth quarter of 2010, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to approximate $6.0 billion in 2010.  The impact of price changes in the fourth quarter of 2010 on FCXs 2010 operating cash flows would approximate $60 million for each $0.10 per pound change in the average price of copper, $10 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $8 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum.
 
FCXs capital expenditures are currently estimated to approximate $1.6 billion for 2010.  Capital expenditures for major projects in 2010 are expected to approximate $0.7 billion, which primarily includes the sulfide ore project at El Abra, underground development activities at Grasberg, construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine and investments in a new sulphur burner facility at Safford.  Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors.
 
 
Agreement to Invest in McMoRan Exploration Co.
 
In September 2010, FCX announced an agreement to invest $500 million in 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of McMoRan Exploration Co. (NYSE: MMR) in connection with MMRs proposed oil and gas property acquisition from Plains Exploration & Production Company (NYSE: PXP).  The preferred stock is convertible into MMR common stock at an initial conversion price of $16 per share.
 
MMR is engaged in exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.  MMR is currently undertaking a major capital program to fund recent success and additional exploration.  FCXs investment will allow it to participate in MMRs highly prospective North American exploration and development activities, which have the potential to generate significant value.
 
The closing of the transaction is expected by year-end 2010 and is conditioned on the concurrent completion of MMRs proposed oil and gas property acquisition from PXP, MMR shareholder approval of the issuance of the securities to FCX and other customary closing conditions.  For more information, see FCXs Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on September 23, 2010.
 
 
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder value through investing in projects with high rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.
 
FCXs Board of Directors authorized an increase in the cash dividend on common stock from an annual rate of $1.20 per share to $2.00 per share ($0.50 per share quarterly).  The first quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share is expected to be paid on February 1, 2011.
 
FCX intends to continue to maintain a strong financial position, invest aggressively in attractive growth projects and provide strong cash returns to shareholders.  The Board will continue to review FCXs financial policy on an ongoing basis.
 
                                           -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
12
 
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the DRC.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at www.fcx.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which FCX discusses its potential future performance.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, anticipated closing of the investment in MMR, potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and potential share purchases.  The words  220;anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of FCXs Board of Directors and will depend on FCXs financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.  This press release also includes forward-looking statements regarding mineralized material not included in reserves.  The mineralized material described in this press release will not qualify as reserves until comprehensive engineering studies establish their economic feasibility.  Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves.
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
In making any forward-looking statements, the person making them believes that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions.  FCX cautions readers that those statements are not guarantees of future performance and its actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements.  Important factors that can cause FCXs actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, potential outcomes of the contract review process and resolution of administrative disputes in the Democratic Republic of Congo, risks related to the investment in M MR, weather-related risks, labor relations, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, filed with the SEC.  Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on FCXs results of operations or financial condition.  FCX cautions readers that it assumes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements in this press release and does not intend to update the forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VII, which is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.
 
A copy of this release is available on FCXs web site, www.fcx.com.  A conference call with securities analysts about third-quarter 2010 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com.  A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, November 19, 2010.
 
13
 
 
 
I
 
 
II
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
III
 
 
IV
 
 
V
 
.
 
VI
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations.  FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations.  This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by o ther companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper using both a by-product method and a co-product method.  FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations.  In the co-product method presentations, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
FCX shows revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items.  Because the pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales.  Noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, lower of cost or market inventory adjustments, write-offs of equipment and/or unusual charges.  They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs.  Gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method.
 
VII
 
 
 
VIII
 
 
IX
 
 
X
 
 
XI
 
 
XII
 
 
XIII
 
 
XIV
 
 
XV
 
 
XVI
 
 
XVII
 
 
XVIII
 
 
XIX
 
 
XX
 
 
XXI
 
 
XXII
 
 
XXIII
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs income tax provision for the 2010 periods resulted from taxes on international operations ($772 million for the third quarter and $1.8 billion for the first nine months) and U.S operations ($73 million for the third quarter and $205 million for the first nine months).  As presented in the table below, FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate was 35 percent for the first nine months of 2010.
FCXs income tax provision for the 2009 periods resulted from taxes on international operations ($660 million for the third quarter and $1.5 billion for the first nine months) and U.S. operations ($24 million for the third quarter and $29 million for the first nine months). During the first nine months of 2009, FCX did not record a benefit for losses generated in the U.S., and those losses could not be used to offset income generated from international operations. These factors combined with the high proportion of income earned in Indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 43 percent, caused FCXs consolidated effective income tax rate of 41 percent for the first nine months of 2009 to be higher than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent.
Summaries of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes follow (in millions, except percentages):
 
 
 
XXIV
 
FCX has organized its operations into five primary divisions  North America copper mines, South America mining, Indonesia mining, Africa mining and Molybdenum operations.  Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis.  Therefore, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines.  Operating segments that meet certain thresholds are reportable segments.  Further discussion of the reportable segments included in FCXs primary operating divisions, as well as FCXs other reportable segments  Rod & Refining and Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining  follows.
  FCX has seven operating copper mines in North America  Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona and Tyrone and Chino in New Mexico.  The North America copper mines include Morenci as a reportable segment.  Other North America copper mines include FCXs other southwestern U.S. copper mines.  In addition to copper, the Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum concentrates as a by-product.
North America Copper Mines.
  South America mining includes four operating copper mines  Cerro Verde in Peru, and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  South America mining includes Cerro Verde as a reportable segment.  In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates as a by-product.  Other South America mining includes FCXs Chilean copper mines.  In addition to copper, the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as by-products.
South America.
  Indonesia mining includes PT Freeport Indonesias Grasberg minerals district.  PT Freeport Indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver.
Indonesia.
  Africa mining includes the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo.  The Tenke Fungurume mine produces copper cathode and cobalt hydroxide.  Copper cathode production commenced in March 2009, and the first copper cathode was sold in the second quarter of 2009.
Africa.
  The Molybdenum segment includes the Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado and related conversion facilities.  The Molybdenum segment also includes a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from the Henderson mine as well as from FCXs North and South America copper mines that produce molybdenum as a by-product.  At times the Molybdenum segment roasts and/or processes material on a toll basis.
Molybdenum.
  The Rod & Refining segment consists of copper conversion facilities located in North America, and includes a refinery, three rod mills and a specialty copper products facility.  These operations process copper produced at FCXs North America mines and purchased copper into copper cathode, rod and custom copper shapes.  At times these operations refine copper and produce copper rod and shapes for customers on a toll basis.
Rod & Refining.
  Atlantic Copper, FCXs wholly owned smelting unit in Spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes.
Atlantic Copper Smelting & Refining.
  Intersegment sales between FCXs operations are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale.  Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Intersegment Sales
.
  FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to the operating divisions and individual segments.  However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated.  All U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level, whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable mine or operation.  In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating divisions or segments.  Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations tha t may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
Allocations.
 
XXV
 
 
 
XXVI
 
 
XXVII
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
PHOENIX, AZ, October 21, 2010  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its annual common stock dividend from $1.20 per share to $2.00 per share.  Dividends are paid quarterly as declared by the Board with the initial quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share expected to be paid in February 2011. 
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board of FCX, and Richard C. Adkerson, FCXs President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our Boards action to increase the dividend on our common stock to $2.00 per annum reflects our Companys financial strength, its strong operating performance and the positive outlook for our business and markets.  The financial policy established by our Board of Directors is designed to maintain a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility to pursue aggressively investments with attractive rates of returns, while providing cash returns to shareholders from the strong cash flow generated by our operations.
 
The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Board and will depend on the company's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
 
FCX has approximately 471 million shares of common stock outstanding. 
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum. FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at
www.fcx.com.
  This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our potential future performance.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding timing of dividend payments.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will depend on the Company's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.Additionally, important factors that might cause future results to differ from these projections include mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks , commodity prices, political risks, weather-related risks, labor relations, currency translation risks and other factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautionary Statement.
 
 
1
 


