FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20100922184122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01  .
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Stock Purchase Agreement
On September 19, 2010, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX), Freeport-McMoRan Preferred LLC (FCX Preferred), a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, and McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR) entered into a stock purchase agreement (the FCX Purchase Agreement) pursuant to which MMR has agreed to sell and FCX Preferred has agreed to purchase 500,000 shares of MMRs 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share and liquidation preference $1,000 per share (the Preferred Stock), for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million (the FCX Issuance), concurrently with consummation of MMRs announced proposed oil and gas property acquisition from Plains Exploration & Production Company ( 220;PXP) for a combination of shares of MMRs common stock and cash (the Acquisition) and MMRs $400 million financing transaction with a group of institutional investors.  The closing of the FCX Issuance is conditioned on the concurrent consummation of MMRs Acquisition.
At any time, the holder of the Preferred Stock may elect to convert shares of the Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at an initial conversion rate of 62.5 shares of common stock per share of Preferred Stock (initially, an aggregate of 31.25 million shares of MMRs common stock), or an initial conversion price of $16.00 per share of common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments and make-whole adjustment upon certain fundamental changes.
The holder of the Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when, as, and if declared by MMRs board of directors, cumulative dividends at the rate of 5% per annum, payable quarterly in cash.  Accumulated but unpaid dividends accumulate at the rate of 5% per annum.  Each share of Preferred Stock will have a liquidation preference of $1,000 plus an amount equal to all dividends (whether or not declared) accumulated and unpaid to the date of final distribution to holders.  The Preferred Stock will rank senior to MMRs common stock and on parity with MMRs outstanding series of preferred stock.
The Preferred Stock will be governed by the terms of a Certificate of Designations of the Preferred Stock.  Except as granted under Delaware law or MMRs certificate of incorporation, the Preferred Stock will have no voting rights, other than with respect to adverse amendments to MMRs organizational documents or the certificate of designations for the Preferred Stock, including the creation of, or increase in the authorized amount of, any equity securities, which will be senior to the Preferred Stock.  In addition, if dividends are in arrears for six calendar quarters (whether or not consecutive) or if the redemption price is not timely paid, then the holders of the Preferred Stock (voting separately as a class with all other series of parity stock with like voting rights that are then exercisable) will be entitled to elect two additional directors at MMRs next annual or special meeting and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accumulated and unpaid dividends or the redemption price, as applicable, have been fully paid or set apart for payment. The term of office of such directors shall terminate immediately upon the termination of the right of the holders of the Preferred Stock and parity stock to vote for such directors.
MMR may not redeem any shares of the Preferred Stock before three years after the date of issuance of the Preferred Stock. On or after three years after the date of issuance of the Preferred Stock, MMR may redeem some or all of the Preferred Stock at a redemption price equal to 100% of the liquidation preference, plus accumulated but unpaid dividends to the redemption date, but only if the closing sale price of MMRs common stock for 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day before the date MMR gives the redemption notice exceeds 130% of the conversion price of the Preferred Stock.
In addition to customary closing conditions, the obligations of the parties to consummate the FCX Issuance are subject to (1) the expiration or early termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; (2) the approval by MMRs stockholders of each of the FCX issuance and the issuance of common shares to PXP in connection with the Acquisition; and (3) the satisfaction or waiver of all of the closing conditions under MMRs Merger Agreement with PXP and the concurrent consummation of the Acquisition by MMR. MMR stockholder approval of the FCX Issuance will exclude the vote of the shares of MMR common stock owned by certain of MMRs directors and executive officers who also serve as directors or officers of FCX, namely, Richard
 
 
 
C. Adkerson, Robert A. Day, Gerald J. Ford, H. Devon Graham, Jr., James R. Moffett, Nancy D. Parmelee, Kathleen L. Quirk and B. M. Rankin, Jr.  For more information see Certain Relationships below.
The parties may terminate the FCX Purchase Agreement (1) by mutual written consent, (2) if the FCX Issuance has not been consummated on or before February 28, 2011, (3) if a court or other governmental authority has issued a final, non-appealable order prohibiting the FCX Issuance; (4) if the required vote of MMRs shareholders is not obtained; (5) if MMR fails to recommend a vote in favor of the FCX Issuance in its proxy statement; or (6) due to material breaches of the parties representations, warranties or obligations.
The parties have made customary representations and warranties to each other, and have agreed to indemnify each other in connection with certain matters relating to the FCX Issuance.  MMR has agreed to generally operate its business in the normal course, and to refrain from taking certain actions until the closing of the FCX Issuance without seeking consent under the FCX Purchase Agreement.
MMR has agreed to prepare and file a proxy statement with respect to the FCX Issuance no later than 30 days following the date of the FCX Purchase Agreement, and (subject to certain exceptions) to recommend that its stockholders vote in favor of the FCX Issuance.
On September 20, 2010, FCX issued a press release announcing that it has agreed to purchase
$500 million of 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of MMR (see exhibit 99.1).
.  Upon closing of the FCX Issuance, MMR and FCX will enter into a registration rights agreement (the FCX Registration Rights Agreement) pursuant to which MMR has agreed to, within 60 days of closing, (1) prepare and file with the SEC a shelf registration statement with respect to the securities issued to FCX under the FCX Purchase Agreement (the FCX Registrable Securities) that would permit the FCX Registrable Securities to be resold in registered transactions and (2) use its commercially reasonable efforts to maintain the effectiveness of the shelf registration statement while FCX and its affiliates hold FCX Registrable Securities. In addition, under certain circumstances, the FCX Registration Rights Agreement permits FCX to demand or participate in an underwritten public offering by MMR.  The registration rights offered to FCX are comparable to the registration rights offered to PXP under its Registration Rights Agreement.
FCX Registration Rights Agreement
.  Upon closing of the FCX Issuance, FCX, FCX Preferred and MMR will enter into a stockholder agreement (the FCX Stockholder Agreement), pursuant to which, among other things, FCX will have the right to nominate individuals to serve on MMRs board of directors (the FCX Designated Directors) similar to the rights granted to PXP under the PXP Stockholder Agreement. Upon the issuance of the Preferred Stock at closing, for as long as FCX and its affiliates beneficially own (1) not less than 75% of the percentage of MMRs common stock on a fully diluted basis owned at closing by FCX and its affiliates, FCX will have the right to designate two members of MMRs board of directors; and (2) between 25% and 75% o f the percentage of MMRs outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis owned at closing by FCX and its affiliates, FCX will have the right to designate one member of MMRs board of directors; provided, however, that FCXs designation rights will besuspended during such time as at least two members of MMRs board of directors are also members of FCXs board of directors.  FCX will have no designation rights while FCX and its affiliates beneficially own less than 25% of the percentage of MMRs outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis owned at closing by FCX and its affiliates.
FCX Stockholder Agreement
 
FCX and its controlled affiliates, including FCX Preferred, have agreed to a 120-day lock-up period during which FCX and its controlled affiliates will not (1) loan, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of the Preferred Stock or shares of MMRs common stock issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Stock or (2) enter into any swap or other arrangement that transfers to another, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of MMR common stock or the Preferred Stock; provided, however, that FCX may make transfers to its wholly owned affiliates.  In addition, the FCX Stockholder Agreement provides that, prior to the first anniversary of the closing date, none of FCX, its subsidiaries, controlled affiliates or any person that is an officer or director of FCX and who serves as an officer or director of MMR may sell or transfer to
 
 
 
PXP any shares of Preferred Stock or any shares of MMR common stock issued upon conversion of the Preferred Stock.
While FCX, its affiliates and certain of their affiliated persons own at least 15% of MMRs outstanding common stock, on a fully diluted basis, FCX and its controlled affiliates have agreed not to (1) acquire or seek to acquire additional securities of MMR if MMRs Acquisition would result in FCX owning more than 103% of the percentage of MMRs outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis owned at closing by FCX and its affiliates; (2) form, join, or in any way participate in or enter into agreements with a group (as defined in Section 13(d)-3 of the Exchange Act) with regard to MMR; (3) commence a tender offer or exchange offer for MMRs securities; (4) agree on, offer or otherwise become involved with a merger or an acquisition transaction involving MMR; (5) call, or seek to call, a m eeting of MMRs shareholders, or seek to present a shareholder proposal; or (6) seek to assist, advise, or finance any of the foregoing.
While FCX and its affiliates own at least 5% of MMRs outstanding common stock, on a fully diluted basis, FCX and its controlled affiliates have agreed not to (1) participate in any proxy solicitations with respect to MMRs securities (other than certain permitted activities relating to solicitations by or on behalf of members of the FCX board of directors who are also members of the board of directors of MMR); or (2) enter into any agreements with regard to acquiring, voting, holding or disposing of any capital stock of MMR with any director or officer of FCX or PXP who is also a director or officer of MMR.
While FCX and its affiliates own at least 5% of MMRs outstanding common stock, on a fully diluted basis, and prior to the first anniversary of the issue date, FCX and its controlled affiliates have agreed not to enter into any agreements for the purpose of acquiring, voting, holding or disposing of any capital stock of MMR with PXP or any of its affiliates, directors or officers (provided that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to any transaction in which either FCX or PXP or any of their controlled affiliates offers to acquire all outstanding shares of MMRs common stock).
The foregoing descriptions of the FCX Stock Purchase Agreement, the FCX Registration Rights Agreement and the FCX Stockholder Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text thereof.  Copies of the foregoing agreements will be filed as exhibits to FCXs next Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
For information regarding MMRs Acquisition, see the Form 8-K dated September 19, 2010, filed by MMR with the SEC.
  MMR is a party to a services agreement with FM Services Company (the Services Company), a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, under which the Services Company provides MMR with executive, technical, administrative, accounting, financial, tax and other services pursuant to a fixed fee arrangement.  The Services Company also provides similar services to FCX.  In 2009, MMR incurred approximately $8.4 million of costs under the services agreement.
Certain Relationships.
Several of FCXs directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of MMR.  James R. Moffett, Richard C. Adkerson, B. M. Rankin, Jr., Robert A. Day, Gerald J. Ford and H. Devon Graham, Jr., each of whom is a director of FCX, also serve as directors of MMR.  Messrs. Moffett and Adkerson and Ms. Kathleen L. Quirk, each of whom is an executive officer of FCX, also serve as executive officers of MMR.  In addition, Ms. Nancy D. Parmelee, an officer of FCX, also serves as an executive officer of MMR.
As of September 15, 2010, the overlapping board members and officers beneficially owned shares of MMRs common stock (excluding shares that could be acquired within 60 days of September 15, 2010, upon the exercise of options granted pursuant to MMR benefit plans) as follows: Mr. Moffett, 4,905,404; Mr. Adkerson, 402,608; Mr. Rankin, 580,837; Mr. Day, 1,072,285; Mr. Ford, 2,046,872, Mr. Graham, 3,875; Ms. Parmelee, 4,069; and Ms. Quirk, 11,811.  In addition, each person has the right to acquire the following amounts of MMR shares upon the exercise of options exercisable within 60 days that were granted under MMR benefit plans: Mr. Moffett, 3,575,000; Mr. Adkerson, 2,325,000; Mr. Rankin, 16,000; Mr. Day, 22,375; Mr. Ford, 22,375; Mr. Graham, 22,375; Ms. Parmelee, 235,000; and Ms. Quirk, 345,000.  As of September 15 , 2010, MMR had approximately 95 million shares of common stock outstanding.
 
 
 
For more information, see FCXs 2010 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on April 23, 2010.
FCXs investment transaction with MMR was negotiated between a special committee of independent directors of FCXs board of directors and a special committee of independent directors of the MMR board of directors. The special committees each engaged independent financial and legal advisors in connection with the transaction.
Anticipated Equity Ownership
Following the FCX Issuance and the consummation of the planned concurrent transactions by MMR, FCX expects to beneficially own 14% of MMRs outstanding common stock, on a fully diluted basis.
Item 9.01  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  
Exhibits.
The Exhibit included as part of this Current Report is listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
PHOENIX, AZ, September 20, 2010  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) has agreed to purchase $500 million of 5% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock (Preferred Stock) of McMoRan Exploration Co. (NYSE: MMR) in connection with MMRs proposed oil and gas property acquisition from Plains Exploration & Production Company (NYSE:PXP) (MMRs press release dated September 20, 2010 is available at www.mcmoran.com).  The Preferred Stock is convertible into MMR common stock at a conversion price of $16 per share.  A group of institutional investors has also agreed to concurrently purchase $400 million in convertible securities, including a portion of the Preferred Stock, of MMR.
MMR is engaged in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.  MMR is currently undertaking a major capital program involving its Davy Jones discovery and other high potential exploration opportunities.  FCXs investment will allow it to participate in MMRs highly prospective North American exploration and development activities, which have the potential to generate significant value.
FCXs investment was negotiated between a special committee of independent directors of the FCX board of directors and a special committee of independent directors of the MMR board of directors.  The special committees each engaged independent financial and legal advisors in connection with this transaction.  The FCX special committee was advised by Lazard Frres & Co and the law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
The closing of the investment is subject to the completion of MMRs property acquisition from PXP, MMR shareholder approval of the issuance of securities to FCX, and other customary closing conditions.  Closing of the investment is expected to occur by year-end 2010.
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum. FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg mining complex, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves, significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs web site at www.fcx.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We caution readers that those statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual future financial results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the proposed transactions and other statements that are not historical facts. No assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition.  Important factors that can cause actual results to differ materially from the results anticipated by forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those associated with general and economic business conditions, fluctuations in
Cautionary Statement:
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
 
1
 
 
 
commodity prices, the failure to complete the proposed transaction, the inability to satisfy the closing conditions to the proposed transaction, the risk of loss of some or all of the proposed investment, and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in our 2009 Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as updated by our subsequent filings with the SEC.  Investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. Further, during the quarter, we may make changes to our busi ness plans that could or will affect our results for the quarter. We caution investors that we do not intend to update our forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly, notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in our business plans, our actual experience, or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
  2
 
 


