FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20110420140444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated April 20, 2011, announcing its first-quarter 2011 results and referencing supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its website that accompanied its April 20, 2011, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 8.01.  
Other Events.
FCX issued a press release dated April 20, 2011, announcing that its Board of Directors has declared a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.50 per share to be paid on June 1, 2011, to shareholders of record as of May 15, 2011 (see exhibit 99.3).
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date:  April 20, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit
Number
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
PHOENIX, AZ, April 20, 2011  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported first-quarter 2011 net income attributable to common stock of $1.5 billion, $1.57 per share, compared to net income of $897 million, $1.00 per share, for the first quarter of 2010.
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our strong first-quarter results reflect solid execution by our global operating teams and continuation of favorable pricing for our principal commodities  copper, gold and molybdenum.  We are focused on continuing the successful execution of our operating plans and on developing our highly attractive projects for future growth.  We are well placed for future success with an attractive resource position, strong technical and project management capabilities and the financial resources required for investment.  We are also pleased to have significant cash flows to enable investment in growth projects while providing increased cash returns to shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
OPERATIONS
 
  First-quarter 2011 consolidated copper sales of 926 million pounds were higher than the January 2011 estimate of 840 million pounds but lower than first-quarter 2010 copper sales of 960 million pounds.  The variance to the January 2011 estimate primarily reflects favorable production performance in Indonesia, because of access to high-grade ore previously expected to be mined in future periods, and improved production in North and South America.  The variance to the 2010 period primarily reflects lower sales from Indonesia and North America because of timing of shipments.
Consolidated.
 
First-quarter 2011 consolidated gold sales of 480 thousand ounces were higher than the January 2011 estimate of 325 thousand ounces, primarily because of mining higher grade ore in Indonesia previously expected in future periods, and approximated first-quarter 2010 gold sales of 478 thousand ounces.
 
First-quarter 2011 consolidated molybdenum sales of 20 million pounds were higher than the January 2011 estimate and first-quarter 2010 sales of 17 million pounds, primarily reflecting improved demand in the chemical and metallurgical sectors.
 
Consolidated sales for 2011 are expected to approximate 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.6 million ounces of gold and 73 million pounds of molybdenum.  Annual sales estimates are higher than the January 2011 estimates of 3.85 billion pounds of copper and 1.4 million ounces of gold, primarily because of mine plan improvements in Indonesia.
 
As anticipated, consolidated unit site production and delivery costs of $1.61 per pound of copper in the first quarter of 2011 were higher than first-quarter 2010 unit costs of $1.35 per pound of copper as a result of increased input costs, including materials, labor and energy.  Average unit net cash costs of $0.79 per pound of copper in the first quarter of 2011 were lower than $0.82 per pound of copper in the prior year quarter, primarily because of higher gold and molybdenum by-product credits in the 2011 period.
 
Assuming average prices of $1,400 per ounce for gold and $15 per pound for molybdenum for the remainder of 2011 and using current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates, consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) are expected to average approximately $1.04 per pound of copper for the year 2011.  Unit net cash costs are lower than previous estimates because of higher volumes in Indonesia.  Quarterly unit net cash costs will vary with fluctuations in sales volumes.  Unit net cash costs for 2011 would change by approximately $0.02 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the remainder of 2011 and by approximately $0.02 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the remainder of 2011.
  FCX operates seven open-pit copper mines in North America (Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita and Miami in Arizona and Tyrone and Chino in New Mexico).  Molybdenum is also produced by Sierrita, Bagdad and Morenci.  All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci.  FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method.
North America Copper Mines.
 
  At Morenci, FCX reached its targeted mining rate of 635,000 metric tons of ore per day in March 2011 after commencing a staged ramp up from the 2009 mining rate of 450,000 metric tons per day.  In addition, FCX restarted the Morenci mill in March 2010 to process available sulfide material currently being mined.  Mill throughput averaged 48,300 metric tons of ore per day during the first quarter of 2011 and is expected to increase to approximately 50,000 metric tons per day by the second half of 2011.  The increased mining and milling activities are expected to enable copper production to increase by approximately 125 million pounds per year beginning in 2011.  During the first quarter of 2011, FCX commenced a feasibility study to add additional mining and milling capacity at Morenci to process additional sulfide ores identified through positive exploratory drilling in recent years.  The project, which would require significant investment, would increase milling rates to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day and target 150 to 200 million pounds of incremental annual copper production within a two to three year timeframe.  The study is expected to be completed in the second half of 2011.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
 
3
 
 
FCX has initiated limited mining activities at the Miami mine in Arizona to improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects associated with historical mining operations at the site.  During an approximate five-year mine life, FCX expects to ramp up production at Miami to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by 2012.
 
FCX has initiated the restart of mining and milling activities at the Chino mine in New Mexico, which were suspended in late 2008.  The ramp-up of mining and milling activities will significantly increase production at Chino, which is currently producing small amounts of copper from existing leach stockpiles.  The start-up is on schedule, with planned mining and milling rates expected to be achieved by the end of 2013.  Incremental annual production is expected to be 100 million pounds in 2012 and 2013 and 200 million pounds in 2014.  Costs for the project associated with equipment and mill refurbishment are expected to approximate $150 million.
 
FCX has completed construction of the $150 million sulphur burner at the Safford mine, which will provide a more cost effective source of sulphuric acid used in solution extraction/electrowinning (SX/EW) operations and lower transportation costs.
 
  Following is summary operating data for the North America copper mines for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Operating Data.
 
 
 
First-quarter 2011 consolidated copper sales in North America of 276 million pounds were lower than first-quarter 2010 sales because of timing of shipments.  As anticipated, production was higher in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the 2010 period, primarily reflecting increased mining and milling activities at Morenci.
 
For the year 2011, FCX expects sales from North America copper mines to approximate 1.2 billion pounds of copper, compared to 1.1 billion pounds of copper for 2010.  The restart of Miami and Chino and potential expansion of Morenci are expected to further increase production in future periods.
 
As anticipated, North America unit site production and delivery costs were higher in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the first quarter of 2010, primarily because of increased mining and milling activities and higher input costs.  First-quarter 2011 unit net cash costs benefited from higher molybdenum by-product credits.
 
Based on current operating plans, assuming an average molybdenum price of $15 per pound for the remainder of 2011 and using current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs, including molybdenum credits, for its North America copper mines would
 
 
4
 
 
approximate $1.47 per pound of copper for the year 2011.  Unit net cash costs for 2011 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum for the remainder of 2011.
  FCX operates four copper mines in South America  Cerro Verde in Peru and Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile.  FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, an open-pit mine currently producing both electrowon copper cathodes and copper concentrates.  FCX owns 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes, which include the Candelaria open-pit and underground mines and the Ojos del Salado underground mines.  These mines use common processing facilities to produce copper concentrates.  FCX owns a 51 percent interest in El Abra, an open-pit mine producing electrowon copper cathodes.  All operations in South America are consolidated in FCXs financial statements.
South America Mining.
 
  During the first quarter of 2011, El Abra commenced production from its newly commissioned stacking and leaching facilities to transition from oxide to sulfide ores.  Production from the sulfide ore, which is projected to reach design levels in the second half of 2011, would approximate 300 million pounds of copper per year, substantially replacing the currently depleting oxide copper production.  The aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total $725 million through 2015, including $565 million for the initial phase of the project expected to be completed in 2011.  In addition, FCX is engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
FCX is progressing its evaluation of a large-scale concentrator expansion at Cerro Verde.  Significant reserve additions in recent years have provided opportunities to expand significantly the existing facilitys capacity.  A range of expansion options have been considered, and FCX is targeting a project to increase mill throughput from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons per day, making Cerro Verde one of the worlds largest concentrating operations.  Following completion of the feasibility study in the second quarter of 2011, FCX expects to file an environmental impact assessment in the second half of 2011.
 
Following is summary operating data for the South America mining operations for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Operating Data.
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
Copper sales from South America mining operations of 312 million pounds in the first quarter of 2011 were slightly higher than first-quarter 2010 sales of 307 million pounds, primarily reflecting higher ore grades at Candelaria and increased mill throughput at Cerro Verde, partly offset by anticipated lower mining rates at El Abra as it transitions from oxide to sulfide ores.
 
For the year 2011, FCX expects South America sales of 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold, similar to 2010 sales.
 
As anticipated, South America unit site production and delivery costs for the first quarter of 2011 were higher than the year-ago period, principally reflecting higher input costs, including materials, energy and currency exchange rates, partly offset by higher volumes.  Average unit net cash costs of $1.13 per pound in the first quarter of 2011 were lower than $1.18 per pound for the first quarter of 2010, primarily reflecting higher molybdenum and gold credits.
 
Using current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of $1,400 per ounce of gold and $15 per pound of molybdenum for the remainder of 2011, FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs (net of molybdenum and gold credits) for its South America mining operations would approximate $1.19 per pound of copper for the year 2011.
  Through its 90.64 percent owned and wholly consolidated subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Indonesia Mining.
 
  FCX has several projects in process in the Grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit.  In aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2016.
Operating and Development Activities.
 
The Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine, one of the worlds largest underground mines, has been expanded to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day; and a feasibility study for the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ), which is expected to start up as the DOZ depletes, has been completed.  The high-grade Big Gossan mine, which began producing in the fourth quarter of 2010, is expected to reach full rates of 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by the end of 2012.  Substantial progress has been made in developing infrastructure and underground workings that will enable access to the underground ore bodies.  Development of the terminal infrastructure and mine access for the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ ore bodies is in progress.  Over the next five years, estimated aggregate capital spending is expected to average approximately $600 million ($470 million net to PT-FI) per year on underground development activities.
 
Following is summary operating data for the Indonesia mining operations for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Operating Data.
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
Indonesia reported slightly lower copper sales in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the first quarter of 2010, primarily because of timing of shipments.  Gold sales in the first quarter of 2011 approximated first-quarter 2010 sales.  First-quarter 2011 copper and gold sales were significantly above the January 2011 estimates because of improved pit slope conditions, which enabled access to ore previously expected to be mined in future periods.  At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing of mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in fluctuations in quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold.
 
Because of recent revisions to its Grasberg mine plans, FCX expects 2011 sales to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.5 million ounces of gold, which reflect increases of approximately 40 million pounds and approximately 130 thousand ounces compared to the January 2011 estimates.
 
Indonesia unit site production and delivery costs were higher in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the first quarter of 2010, primarily because of higher maintenance and other input costs.  Unit net cash costs averaged a net credit of $0.16 per pound in the first quarter of 2011, compared to a net cost of $0.10 per pound for the first quarter of 2010, primarily reflecting higher gold credits.
 
Assuming an average gold price of $1,400 per ounce for the remainder of 2011 and using current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates, FCX expects PT-FIs average unit net cash costs, including gold and silver credits, to approximate $0.38 per pound of copper for the year 2011.  Unit net cash costs for 2011 would change by approximately $0.06 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold for the remainder of 2011.  Quarterly unit net cash costs will vary significantly with variations in quarterly metal sales volumes.
  FCX holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and is the operator of the project, which is consolidated in FCXs financial statements.  The Tenke mine includes surface mining, leaching and SX/EW operations. Copper production from the Tenke mine is sold as copper cathode. In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide.
Africa Mining.
 
In October 2010, the government of the DRC announced the conclusion of the review of Tenke Fungurume Minings (TFM) contracts, and confirmed that TFMs existing mining contracts are in good standing and acknowledged the rights and benefits granted under those contracts.  In connection with the review, TFM made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in December 2010.  In March 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council; and a Presidential Decree, signed by the President and Prime Minister of the DRC, was issued in April 2011.  After giving effect to the modifications that will be made to TFMs bylaws to reflect the agreement of the parties, FCXs effective ownership percentage in the project will be 56.0 percent, compared to its current ownership interest of 57.75 percent.
 
  The milling facilities, which were designed to produce at a capacity rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, continue to perform above capacity.  During the first quarter of 2011, mill throughput averaged 10,800 metric tons of ore per day.  Tenke Fungurume has procured additional mining equipment, which is enabling additional high-grade material to be mined and processed in 2011.  Based on these enhancements to the mine plan and an expected mill throughput rate
Operating and Development Activities.
 
 
7
 
 
of 10,000 metric tons of ore per day, FCX estimates average annual copper production will approximate 290 million pounds.
 
FCX continues to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at Tenke Fungurume.  These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate expansion opportunities.  FCX is planning a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity.  As part of the second phase, FCX is completing studies to expand the mill rate to 14,000 metric tons of ore per day and construct related processing facilities that would target the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper per year in an approximate two-year timeframe.  FCX expects production volumes from the project to expand significantly over time.
 
Following is summary operating data for the Africa mining operations for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Operating Data.
 
 
 
 
 
Tenke Fungurume reported lower copper sales in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the first quarter of 2010, primarily because of timing of shipments.
 
FCX expects Tenke Fungurume sales of approximately 285 million pounds of copper and over 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2011, compared to 262 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of cobalt for 2010.
 
Tenke Fungurumes unit site production and delivery costs for the first quarter of 2011 were higher than the first quarter of 2010, principally reflecting increased mining and milling activities and higher input costs.  Average unit net cash costs of $0.86 per pound in the first quarter of 2011 were lower than $1.04 per pound for the first quarter of 2010, primarily reflecting higher cobalt credits.
 
Assuming an average cobalt price of $14 per pound for the remainder of 2011 and using current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates, average unit net cash costs are expected to approximate $0.93 per pound of copper for the year 2011.  Each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt for the remainder of 2011 would impact unit net cash costs by approximately $0.06 per pound of copper.
 
8
 
 
  FCX is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.  FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at its wholly owned Henderson underground mine in Colorado and also sells molybdenum produced from its North and South America copper mines.
Molybdenum.
 
Construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine are approximately 60 percent complete.  Recent activities include continuation of mill equipment assembly, commencement of flotation cell placement and refurbishment of the primary crusher.  FCX plans to advance construction and conduct mine preparation activities throughout 2011, with construction expected to be complete by early 2012.  The timing for start up of mining and milling activities will be dependent on market conditions.  FCX believes that this project is one of the most attractive primary molybdenum development projects in the world, with large-scale production capacity, attractive cash costs and future growth options.  The Climax mine would have an initial annual design capacity of 30 million pounds with significant expansion options.  Estimated remaining costs for the project approximate $350 million.
Development Activities.
 
 
  Following is summary operating data for the Molybdenum operations for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Operating Data.
 
 
 
 
Consolidated molybdenum sales from mines were higher in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the first quarter of 2010, primarily reflecting improved demand in the chemical and metallurgical sectors.
 
For the year 2011, FCX expects molybdenum sales from its mines to approximate 73 million pounds (including production of approximately 45 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines), compared to 67 million pounds in 2010 (including production of 32 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines).
 
Unit net cash costs at the Henderson primary molybdenum mine were higher in the first quarter of 2011, compared to the first quarter of 2010, primarily because of increased input costs, including labor and materials.  Using current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates, FCX expects average unit net cash costs for its Henderson mine to approximate $7.25 per pound of molybdenum for the year 2011.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
 
FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support the development of additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where it currently operates.  Favorable exploration results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in the Americas and in the Tenke Fungurume minerals district.  The drilling data in North America continue to indicate the potential for expanded sulfide production.
 
Exploration spending in 2011 is expected to approximate $225 million, compared to $113 million in 2010.  Exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential for future reserve additions in FCXs existing minerals districts.
 
9
 
PROVISIONAL PRICING AND OTHER
 
For the first quarter of 2011, 57 percent of FCXs mined copper was sold in concentrate, 22 percent as rod from North America operations and 21 percent as cathode.  Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCXs copper concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment.  The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future period (generally one to four months from the shipment date), primarily based on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average spot prices.  Because a significant portion of FCXs concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded copper price for the period.  LME spot copper prices averaged $4.38 per pound during the first quarter of 2011, compared to FCXs recorded average price of $4.31 per pound.
 
At December 31, 2010, 417 million pounds of copper sales at FCXs copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) were provisionally priced at an average of $4.36 per pound.  Lower prices during the first quarter of 2011 resulted in unfavorable adjustments to these provisionally priced copper sales and decreased first-quarter 2011 consolidated revenues by $10 million ($4 million to net income attributable to common stock or less than $0.01 per share).  Unfavorable adjustments to the December 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales decreased first-quarter 2010 consolidated revenues by $4 million ($2 million to net income attributable to common stock or less than $0.01 per share).
 
At March 31, 2011, FCX had copper sales of 464 million pounds of copper at its copper mining operations (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) priced at an average of $4.27 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months.  Each $0.05 change from the March 31, 2011, average price for provisionally priced copper sales would have an approximate $15 million effect on FCXs 2011 net income attributable to common stock.  The LME spot copper price on April 19, 2011, was $4.21 per pound.
 
FCX defers recognizing profits on its PT-FI and South America sales to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of PT-FIs sales to PT Smelting, PT-FIs 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit, until final sales to third parties occur.  FCXs net deferred profits on PT-FI and South America concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods net income attributable to common stock totaled $249 million at March 31, 2011.  Changes in FCXs net deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in reductions to net income attributable to common stock totaling $15 million, $0.02 per share, in the first quarter of 2011 and $48 million, $0.05 per share, for the first quarter 2010.  Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in FCXs net deferred profits and quarterly earnings.
CASH FLOWS, CASH and DEBT
 
Operating cash flows totaled $2.4 billion for the first quarter of 2011.  Cash used in investing activities for the first quarter of 2011 reflected capital expenditures of $505 million.
 
At March 31, 2011, FCX had consolidated cash of $4.1 billion, excluding $1.2 billion of restricted cash.  Net of noncontrolling interests share, taxes and other costs, cash available to the parent company totaled $3.2 billion as shown below (in billions):
 
 
 
10
 
 
At March 31, 2011, FCX had $4.8 billion in debt.  After giving effect to the April 1, 2011, redemption of $1.1 billion in FCXs 8.25% Senior Notes due 2015, which was funded with restricted cash, total debt approximated $3.7 billion.
 
On March 30, 2011, FCX entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaced the revolving credit facilities that were scheduled to mature in March 2012.  The new revolving credit facility is available until March 30, 2016, in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion, with $500 million available to PT-FI.  FCX had no borrowings and $43 million of letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facility resulting in total availability of approximately $1.5 billion at March 31, 2011.
 
After taking into account the April 1, 2011, redemption of the 8.25% Senior Notes, FCX has repaid approximately $3.7 billion in debt (approximately 50 percent) since January 1, 2009, resulting in estimated annual interest savings of approximately $260 million based on current interest rates.  FCX expects to record an approximate $49 million charge to net income attributable to common stock in the second quarter of 2011 in connection with the April 1, 2011, senior note redemption.  FCXs debt maturities through 2013 are indicated in the table below (in millions).
 
FCX has $3.0 billion in debt, which is redeemable in whole or in part, at its option, at make-whole redemption prices prior to April 2012, and afterwards at stated redemption prices.
OUTLOOK
 
Projected consolidated sales volumes for 2011 approximate 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.6 million ounces of gold and 73 million pounds of molybdenum, including 965 million pounds of copper, 365 thousand ounces of gold and 17 million pounds of molybdenum in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Using 2011 sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of $4.25 per pound of copper, $1,400 per ounce of gold and $15 per pound of molybdenum for the remainder of 2011, FCXs consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to approximate $8.3 billion in 2011.  The impact of price changes for the remainder of 2011 on FCXs 2011 operating cash flows would approximate $125 million for each $0.05 per pound change in the average price of copper, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $60 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum.
 
FCXs capital expenditures are currently estimated to approximate $2.5 billion for 2011.  Capital expenditures for major projects in 2011 are expected to approximate $1.3 billion, which primarily includes underground development activities at Grasberg, construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine and completion of the initial phase of the sulfide ore project at El Abra.  In addition, FCX is considering additional investments at several of its sites.  Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors.
FINANCIAL POLICY
 
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder value through investing in projects with attractive rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases.
 
In December 2010, FCXs Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split of its common stock. On February 1, 2011, shareholders received one additional share of common stock for each share of common stock held.  After taking the stock split into account, the annual dividend rate is $1.00 per share ($0.25 per share quarterly).
 
11
 
FCX also announced today that its Board of Directors declared a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.50 per share to be paid on June 1, 2011, to shareholders of record as of May 15, 2011.  The supplemental dividend to be paid in June represents an addition to FCXs regular quarterly common stock dividend of $0.25 per share.  Based on approximately 947 million shares currently outstanding, the June 2011 supplemental dividend payment will approximate $474 million.
 
FCX intends to continue to maintain a strong financial position, invest aggressively in attractive growth projects and provide cash returns to shareholders.  The Board will continue to review FCXs financial policy on an ongoing basis.
WEBCAST INFORMATION
 
A conference call with securities analysts to discuss FCXs first-quarter 2011 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time.  The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides.  Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com.  A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, May 20, 2011.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves; significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large-scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America; and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the DRC.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs website at www.fcx.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which FCX discusses its potential future performance.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, mine production and development plans, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and potential share purchases.  The words anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements.  The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of FCXs Board of Directors (the Board) and will depend on FCXs financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
 
 
In making any forward-looking statements, the person making them believes that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions.  FCX cautions readers that those statements are not guarantees of future performance and its actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements.  Important factors that can cause FCXs actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, the resolution of administrative disputes in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather-related risks, labor relations, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the SEC.
 
Investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. Further, we may make changes to our business plans that could or will affect our results. We caution investors that we do not intend to update our forward-looking statements notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in our business plans, our actual experience, or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.
 
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs (credits) per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum.  As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VI, which is available on FCXs website, www.fcx.com.
 
 
12
 
 
I
 
I
 
 
 
 
II
 
 
 
III
 
 
 
IV
 
 
 
V
 
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCXs mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations.  FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations.  This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCXs measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a by-product method and a co-product method.  FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCXs costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCXs management and Board of Directors to monitor operations.  In the co-product method presentations, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCXs metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
FCX shows revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items.  Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales.  Noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, write-offs of equipment and/or unusual charges.  They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs.  As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method.  Following are presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCXs consolidated financial statements.
 
 
VI
 
 
 
 
VII
 
 
 
VIII
 
 
 
IX
 
 
 
X
 
 
 
XI
 
 
 
XII
 
 
 
XIII
 
 
 
XIV
 
 
 
XV
 
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
FCXs first-quarter 2011 income tax provision resulted from taxes on international operations ($846 million) and U.S. operations ($138 million).  FCXs first-quarter 2010 income tax provision resulted from taxes on international operations ($597 million) and U.S. operations ($81 million). A summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCXs consolidated provision for income taxes for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010 follows (in millions, except percentages):
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
FCX has organized its operations into five primary divisions  North America copper mines, South America mining, Indonesia mining, Africa mining and Molybdenum operations. Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis. Therefore, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines. Operating segments that meet certain thresholds are reportable segments, which are separately disclosed in the following table.
Intersegment sales between FCXs operations are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale. Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Intersegment Sales.
FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to the operating divisions and individual segments. However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated. All U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level, whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable country. In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating divisions or segments. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
Allocations.
 
 
XVI
 
 
XVII
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
PHOENIX, AZ, April 20, 2011  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.50 per share to be paid on June 1, 2011 to shareholders of record as of May 15, 2011.  The supplemental dividend to be paid in June represents an addition to FCXs regular quarterly common stock dividend of $0.25 per share.   
 
The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the Board and will depend on the company's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.  Based on approximately 947 million common shares currently outstanding, the June 2011 supplemental dividend payment will approximate $474 million.
 
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board and
Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer of FCX, said, This action reflects our established financial policy of maintaining a strong balance sheet, prioritizing uses of cash to future growth and returning excess cash to shareholders.  Our recent financial performance, strong balance sheet and the positive market environment for our products enables us to invest aggressively in our attractive portfolio of growth projects while providing strong cash returns to shareholders.  
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.  FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum.  FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the worlds largest producer of molybdenum.
 
The companys portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district, the worlds largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves; significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America; and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Additional information about FCX is available on FCXs website at
www.fcx.com.
 
  This press release contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our potential future performance.  Forward-looking statements are all statements other than historical facts, such as statements regarding timing of dividend payments.  The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will depend on the Company's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.In addition,  important factors that might cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated by forward-looking statements include factors described in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautionary Statement.
 
 
 
1
 


