FILE:FCX/FCX-8K-20110721155042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 21, 2011
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (602) 366-8100
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) issued a press release dated July 21, 2011, announcing its second-quarter and six-month 2011 results and referencing supplementary schedules (see exhibit 99.1) and presented slides on its website that accompanied its July 21, 2011, earnings conference call (see exhibit 99.2).
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
The Exhibits included as part of this Current Report are listed in the attached Exhibit Index.
                                
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
By: /s/ C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
----------------------------------------
C. Donald Whitmire, Jr.
Vice President and Controller -
Financial Reporting
(authorized signatory and
Principal Accounting Officer)
Date: July 21, 2011
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
Exhibit Index
Exhibit
Number

Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. Reports
Second-Quarter and Six-Month 2011 Results
    
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
1
PHOENIX, AZ, July 21, 2011 - Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (NYSE: FCX) reported second-quarter 2011 net income attributable to common stock of
$1.4 billion
,
$1.43
per share, compared with
$649 million
,
$0.70
per share, for second-quarter 2010. For the first six months of 2011, FCX reported net income attributable to common stock of
$2.9 billion
,
$3.00
per share, compared with
$1.5 billion
,
$1.70
per share, for the first six months of 2010.
James R. Moffett, Chairman of the Board, and Richard C. Adkerson, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Our second-quarter results reflect strong operating performance and favorable pricing for our products.  FCX's global team continues to execute our operating plans in an impressive fashion, producing significant quantities of copper, gold and molybdenum to meet growing global demand.  Our large resource position and successful exploration program provide significant opportunities for growth. We are advancing projects expeditiously to increase our production while generating attractive returns for shareholders.  Our strong financial position and cash flow generation provide the financial resources required for investment as well as substantial cash returns for shareholders."
SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
2
OPERATIONS
Consolidated.
Second-quarter 2011 consolidated copper sales of
1.0 billion
pounds were higher than the April 2011 estimate of
965 million
pounds primarily because of the timing of shipments, principally in North America. Second-quarter 2011 consolidated copper sales were also higher than second-quarter 2010 sales of
914 million
pounds reflecting increased production in North America and the timing of shipments in South America and Africa.
Second-quarter 2011 consolidated gold sales of
356 thousand
ounces were slightly lower than the April 2011 estimate of
365 thousand
ounces but higher than second-quarter 2010 sales of
298 thousand
ounces. These variances primarily reflect timing of mine sequencing at Grasberg.
Second-quarter 2011 consolidated molybdenum sales of
21 million
pounds were higher than the April 2011 estimate of
17 million
pounds and second-quarter 2010 sales of
16 million
pounds primarily reflecting improved demand.
Consolidated sales from mines for the year 2011 are expected to approximate
3.9 billion
pounds of copper,
1.6 million
ounces of gold and
77 million
pounds of molybdenum, including
940 million
pounds of copper,
415 thousand
ounces of gold and
18 million
pounds of molybdenum in third-quarter 2011.
Consolidated average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) of
$0.93
per pound of copper in second-quarter 2011 were lower than unit net cash costs of
$0.97
per pound in second-quarter 2010 primarily because of higher gold and molybdenum credits in second-quarter 2011, partly offset by higher site production and delivery costs as a result of increased mining and milling activities and higher input costs, including materials, energy and currency exchange rate impacts.
Assuming average prices of
$1,500
per ounce of gold and
$15
per pound of molybdenum for the second half of 2011 and achievement of current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates, consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for FCX's copper mining operations are expected to average approximately
$1.01
per pound of copper for the year 2011. The impact of price changes on consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.01 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold during the second half of 2011 and $0.01 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during the second half of 2011. Quarterly unit net cash costs vary with fluctuations in sales volumes.
North America Copper Mines.
FCX operates seven open-pit copper mines in North America - Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone and Chino in New Mexico. All of the North America mining operations are wholly owned, except for Morenci. FCX records its 85 percent joint venture interest in Morenci using the proportionate consolidation method. In addition to copper, the Morenci, Bagdad and Sierrita mines also produce molybdenum concentrates.
Operating and Development Activities.
At Morenci, FCX completed its project to ramp up mining rates to 635,000 metric tons of ore per day and milling rates to approximately 50,000 metric tons per day, resulting in an increase of 125 million pounds of copper per year.
FCX is advancing a feasibility study to expand mining and milling capacity at Morenci to process additional sulfide ores identified through positive exploratory drilling over the last few years. This project, which would require significant investment, would increase milling rates to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day and target incremental annual copper production of approximately 225 million pounds within three years, following completion of the feasibility study, expected by year-end 2011.
The ramp up of mining activities at the Miami mine continues. FCX expects production at Miami to ramp up to approximately 100 million pounds of copper per year by 2012.
During second-quarter 2011, FCX successfully restarted mining and milling activities at the Chino mine. Planned mining and milling rates are expected to be achieved by the end of 2013. Incremental annual copper production is expected to be 100 million pounds in 2012 and 2013 and 200 million pounds in 2014. Costs for the project associated with equipment and mill refurbishment are expected to approximate $150 million.
    
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
3
Operating Data.
Following is summary consolidated operating data for the North America copper mines for the second quarters and first six months of 2011 and 2010:
Consolidated copper sales volumes from North America of
331 million
pounds in second-quarter 2011 were higher than second-quarter 2010 sales of
289 million
pounds primarily reflecting higher production at the Morenci and Miami mines.
FCX expects sales from the North America copper mines to approximate 1.2 billion pounds of copper for the year 2011, compared with
1.1 billion
pounds of copper in 2010. The restart of the Miami and Chino mines and potential expansion of the Morenci mine are expected to further increase production in future periods.
As anticipated, average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the North America copper mines of
$1.36
per pound of copper in second-quarter 2011 were higher than unit net cash costs of
$1.17
per pound in second-quarter 2010, primarily reflecting increased mining and milling activities and higher input costs. Higher molybdenum credits partly offset the increased site production and delivery costs.
FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the North America copper mines would approximate $1.42 per pound of copper for the year 2011, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average molybdenum price of
$15
per pound for the second half of 2011. North America's average unit net cash costs for 2011 would change by approximately $0.025 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during the second half of 2011.
South America Mining.
FCX operates four copper mines in South America - Cerro Verde in Peru and El Abra, Candelaria and Ojos del Salado in Chile. FCX owns a 53.56 percent interest in Cerro Verde, a 51 percent interest in El Abra, and 80 percent of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining complexes. All operations in South America are consolidated in FCX's financial statements. South America mining includes open-pit and underground mining. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates, and the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver.
Operating and Development Activities.
During first-quarter 2011, FCX commenced production from El Abra's newly commissioned stacking and leaching facilities to transition from oxide to sulfide ores. Production from the sulfide ore, which is projected to reach design levels in the second half of 2011, is expected to approximate 300 million pounds of copper per year, replacing the currently depleting oxide copper production. The aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total $725 million through 2015, including $565 million for the initial phase of the project expected to be completed in 2011.
    
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
4
FCX is also engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries.
At Cerro Verde, the feasibility study for a large-scale concentrator expansion was completed in second-quarter 2011. The $3.5 billion project would expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper beginning in 2016. FCX expects to file an environmental impact assessment in the second half of 2011.
Operating Data.
Following is summary consolidated operating data for the South America mining operations for the second quarters and first six months of 2011 and 2010:
Copper sales from South America mining of
331 million
pounds in second-quarter 2011 were higher than second-quarter 2010 sales of
311 million
pounds primarily reflecting higher ore grades at Candelaria and timing of shipments at Cerro Verde, partly offset by lower mining rates at El Abra as it transitions from oxide to sulfide ores.
FCX expects South America's sales to approximate of 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold for the year 2011, similar to 2010 sales of 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 93 thousand ounces of gold.
Average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for South America of
$1.08
per pound of copper in second-quarter 2011 were lower than unit net cash costs of
$1.14
per pound in second-quarter 2010 primarily reflecting higher molybdenum, gold and silver credits, partly offset by higher treatment charges and higher site production and delivery costs, including materials, energy and currency exchange rate impacts.
FCX estimates that average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for South America mining would approximate $1.21 per pound of copper for the year 2011, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of
$15
per pound of molybdenum and
$1,500
per ounce of gold during the second half of 2011.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
5
Indonesia Mining.
Through its 90.64 percent owned and wholly consolidated subsidiary PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), FCX operates the world's largest copper and gold mine in terms of reserves at its Grasberg operations in Papua, Indonesia.
Operating and Development Activities.
FCX has several projects in process in the Grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit. In aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2016.
The Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, has been expanded to a capacity of 80,000 metric tons of ore per day; and a feasibility study for the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) has been completed. The high-grade Big Gossan mine, which began producing in fourth-quarter 2010, is expected to reach full rates of 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by the end of 2012. Substantial progress has been made in developing infrastructure and underground workings that will enable access to the underground ore bodies. Development of the terminal infrastructure and mine access for the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ ore bodies is in progress. Over the next five years, estimated aggregate capital spending is expected to average approximately $635 million ($500 million net to PT-FI) per year on underground development activities.
Operating Data.
Following is summary consolidated operating data for the Indonesia mining operations for the second quarters and first six months of 2011 and 2010:
At the Grasberg mine, the sequencing of mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. Copper sales from Indonesia of
265 million
pounds in second-quarter 2011 were slightly above second-quarter 2010 sales of
259 million
pounds. Gold sales of
330 thousand
ounces in second-quarter 2011 were higher than second-quarter 2010 sales of
276 thousand
ounces.
During July 2011, PT-FI union workers commenced an eight-day labor strike, which led to a temporary suspension of mining, milling and concentrate shipments. On July 11, 2011, PT-FI reached an agreement with the union to end the strike and operations have resumed. PT-FI estimates the aggregate impact on 2011 production to approximate 35 million pounds of copper and 60 thousand ounces of gold. PT-FI has commenced negotiations with the union for its bi-annual renewal of the collective labor agreement, which is scheduled for renewal in October 2011.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
6
FCX expects sales from Indonesia to approximate 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 1.45 million ounces of gold for the year 2011, compared with 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold for the year 2010.
Because of the fixed nature of a large portion of Indonesia's costs, unit costs vary from quarter to quarter depending on volumes of copper and gold sold during the period. Unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for Indonesia of
$0.22
per pound of copper in second-quarter 2011 were lower than unit net cash costs of
$0.58
per pound in second-quarter 2010 as higher gold credits more than offset increases in site production and delivery costs.
FCX estimates Indonesia's average unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.28 per pound of copper for the year 2011, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average gold price of $1,500 per ounce during the second half 2011. Indonesia's unit net cash costs for 2011 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold during the second half of 2011.
Africa Mining.
FCX currently holds an effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) copper and cobalt mining concessions in the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), which is consolidated in FCX's financial statements. FCX's interest in Tenke will be reduced to 56 percent after receiving the required government approval of the modifications to Tenke Fungurume Mining's bylaws that reflect the agreement with the DRC government. In addition to copper, the Tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide.
Operating and Development Activities.
The milling facilities at Tenke, which were designed to produce at a capacity rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, have performed above capacity, with throughput averaging 9,700 metric tons of ore per day in second-quarter 2011 and 10,200 metric tons of ore per day for the first six months of 2011. Mining rates have been increased to enable additional copper production from the initial project capacity of 250 million pounds per year to approximately 290 million pounds per year.
FCX is planning a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity. As part of the second phase, FCX is completing studies to expand the mill rate to 14,000 metric tons of ore per day and to construct related processing facilities that would target the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper per year in an approximate two-year timeframe. FCX expects production volumes from the project to expand significantly over time.
FCX continues to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at Tenke. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion.
Operating Data.
Following is summary consolidated operating data for the Africa mining operations for the second quarters and first six months of 2011 and 2010:
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
7
Copper sales from Africa of 75 million pounds in second-quarter 2011 were higher than second-quarter 2010 copper sales of 55 million pounds, primarily reflecting the timing of shipments.
FCX expects Africa's sales to approximate 275 million pounds of copper and over 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2011, compared with 262 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of cobalt for the year 2010.
Unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for Africa of $0.94 per pound of copper were higher than unit net cash costs of $0.79 per pound in second-quarter 2010, primarily reflecting increased mining and milling activity and higher input costs. Higher cobalt credits partly offset the increased production and delivery costs.
FCX estimates Africa's average unit net cash costs would approximate $0.97 per pound of copper for the year 2011, based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming an average cobalt price of
$14
per pound for the second half of 2011. Africa's unit net cash costs for 2011 would change by approximately $0.05 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt during the second half of 2011.
Molybdenum.
FCX is the world's largest producer of molybdenum. FCX conducts molybdenum mining operations at its wholly owned Henderson underground mine in Colorado, is developing the Climax molybdenum mine and sells molybdenum produced from its North and South America copper mines.
Development Activities.
Construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine are approximately 75 percent complete. Construction is expected to be complete in early 2012, and FCX plans to commence production during 2012. Production from the Climax molybdenum mine is expected to ramp up to a rate of 20 million pounds per year during 2013 and, depending on market conditions, may be increased to 30 million pounds per year. FCX intends to operate its Climax and Henderson molybdenum mines in a flexible manner to meet market requirements. FCX believes that Climax is one of the most attractive primary molybdenum development projects in the world, with large-scale production capacity, attractive cash costs and future growth options. Estimated remaining costs for the initial phase of the project approximate $250 million.
Operating Data.
Following is summary consolidated operating data for the Molybdenum operations for the second quarters and first six months of 2011 and 2010:
Consolidated molybdenum sales of
21 million
pounds were higher than the April 2011 estimate of
17 million
pounds and second-quarter 2010 sales of
16 million
pounds primarily reflecting improved demand.
For the year 2011, FCX expects molybdenum sales to approximate
77 million
pounds (including production of approximately 45 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines), compared with 67 million pounds in 2010 (including production of 32 million pounds from the North and South America copper mines).
    
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
8
Unit net cash costs at the Henderson mine of $6.21 per pound of molybdenum in second-quarter 2011 were higher than unit net cash costs of $5.73 per pound in second-quarter 2010, primarily reflecting higher input costs, including labor and materials.
Based on current sales volume and cost estimates, FCX expects average unit net cash costs for the Henderson mine would approximate $7.00 per pound of molybdenum for the year 2011.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
FCX is conducting exploration activities near its existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support the development of additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where it currently operates. Favorable exploration results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in North and South America and in the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. The drilling data in North America continue to indicate the potential for expanded sulfide production.
Exploration spending for the year 2011 is expected to approximate $250 million, compared with $113 million in 2010. Exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential for future reserve additions in FCX's existing minerals districts.
PROVISIONAL PRICING AND OTHER
For the first six months of 2011, 56 percent of FCX's mined copper was sold in concentrate, 22 percent as rod from North America operations and 22 percent as cathode. Under the long-established structure of sales agreements prevalent in the industry, substantially all of FCX's copper concentrate and cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment. The provisional prices are finalized in a contractually specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted London Metal Exchange (LME) monthly average spot prices. Because a significant portion of FCX's concentrate and cathode sales in any quarterly period usually remain subject to final pricing, the quarter-end forward price is a major determinant of recorded revenues and the average recorded copper price for the period. LME spot copper prices averaged $4.14 per pound during second-quarter 2011, compared to FCX's recorded average price of $4.22 per pound.
At March 31, 2011, FCX had provisionally priced copper sales at its copper mining operations totaling 464 million pounds (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $4.27 per pound. Lower prices during second-quarter 2011 resulted in adjustments to these provisionally priced copper sales and decreased second-quarter 2011 consolidated revenues by $47 million ($23 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.02 per share), compared with adjustments to the March 31, 2010, provisionally priced copper sales that decreased second-quarter 2010 consolidated revenues by $169 million ($72 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.08 per share). Adjustments to the December 31, 2010, provisionally priced copper sales resulted in a decrease to consolidated revenues of $12 million ($5 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.01 per share) for the first six months of 2011, compared with adjustments to the December 31, 2009, provisionally priced copper sales that resulted in a decrease to consolidated revenues of $23 million ($9 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.01 per share) for the first six months of 2010.
At June 30, 2011, FCX had provisionally priced copper sales at its copper mining operations totaling 435 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $4.27 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. FCX estimates that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the June 30, 2011, provisional price recorded would have an approximate $14 million effect on its 2011 net income attributable to common stock. The LME spot copper price on July 20, 2011, was $4.43 per pound.
FCX defers recognizing profits on its sales from its Indonesia and South America mining operations to Atlantic Copper and on 25 percent of Indonesia's mining sales to PT Smelting (PT-FI's 25 percent-owned Indonesian smelting unit) until final sales to third parties occur. FCX's net deferred profits on its Indonesia and South America concentrate inventories at Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting to be recognized in future periods' net income attributable to common stock totaled $218 million at June 30, 2011. Quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in FCX's net deferred profits and quarterly earnings.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
9
CASH FLOWS
FCX generated operating cash flows of $1.7 billion for second-quarter 2011 and $4.0 billion for the first six months of 2011. These amounts are net of working capital uses of $496 million for the second quarter and $382 million for the six-month period.
Based on current 2011 sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of
$4.25
per pound of copper,
$1,500
per ounce of gold and
$15
per pound of molybdenum for the second half of 2011, FCX's consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to exceed
$8 billion
for the year 2011. The impact of price changes on operating cash flows would approximate $80 million for each $0.05 per pound change in the average price of copper during the second half of 2011, $35 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold during the second half of 2011 and $40 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during the second half of 2011.
Capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $527 million for second-quarter 2011 and $1.0 billion for the first six months of 2011. FCX's capital expenditures are currently estimated to approximate
$2.6 billion
for the year 2011, including
$1.4 billion
for major projects and
$1.2 billion
for sustaining capital. Major projects for 2011 primarily include underground development activities at Grasberg, construction activities at the Climax molybdenum mine and completion of the initial phase of the sulfide ore project at El Abra. FCX is also considering additional investments at several of its sites. Capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors.
CASH AND DEBT
At June 30, 2011, FCX had consolidated cash of $4.4 billion. Net of noncontrolling interests' share, taxes and other costs, cash available to the parent company totaled $3.4 billion as shown below (in billions):
a. Includes cash at FCX's parent company and North America operations.
At June 30, 2011, FCX had $3.5 billion in debt. FCX had no borrowings and $43 million of letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facility resulting in total availability of approximately $1.5 billion at June 30, 2011. Since January 1, 2009, FCX has repaid $3.8 billion in debt resulting in estimated annual interest savings of approximately $270 million based on current interest rates.
FCX does not have significant debt maturities in the near term (a total of $5 million through 2016); however, FCX may consider opportunities to prepay debt in advance of scheduled maturities. FCX has $3.0 billion in debt that is redeemable in whole or in part, at its option, at make-whole redemption prices prior to April 2012, and afterwards at stated redemption prices.
FINANCIAL POLICY
FCX has a long-standing tradition of seeking to build shareholder value through investing in projects with attractive rates of return and returning cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and share purchases. On June 1, 2011, FCX paid a supplemental common stock dividend of $0.50 per share, which is in addition to FCX's current annual common stock dividend of $1.00 per share ($0.25 per share quarterly). FCX has paid common stock dividends of
$949 million
for the first six months of 2011, which includes $474 million for the supplemental dividend paid on June 1, 2011. FCX intends to continue to maintain a strong financial position, invest aggressively in attractive growth projects and provide cash returns to shareholders. The Board will continue to review FCX's financial policy on an ongoing basis.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
10
WEBCAST INFORMATION
A conference call with securities analysts to discuss FCX's second-quarter 2011 results is scheduled for today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call will be broadcast on the Internet along with slides. Interested parties may listen to the conference call live and view the slides by accessing www.fcx.com. A replay of the webcast will be available through Friday, August 19, 2011.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FCX is a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. FCX operates large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets with significant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold and molybdenum. FCX has a dynamic portfolio of operating, expansion and growth projects in the copper industry and is the world's largest producer of molybdenum.
The company's portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district, the world's largest copper and gold mine in terms of recoverable reserves; significant mining operations in the Americas, including the large-scale Morenci and Safford minerals districts in North America and the Cerro Verde and El Abra operations in South America; and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the DRC. Additional information about FCX is available on FCX's website at www.fcx.com.
Cautionary Statement and Regulation G Disclosure:
This press release contains forward-looking statements in which FCX discusses its potential future performance. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, mine production and development plans, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and potential share purchases. The words anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. The declaration of dividends is at the discretion of FCX's Board of Directors (the Board) and will depend on FCX's financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
FCX cautions readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and its actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that can cause FCX's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the potential effects of violence in Indonesia, the resolution of administrative disputes in the Democratic Republic of Congo, weather-related risks, labor relations, including the resolution of labor negotiations in Indonesia, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading Risk Factors in FCX's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as updated by our subsequent filings with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. Further, we may make changes to our business plans that could or will affect our results. We caution investors that we do not intend to update our forward-looking statements notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in our business plans, our actual experience, or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly.
This press release also contains certain financial measures such as unit net cash costs per pound of copper and per pound of molybdenum. As required by SEC Regulation G, reconciliations of these measures to amounts reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements are in the supplemental schedule, Product Revenues and Production Costs, beginning on page VII, which is available on FCX's website, www.fcx.com.
# # #
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
                                
11
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
.
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
PRODUCT REVENUES AND PRODUCTION COSTS
PRODUCT REVENUES AND UNIT NET CASH COSTS
Unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of FCX's mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. FCX uses this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by its mining operations. This information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although FCX's measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
FCX presents gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a by-product method and a co-product method. FCX uses the by-product method in its presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of its revenues are copper revenues, (ii) it mines ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of FCX's costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals it produces, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by FCX's management and Board of Directors to monitor operations. In the co-product method presentations, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent FCX's metals sales volumes and realized prices change.
FCX shows revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items. Because the copper pricing adjustments do not result from current period sales, FCX has reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. Noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, write-offs of equipment and/or unusual charges. They are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. As discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. Following are presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in FCX's consolidated financial statements.
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
XX
XXI
XXII
XXIII
XXIV
XXV
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
Following are summaries of the approximate amounts in the calculation of FCX's consolidated provision for income taxes for the second quarters and first six months of 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except percentages):
XXVI
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
FCX has organized its operations into five primary divisions - North America copper mines, South America mining, Indonesia mining, Africa mining and Molybdenum operations. Notwithstanding this structure, FCX internally reports information on a mine-by-mine basis. Therefore, FCX concluded that its operating segments include individual mines. Operating segments that meet certain thresholds are reportable segments, which are separately disclosed in the following table.
Intersegment Sales.
Intersegment sales between FCX's operations are based on similar arms-length transactions with third parties at the time of the sale. Intersegment sales may not be reflective of the actual prices ultimately realized because of a variety of factors, including additional processing, timing of sales to unaffiliated customers and transportation premiums.
Allocations.
FCX allocates certain operating costs, expenses and capital expenditures to the operating divisions and individual segments. However, not all costs and expenses applicable to a mine or operation are allocated. All U.S. federal and state income taxes are recorded and managed at the corporate level, whereas foreign income taxes are recorded and managed at the applicable country. In addition, most exploration and research activities are managed at the corporate level, and those costs along with some selling, general and administrative costs are not allocated to the operating divisions or segments. Accordingly, the following segment information reflects management determinations that may not be indicative of what the actual financial performance of each operating division or segment would be if it was an independent entity.
XXVII
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)
a. Includes PT Freeport Indonesia's sales to PT Smelting totaling
$653 million
in second-quarter 2011 and
$373 million
in second-quarter 2010.
XXVIII
FREEPORT-McMoRan COPPER & GOLD INC.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS (continued)
a. Includes PT Freeport Indonesia's sales to PT Smelting totaling
$1.3 billion
for the first six months of 2011 and
$859 million
for the first six months of 2010.
XXIX



