FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20031023083834.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 9 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On October 23, 2003, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST, Thursday, October 23, 2003
.
The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On October 23, 2003, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST, Thursday, October 23, 2003
.
The call and the slide presentation can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
Entergy's Earnings Releases contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Each non-GAAP measure in the Earnings Releases differs from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital, (ROIC) and return on equity, (ROE), are included on both an operational and as reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
/s/ Nathan E. Langston
Dated: October 23, 2003

 
 
 
For further information: Nancy Morovich, VP, Investor Relations Phone 504/576-5506, Fax 504/576-2897
 
INVESTOR NEWS
   
                                                                                                                                             & nbsp; 
nmorovi@entergy.com
Exhibit 99.1
October 23, 2003
 
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported third quarter 2003 earnings of $1.57 per share compared with $1.59 in the same period of 2002, with third quarter 2002 including a special item reflecting a gain on the sale of two development projects in Spain. Entergy's earnings on an operational basis were $1.57 per share in third quarter 2003 compared to $1.50 per share in third quarter 2002.
"Focusing on execution continues to result in consistent financial performance across our businesses," said . "The financial impact of the blackout experienced in the Northeast was more than overcome by solid results at the Utility and Entergy-Koch, LP. We remain committed to solid fundamentals in all aspects of our business as we drive toward our goal of continuous top quartile shareholder returns."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2003
Utility revenues are strengthened by approved rate relief put in place at Entergy Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans earlier in the year as well as a return to near normal weather, page 2.
Entergy Nuclear results are impacted by Northeast blackout and higher expense for refueling amortization partially offset by revenues from a full quarter of Vermont Yankee and uprates, page 5.
Entergy-Koch, LP achieves another strong quarter in trading, page 6.
Other third quarter events include:
Entergy signs an administrative services contract with the Nebraska Public Power District for the 800 MW Cooper Nuclear Station. The ten year contract is the first such third party services contract for a nuclear facility.
For the second consecutive year, Entergy met the stringent qualifications to retain its listing on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 2004. Entergy is one of only three U.S. utilities to be included on this index which considers members based on economic, environmental and social criteria.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss third quarter results at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Thursday, October 23, 2003 with access either by telephone, 913-981-5571, confirmation code 553475, or via website at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Table 1 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter and year-to-date 2003.
II.
U.S. Utility
In third quarter 2003, Utility as-reported and operational earnings were $1.17 per share, compared to $1.07 in third quarter 2002. The increase resulted primarily from improved pricing in connection with approved rate increases put into place at Entergy Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans during 2003, as well as the effects of near normal weather in 2003 compared to the milder-than-normal weather experienced in third quarter 2002.
Usage in the residential sector in third quarter 2003 was roughly equal to third quarter 2002. Commercial and governmental sales were up slightly, while industrial sales experienced an 8 percent decline quarter over quarter. The decline in industrial sales reflects the loss of three industrial customers to cogeneration since third quarter 2002. Excluding the loss of these customers, overall retail sales were down less than 1 percent quarter to quarter. A summary of sales volumes by customer class is included in Appendix A to this release.
 
Table 2 provides a summary of the Utility's key operational measures with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
Appendix C provides a summary of the Utility's pending regulatory cases and events by operating subsidiary.
III.
Parent & Other
Parent & Other recorded results in line with last year with an as-reported and operational loss per share of $(0.01) in third quarter 2003, compared with a loss of $(0.02) in third quarter 2002.
IV.
Competitive Businesses
As-reported earnings were $0.41 per share for the competitive businesses in third quarter 2003, compared to $0.54 in the same period of 2002. As-reported earnings in 2002 reflected a gain totaling $0.09 per share in connection with the sale of two development projects in Spain. On an operational basis, third quarter 2003 earnings per share were $0.41 compared to $0.45 in 2002. The decrease in third quarter 2003 reflects lower results at Entergy Nuclear partially offset by stronger performance at Entergy-Koch, LP.
 
Table 3 provides a 2003 vs. 2002 comparison of contributions by competitive business for third quarter and year-to-date, on both as-reported and operational bases.
 
Table 4 provides a summary of Entergy's Competitive Businesses' generation in MWh sold forward for the years 2003, 2004, and 2005. During third quarter 2003, Entergy entered into nine new contracts for Entergy Nuclear plant output and/or capacity. Transaction terms range from 2004 to 2007, and represent, on average, over 150 MW per year and $7 million of revenues per year.
(a) Two percent of EN's total planned generation sold forward in 2005 is associated with the Vermont Yankee contract for which pricing may be adjusted.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.25 per share, compared to $0.32 in third quarter 2002. The decrease was due primarily to reduced revenues as the result of the August 2003 blackout in the Northeast as well as the impact of lower pricing on a quarter to quarter basis. In addition, higher levels of expense associated with refueling amortization served to reduce third quarter 2003 results. The contribution of a full quarter's operations of Vermont Yankee, acquired at the end of July 2002, and the additional generation from uprates partially offset the impact of the decreases in earnings noted above. EN's average capacity factor was 93.6 percent for third quarter 2003, compared to 96.8 percent for the same period in 2002.
Average production costs increased modestly quarter to quarter due to higher refueling outage amortization expense resulting from planned refueling outages in fall 2002 and spring 2003. For the years 2003 and 2004, EN has sold 100 percent of the generation of its assets at average prices per megawatt hour of $36 and $38, respectively. In addition, 39 percent of 2005 output is currently under contract at an average price of $37 per megawatt hour.
Table 5 provides a summary of Entergy Nuclear's key operational measures with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
Energy Commodity Services
Energy Commodity Services (ECS) includes earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS recorded as-reported earnings of $0.16 per share in third quarter 2003, compared to $0.22 in the same period last year. The decrease in 2003 was due to the absence of a $0.09 gain reported in third quarter 2002 in connection with the sale of two development projects in Spain.
Operational earnings in third quarter 2003 were $0.16, compared to $0.13 in the same period of 2002, reflecting higher earnings at Entergy-Koch Trading (EKT), a subsidiary of Entergy-Koch, LP. While volatility was down compared to third quarter 2002, trading results reflected strong earnings in point-of-view trading. In addition, EKT's physical optimization business continued to be a key driver of profitability, and its European business contributed year over year increases as trading activities expanded beyond the UK. Earnings at Entergy-Koch's gas transportation subsidiary, Gulf South Pipeline, were $0.01 per share compared to $0.03 per share for third quarter 2002. Lower throughput and higher production costs impacted Gulf South's results. The decreased throughput was due to higher gas prices causing generally lower gas demand as industrial and power plant customers switch to fuel oil. Higher costs were primarily the result of incremental legal expenses in connection with Gulf So uth's defense of a lawsuit which it believes has no merit.
Finally, the income sharing mechanisms that are part of the Entergy-Koch partnership agreement allocated substantially all of the partnership's income to Entergy in third quarter 2003. It is expected that beginning in 2004, Entergy's share of the partnership's income will be 50 percent, consistent with its ownership interest.
Table 6 provides a summary of Energy Commodity Services' key operational measures with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
(b) Previously reported volumes, which included only U.S. trading, have been adjusted to reflect both U.S. and Europe volumes traded.
 
EKT's Average Daily Earnings at Risk (DEAR) during third quarter 2003 increased slightly to $12.1 million when compared to third quarter 2002. In addition to DEAR, EKT employs other risk measures that test whether or not overall risk is within acceptable limits. All of these measures were managed in accordance with established trading policies and procedures during the quarter.
Essentially all of the total market value of EKT's mark-to-market portfolio is based on actively quoted prices, and approximately 90 percent of EKT's counterparty credit exposure is associated with companies that currently have investment-grade credit ratings. Lastly, mark-to-market earnings comprised 11 percent of Entergy's consolidated operational earnings for third quarter 2003. On a year-to-date basis, mark-to-market earnings comprised 19 percent of Entergy's consolidated operational earnings.
 
 
Table 7 provides additional details on Entergy-Koch's trading activities during third quarter 2003.
V.
Variance Analysis
Tables 8 and 9 provide third quarter and year-to-date 2003 vs. 2002 earnings variance analyses for "U.S. Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
 
Footnotes to Tables 8 and 9 follow:
 
Net revenue increased in third quarter due primarily to higher revenues resulting from rate changes implemented during 2003, increased revenue from the competitive retail business and a return to near normal weather. Entergy's competitive retail business is currently operating within ERCOT and as a start-up is generating revenues but has not yet achieved profitability. Year-to-date net revenue decreased due primarily to the absence in 2003 of the impact of recording the ice storm settlement reached with the Arkansas Public Service Commission in 2002. This settlement resulted in previously deferred revenues at Entergy Arkansas per the Transition Cost Account mechanism being recorded in net revenue in second quarter 2002. Partially offsetting the settlement impact were higher revenues resulting from rate changes and increased revenue from the competitive retail business. In addition, regulatory credits, which show increases in third quarter and year-to-date periods, are offset by higher decommissioning expenses resulting from implementation of SFAS 143.
Net revenue decreased due to lower revenues at Entergy Nuclear resulting from the August blackout in the Northeast and from lower revenues in the non-nuclear wholesale assets business.
Interest expense and other charges decreased due to the absence of debt associated with the Damhead Creek power plant in the UK.
Other operation & maintenance expense decreased due primarily to the absence of Damhead Creek operations and lower development expenses.
Other income (deductions) increased due primarily to higher Entergy-Koch earnings.
Income statement line items are tax effected at the statutory rate. Any difference between the statutory and effective tax rate is reflected in the "Income taxes-other" line.
Nuclear refueling outage expense increased due to higher nuclear refueling outage amortization expense at Indian Point 2, Vermont Yankee and FitzPatrick where outages were completed in fourth quarter 2002, and Pilgrim and Indian Point 3, where outages were completed during second quarter 2003.
Decommissioning expense increased due to higher accretion expense on decommissioning liabilities resulting from implementation of SFAS 143, which is primarily offset by regulatory credits captured in net revenue to reflect anticipated recovery of these expenses.
Asset/contract impairments and restructuring charges at the Competitive Businesses primarily reflect prior year's impact of recording costs associated with impairment reserves related to certain non-nuclear wholesale assets.
Cumulative effect of accounting change reflects implementation of SFAS 143, a new accounting standard which required the revaluation of certain assets and liabilities associated with nuclear decommissioning.
Other operation & maintenance expense decreased due primarily to the absence of Entergy Arkansas' ice storm settlement, $(0.44), recorded in second quarter 2002.
Other income (deductions) decreased primarily due to a loss provision recorded in second quarter 2003, $(0.29), as a result of an unfavorable court decision in Texas on previously-disallowed River Bend construction costs.
 
Table 10 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Special items are those events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share results but are excluded from operational earnings per share. The timing of recording such items is made in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
VI.
Cash and Liquidity
Entergy generated $651 million in operating cash in third quarter 2003, a decrease of $216 million compared to third quarter 2002. Higher tax payments, increased deferred fuel costs, and the impact of the blackout in the Northeast all contributed to the decrease in operating cash. In addition, increased levels of working capital reduced cash flow in third quarter 2003 compared to the same period last year. Entergy expects the combination of fourth quarter 2003 net income plus depreciation, fuel cost recovery and working capital changes, will result in full year operating cash flow that approximates $1.9 billion, consistent with its previous full-year projection.
Table 11 provides operating cash flow information with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons for Utility, Parent & Other, Entergy Nuclear, and Energy Commodity Services.
Energy Commodity Services' operating cash flow includes contributions from Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP that are recognized in Entergy Corporation's financial statements (such as dividends received and taxes paid).
At the end of third quarter 2003, Entergy's combined cash balance and unused capacity on bank revolvers totaled more than $1.7 billion, comprised of $578 million of cash and cash equivalents and unused revolver capacity of $1.13 billion at the Parent and Utility subsidiaries.  Entergy's corporate revolver combined with the ability of the Parent to issue term debt, $650 million of which has been issued since December 2002, provides the company with substantial liquidity and financial flexibility.
As detailed in Table 12, Entergy expects to have significant cash available through 2005 primarily for three potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, and dividend increases. Sources shown on the table include $1.7 billion of new debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. This amount could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. The table also reflects the impact of Entergy's Board of Directors' decision on July 27, 2003, to approve a 29 percent increase in the Entergy common dividend to $1.80 per share on an annual basis.
 
Table 12 provides a summary of projected sources and uses of cash for the period from October 1, 2003 through the end of 2005.
 
 
VII.
Other Financial Performance Highlights
As-reported net margin was 11.62 percent, an increase of more than 5 percentage points over third quarter 2002, while operational net margin improved approximately 1 percentage point over last year to 10.81 percent. Return on equity, on an as-reported basis, increased by more than 5 percentage points to 12.56 percent while operational return on equity was nearly 12 percent.
Entergy's capital structure remains within the target range of 45 to 50 percent net debt to net capital. Entergy's off-balance sheet debt, exclusive of operating leases, equals $387 million and constitutes only 2 percent of total capitalization.
 
Table 13 provides a summary of financial measures with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
(p) As-reported metrics are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items. Operational metrics are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items. Reconciliations of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share can be found in Appendix B.
VIII.
Capital Expenditures
Entergy's capital plan from 2003 through 2005 includes $3.7 billion for investment; $2.9 billion of this amount is associated with capital projects that maintain Entergy's existing assets. The remaining $0.8 billion is associated with previously identified investments such as the steam generator replacement at Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 1, nuclear plant power uprates at Entergy Nuclear, the costs associated with the recently completed gas-fired power plant in Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business, and a previously deferred equity investment for Entergy's interest in Entergy-Koch.
Table 14 provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the period 2003 through 2005.
 
 
 
IX.
Debt Refinancing
Entergy has $173 million of debt that matures in the remainder of 2003, $111 million or 64 percent of which is associated with the Utility. The remaining Utility maturity is expected to be refinanced in fourth quarter 2003. Entergy expects to fund, (i.e., retire), the remaining Entergy Nuclear 2003 maturity with cash. During third quarter 2003, $540 million of debt maturities were refinanced. Refinancing activity may be modified periodically in response to changing market conditions and capital needs.
Table 15 provides details on Entergy's 2003 debt maturities and refinancing activity.
(q) Long-term debt, including current portion.
X.
Earnings Guidance
"With three quarters of 2003 behind us we feel confident in our ability to achieve our financial objectives this year," said . "Each of our businesses continues to respond well to challenges ranging from depressed energy markets to a struggling economy and even highly unusual regional blackout conditions. We have clear visibility on 2003 earnings and are therefore adjusting our guidance to a range of $4.15 to $4.25 per share on an operational basis, which is at the upper end of our previous guidance range of $4.05 to $4.25 per share. We will record a special charge in fourth quarter 2003, estimated to be $0.35 to $0.45 per share, in connection with our voluntary severance program. This charge will impact as-reported earnings and we therefore are adjusting our as-reported 2003 guidance range to $4.02 to $4.22 per share. Finally, our businesses going forward are very solid and thus we affirm as-reported and operation al earnings guidance for 2004 in the range of $4.10 to $4.30 per share."
C. John Wilder, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy's 2003 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 16 below, with September 2003 year-to-date actual results as its starting point. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses for the remainder of 2003 based upon how the fourth quarter of 2003 is expected to differ from the fourth quarter of 2002.
Excludes 4Q02 disproportionate sharing.
Remainder of year at 50%, consistent with Entergy's ownership share.
Entergy's full-year 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 17. In contrast to 2003 guidance, the 2004 guidance table combines results from the Utility with Parent & Other to better reflect the way Entergy views and manages these businesses. Key assumptions reflected in the earnings ranges are as follows:
Approximately 65 percent of 2004 earnings are expected from the Utility, Parent & Other. Earnings guidance is based on existing rate plans, including the full-year impact of the rate increase put into effect June 3, 2003 at Entergy New Orleans. Incremental revenues expected in 2004 are also the result of sales growth in the 1.5 to 2.0 percent range. Earnings will also benefit from decreased interest expense and lower O&M expense driven by productivity improvements at the Utility. Increases in depreciation and other expenses are expected to partially offset these earnings improvements at Utility.
 
More than 25 percent of 2004 earnings are expected from Entergy Nuclear. Increased revenues will be generated by an approximate $2 increase in the pricing of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $38 in 2004. A year-over-year increase in revenues will also be driven by 46 MW of power uprates completed during 2003 and the absence of the 2003 blackout. Earnings should also increase as a result of productivity improvements that will lower O&M expense. EN has sold 100 percent of the 2004 expected output of its generating assets at prices that range from $29 to $43 per megawatt hour and assumes that the remaining unsold capacity will be sold either through bilateral contracts or through the auction process. The capacity factor assumption for the fleet ranges from 92 to 95 percent, and includes planned refueling outages at Vermont Yankee in spring 2004, and at FitzPatrick and Indian Point 2 in fall 2004.
Energy Commodity Services' guidance is based on contribution from Entergy-Koch assuming 50 percent sharing of income, consistent with Entergy's ownership share. The guidance range also reflects conservative expectations for commodity trading, lower pricing for the non-nuclear wholesale assets business, and modest year-over-year pipeline growth.
Entergy's 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 17 below, with the operational guidance midpoint for 2003 earnings as its data starting points.
Excludes 2003 disproportionate sharing.
 
XI.
Earnings Growth Objectives
One of Entergy's financial aspirations is to deliver near-term earnings growth of 8-10 percent, comprised of 6 percent intrinsic growth and 2-4 percnet growth from asset acquisitions. Entergy acknowledges that this goal is only reasonably achievable if additional investments are made beyond those included in the plan. Entergy has consistently maintained a disciplined policy that requires new investments to exceed (on an ex ante basis) the incremental average project cost of capital while maintaining corporate credit metrics. The capital is expected to be available to fund additional investments consistent with Entergy's credit objectives.
Over the long term, Entergy aspires to deliver earnings growth of 5-6 percent, equal to top-quartile industry growth over the last 20 years. Entergy's other financial aspirations include achieving a return of 9 percent on average invested capital in the near term, and 10 percent in the long term; achieving a single A credit rating over the long term by maintaining or improving its 45-50 percent net debt to net capital ratio and 4 times or better interest coverage; and growing the dividend annually, consistent with progress made toward the achievement of all financial aspirations.
 
 
 
XII.
Appendices
The four appendices that follow provide additional detail on sales, statistics, regulatory information and definitions.
Appendix A provides details of kwh sales and customer statistics for the Utility.
Appendix B provides a summary of quarterly performance measures.
(u) As-reported metrics are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items. Operational metrics are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided here.
Appendix C provides a summary of the key regulatory cases and events that are pending.
Appendix D provides definitions of certain operational and financial performance measures referenced in this release.
 
Teleconference and Webcast Details
Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Thursday, October 23, 2003. The call can be accessed by dialing 913-981-5571; the confirmation code is 553475. Please call no more than 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. The call can also be accessed and the presentation slides can be viewed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days following the teleconference by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 553475. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
************************************************************************************************************************************
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
From time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to dif fer materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions, and other regulatory decisions, including those related to Entergy's utility supply plan, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its Non-Utility Nuclear generating facilities including the uncertainty of negotiations with unions to agree to such reductions, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities - - particularly the ability to extend or replace the existing power purchase agreements for the Non-Utility Nuclear plants - - and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, Entergy-Koch's profitability in trading electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the number of participants in the energy trading market, and in their creditworthiness and risk profile, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in inflation and interest rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, and other ene rgy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, and the establishment of SeTrans or another regional transmission organization, changes in regulation of nuclear generating facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of Indian Point or other nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from proposed federal energy legislation, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, and other substances, the economic climate, and particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather, hurricanes, and other disasters, advances in technology, the potential impacts of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce taxes, the effects of litigation, changes in accounting standards, changes in corporate gov ernance and securities law requirements and Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
NEWS RELEASE
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today announced third quarter 2003 as-reported and operational earnings of $365.8 million or $1.57 per share. This compares with as-reported earnings of $360.9 million, or $1.59 per share, and operational earnings of $340 million, or $1.50 per share, in third quarter 2002.
Third quarter 2002 as-reported earnings included a gain of $20.9 million, or 9 cents per share, associated with the sale of development projects in Spain which were part of Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business.
"Focusing on execution continues to result in consistent financial performance across our businesses," said . "The financial impact of the blackout experienced in the Northeast was more than overcome by solid results at the Utility and Entergy-Koch, LP. We remain committed to solid fundamentals in all aspects of our business as we drive toward our goal of continuous top quartile shareholder returns."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Utility results higher due to rate changes in 2003 and more normal weather
Entergy Nuclear results lower due primarily to reduced revenues resulting from the Northeast blackout in August and higher expense associated with the amortization of nuclear refueling expenses
Energy Commodity Services results higher due to strong trading operations
In addition, for the second consecutive year, Entergy met the stringent qualifications and criteria to retain listing on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 2004. The company is one of only three U.S. utilities to be listed on the index where companies are selected based on economic, environmental and social criteria.
Utility as-reported and operational earnings in third quarter 2003 were $272.9 million, or $1.17 per share, compared to $243.7 million, or $1.07 per share, in third quarter 2002. The increase resulted primarily from improved pricing in connection with rate increases put into place at Entergy Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans during 2003, as well as the effects of near normal weather in 2003 compared to milder-than-normal weather experienced in third quarter 2002.
Usage in the residential sector in third quarter 2003 was roughly equal to third quarter 2002. Commercial and governmental sales were up slightly, while industrial sales experienced an 8 percent decline quarter over quarter. The decline in industrial sales reflects the loss of three industrial customers to cogeneration since third quarter 2002. Excluding the loss of these customers, overall retail sales were down less than 1 percent quarter to quarter.
The competitive businesses, which are comprised of Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services, recorded as-reported and operational earnings of $95.9 million, or 41 cents per share for third quarter 2003. This compares to as-reported earnings in third quarter 2002 of $121.4 million, or 54 cents per share, and $100.5 million, or 45 cents per share, in operational earnings for that period. Third quarter 2002 as-reported earnings included a gain of $20.9 million, or 9 cents per share, associated with the sale of development projects in Spain which were part of Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business.
Excluding this gain, which was recorded as a special item, operational earnings for the competitive businesses decreased 5 percent as a result of lower earnings at Entergy Nuclear partially offset by stronger results at Entergy-Koch, LP.
earned $59.6 million, or 25 cents per share, on an as-reported basis, compared to $73.1 million, or 32 cents per share, in third quarter 2002. Operational results in each period equaled as-reported results. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to the revenue impact of the August 2003 blackout in the Northeast, where three nuclear units were shutdown for varying periods, as well as increased expenses associated with nuclear refueling outage amortization. The higher refueling outage expense reflects the impact of planned refueling outages in fall 2002 and spring 2003, the expenses for which are being amortized in 2003 results.
Entergy Nuclear
, which includes earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets, recorded as-reported earnings of $36.3 million, or 16 cents per share, in third quarter 2003, compared to a $48.3 million, or 22 cents per share, in the same period last year. The decrease in 2003 was due to the absence of a gain of $20.9 million, or 9 cents per share, included in third quarter 2002 results. This gain resulted from the sale, in third quarter 2002, of two development projects in Spain.
Energy Commodity Services
Operational earnings in third quarter 2003 were $36.3 million, or 16 cents per share, compared to $27.4 million, or 13 cents per share, in the same period of 2002 reflecting higher earnings at Entergy-Koch Trading, a subsidiary of Entergy-Koch, LP. Third quarter 2003 earnings from Entergy-Koch's gas transportation subsidiary, Gulf South Pipeline, were lower compared to the same period in 2002. The income sharing mechanisms that are part of the Entergy-Koch partnership agreement allocated substantially all of the partnership's income to Entergy in the third quarter of 2003.
In third quarter 2003, Parent & Other recorded essentially flat results compared to the same period in 2002 with an as-reported loss of $3.1 million, or 1 cent per share, in third quarter 2003, compared with a loss of $4.2 million, or 2 cents per share, in third quarter 2002. Operational results in each period equaled as-reported results.
"With three quarters of 2003 behind us we feel confident in our ability to achieve our financial objectives this year," said . "Each of our businesses continues to respond well to challenges ranging from depressed energy markets to a struggling economy and even highly unusual regional blackout conditions. We have clear visibility on 2003 earnings and are therefore adjusting our guidance to a range of $4.15 to $4.25 per share on an operational basis, which is at the upper end of our previous guidance range of $4.05 to $4.25 per share. We will record a special charge in fourth quarter 2003, estimated to be $0.35 to $0.45 per share, in connection with our voluntary severance program. This charge will impact as-reported earnings and we therefore are adjusting our as-reported 2003 guidance range to $4.02 to $4.22 per share. Finally, our businesses going forward are very solid and thus we affirm as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2004 in the range of $4.10 to $4.30 per share."
C. John Wilder, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production, retail distribution operations, energy marketing and trading, and gas transportation. Entergy owns and operates power plants with about 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Through Entergy-Koch, LP, it is also a leading provider of wholesale energy marketing and trading services, as well as an operator of natural gas pipeline and storage facilities. Entergy has annual revenues of over $8 billion and more than 15,000 employees.
 
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
From time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual result s to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, various performance-based rate discussions, and other regulatory decisions, including those related to Entergy's utility supply plan, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its Non-Utility Nuclear generating facilities including the uncertainty of negotiations with unions to agree to such reductions, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities - - particularly the ability to extend or replace the existing power purchase agreements for the Non-Utility Nuclear plants - - and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities,
Entergy-Koch's profitability in trading electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the number of participants in the energy trading market, and in their creditworthiness and risk profile changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in inflation and interest rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, and the establishment of SeTrans or another regional transmission organization, changes in regulation of nuclear generating facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of Indian Point or other nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from proposed federal energy legislation, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, and other substances, the economic climate, and particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather, hurricanes, and other disasters, advances in technology, the potential impacts of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce taxes, the effects of litigation, changes in account ing standards, changes in corporate governance and securities law requirements and Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
This earnings release includes non-GAAP measures when describing Entergy's results of operations and financial performance. We have prepared a reconciliation of each of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in Entergy's investor release which is posted on our website at
www.entergy.com/earnings
.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3


