FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20030408151245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
On April 8, 2003, Entergy-Koch Trading, LP issued a release to certain investors, which is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                                                                                            Entergy Corporation                                                                                                             By:                                                                                                                      Nathan E. Langston                                                                                                                Senior Vice President and                                                                                                                  Chief Accounting Officer
/s/ Nathan E. Langston
 
Dated: April 8, 2003

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
April 8, 2003 Stephanie Goodman Director, Corporate Communications Entergy-Koch, LP 713-544-5215
For Immediate Release:
 
 
Houston, TX - Entergy-Koch Trading, LP announced today that it received a subpoena from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission seeking information on its gas and power trading activities. Entergy-Koch Trading, which is conducting a review of 2000 and 2001 trading activities in response to a March 26, 2003 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Staff Report, indicated it will respond to the CFTC inquiry in a timely manner.
Entergy-Koch Trading, LP (EKT) is a top marketer of energy in North America, trading natural gas, power, weather risk management, and other energy related products. EKT is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy-Koch, LP, which is a joint venture between subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation and Koch Energy, Inc.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production, retail distribution operations, energy marketing and trading, and gas transportation. Entergy owns and operates power plants with about 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Through Entergy-Koch, LP, it is also a leading provider of wholesale energy marketing and trading services, as well as an operator of natural gas pipeline and storage facilities. Entergy has annual revenues of over $8 billion and more than 15,000 employees.


