FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20041021080534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On October 21, 2004, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases"), which are incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Thursday, October 21, 2004 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 7.01 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On October 21, 2004, Entergy issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Thursday, October 21, 2004 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
On October 21, 2004, Entergy issued a public announcement, attached as exhibits 99.5 hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  
/s/ Nathan E. Langston
 
Dated: October 21, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
INVESTOR NEWS
October 21, 2004
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported third quarter 2004 earnings of $1.22 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.39 on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2004
Utility, Parent & Other results were 4 percent lower compared to third quarter 2003 due primarily to extremely mild weather and higher operation and maintenance expenses.
Entergy Nuclear results increased 12 percent over the same period last year due to improved contract pricing and reevaluation of decommissioning liabilities, partially offset by lower generation due to plant outages.
Energy Commodity Services results were significantly lower due to a loss recorded at Entergy-Koch, LP.
"The mildest weather in more than a decade impacted our results this quarter but the underlying strength of our business fundamentals remains sound," said . "Sales in the utility reflected solid growth, after adjusting for the unusual weather, our nuclear business recorded improved results in spite of several unplanned outages, and we continue to distribute value created to our shareholders with the second stepwise increase in the dividend in less than two years."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
 
Other Quarterly Highlights:
Entergy confirms $1.5 billion share repurchase with the announcement that a definitive agreement had been reached to sell the energy trading business of Entergy-Koch, LP to Merrill Lynch & Co.
Entergy's Board of Directors approves a 20 percent increase in the common stock dividend effective for the December 1 payment following a 29 percent increase in the dividend approved in July 2003.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Thursday, October 21, 2004, with access by telephone, 913-981-5532, confirmation code 211385. The call can also be accessed and the presentation slides can be viewed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days following the teleconference by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 211385. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter and year-to-date 2004 versus 2003, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendices A-1 and A-2 to this release. In addition, appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2004 was $785 million, an increase of $134 million compared to third quarter 2003. The change was due primarily to:
Increased recovery of previously deferred fuel expense at Utility.
Increased revenues resulting from improved contract pricing at Entergy Nuclear.
Lower tax payments at Energy Commodity Services.
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities year-to-date through September 2004 increased more than $500 million compared to the same period in 2003. Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities for the full year 2004 is projected to be more than $2 billion.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
(a) Energy Commodity Services' cash amount above includes contributions from Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP that are recognized in Entergy Corporation's financial statements such as dividends received and taxes paid.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In third quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other earned $1.11 per share on both as-reported and operational earnings bases compared to third quarter 2003 results of $1.16 per share. Earnings in third quarter 2004 reflect:
Extremely mild weather in 2004 compared to near normal weather experienced in third quarter 2003.
Higher operation and maintenance expenses due primarily to the continuation of increased employee benefits expenses, referenced in second quarter results, and timing differences.
Lower interest expense due to debt refinancing efforts in 2003.
Reevaluation of the decommissioning liability, in connection with the preparation of a new study in July 2004, to reflect life extension on the River Bend nuclear plant.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4 below. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Residential sales in third quarter 2004, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 2 percent compared to third quarter 2003.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up nearly 4 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of nearly 5 percent in third quarter 2004 compared to prior quarter with usage by the petroleum refining, chemical and primary metals sectors leading the growth.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
O&M expense per megawatt hour has been redefined for current and comparable periods to reflect billed megawatt-hour sales as the denominator instead of megawatt-hours generated as previously used in the calculation.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
 
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the third quarter 2004.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 100%, 95%, and 79% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $38, $39 and $39, for the remainder of 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has sold 62%, 58% and 42% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $23, $24 and $24, for the same periods.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.28 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2004, compared to $0.25 per share in third quarter 2003. Improvement in EN's earnings for third quarter 2004 resulted primarily from:
Increased revenue due to higher contract pricing and the addition of a support services contract for the Cooper Nuclear Station.
A reduction in the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.143 decommissioning liability to reflect changes in assumptions on probability of life extension which were evaluated as part of recent updates of decommissioning related studies.
These positive effects were partially offset by lower generation due to unplanned and planned outages during the period at Vermont Yankee, Indian Point 2 and FitzPatrick.
Other Entergy Nuclear highlights included:
Capacity factor for the fleet continued above 90% for third quarter 2004 in spite of three unplanned outages; year-to-date capacity factor is nearly 95%.
Average production costs increased due to a combination of lower generation and higher operation and maintenance expenses in third quarter 2004 compared to one year ago. On a year-to-date basis, production costs reflect a 9% decrease compared to the same period in 2003.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Energy Commodity Services
Energy Commodity Services (ECS) includes the earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. Entergy-Koch incurred a loss of $(0.19) per share on an as-reported basis in third quarter 2004 compared to earnings of $0.18 per share in the same period of 2003. Factors that contributed to the quarter to quarter decrease were:
A change in the venture's ability to apply hedge accounting to certain transactions as a result of signing a definitive agreement to sell its energy trading business. Because of the pending sale, EKLP's auditors deemed the company unable to represent that forward sales entered into to offset physical positions were "probable" as required by the accounting literature.
The exclusion for accounting purposes of the mark-to-market value of certain contracts entered into to hedge physical gas storage positions because they do not meet the requirements under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 for deferring the mark-to-market change in equity rather than recording it in income.
These two items comprised substantially all of the loss at EK for the period, but are expected to turnaround when the sale of the trading business is closed. This turnaround effect will be considered in Entergy's determination of the overall gain or loss on the sales of trading and pipeline businesses as well as termination of the venture. Gulf South Pipeline contributed $0.02 in earnings per share in third quarter 2004 compared to $0.01 per share in the same period last year.
Earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP are excluded from ECS operational earnings consistent with Entergy's announcement in September 2004 of the sale of EKLP's trading business and its intent to sell Gulf South Pipeline. ECS had no earnings on an operational basis in third quarter 2004, compared to earnings of $0.16 per share in the same period last year reflecting the inclusion of earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP, as discussed above.
Appendix C includes additional information on Entergy-Koch LP's operational performance.
 
IV.
Earnings Guidance
"We project operational earnings in the range of $3.70 to $3.80 per share for full year 2004 in spite of the disappointing results produced this quarter due to the mild weather we experienced across our service territory," said . "We are reaffirming 2005 guidance in the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases. Key assumptions supporting this guidance include normal weather, the continued successful execution of operating strategies across our businesses and the planned share repurchases under our previously announced $1.5 billion program."
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer
The company revised 2004 as-reported earnings guidance to a range of $3.65 to $3.75 per share from a previous range of $3.83 to $4.03 per share to reflect special items recorded in the third quarter 2004. As-reported earnings guidance may be further revised in the future to reflect 1) actual results realized by Entergy-Koch, LP in the fourth quarter and 2) any gain or loss which is expected to result from the combination of the sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline and the liquidation of the Entergy-Koch, LP at such time as the amount of the gain or loss can be reasonably estimated (as described in the company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 2, 2004). Entergy does not expect any significant gains or losses to result from these asset sales and the EKLP liquidation in 2004 or 2005.
Entergy's 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 on the following page, with September 2004 year-to-date actual results as its starting point. This table contains "forward looking statements" as defined on page 22 and should be read in conjunction with that section of this release. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses for the remainder of 2004 based upon how the fourth quarter of 2004 is expected to differ from the same period in 2003. Entergy-Koch's year-to-date earnings contribution and earnings projected through closing are treated as a special item, thereby impacting 2004 as-reported but not operational earnings per share.
Other key assumptions are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Baseline operational earnings for the last quarter of 2003 of $0.16 per share in earnings per share after adjusting for $0.03 per share of unfavorable weather
Net improvement in revenues achieved by sales growth in the range of 1.5 to 2.0%
Decreased O&M expense due to the turnaround of third quarter timing differences and lower competitive retail expenses
Entergy Nuclear
Baseline operational earnings for the last quarter of 2003 of $0.24 in earnings per share
Increased revenues from higher contract pricing in 2004 compared to 2003
Lower operation and maintenance and other expenses resulting from productivity improvement initiatives designed to reduce overall costs within the competitive nuclear fleet
Decreased revenues due to more refueling outages (refueling outages at FitzPatrick and Indian Point 2 in fourth quarter 2004 vs. none in fourth quarter 2003)
Energy Commodity Services
Baseline operational earnings for the last quarter of 2003 of ($0.07) in earnings per share, excluding earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP
Reduced losses at non-nuclear wholesale assets due to improved plant performance and reduced overhead expenses
 
 
Appendix D provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Entergy's 2005 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 8 below, with the midpoint of 2004 guidance as its starting point. Guidance for 2005 is based on the assumption that the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading is completed prior to year-end 2004 and the sale of Gulf South Pipeline is imminent at year-end, and further, that the company executes incremental share repurchases under its recently announced $1.5 billion repurchase program. Other key assumptions are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Increased revenue from the impact of rate cases and sales growth projected in the 1.5 to 2.0% range
Increased operation and maintenance expenses associated with inflation, benefits costs and assets acquired under the generation supply plan
Decreased interest expense
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Entergy Nuclear
Increased revenues due to an approximate $1 per megawatt hour increase in the pricing of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $39 per megawatt-hour in 2005
Increased revenues due to power uprates completed
Capacity factor assumption for the fleet ranges from 92 to 95% including planned refueling outages at Indian Point 3 and Pilgrim in spring 2005 and Vermont Yankee in fall 2005
Lower operation and maintenance expense achieved from additional productivity improvements at Entergy Nuclear
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased losses from non-nuclear wholesale assets
Entergy-Koch, LP
No contribution based on the September 2004 announcement of the pending sale of EKLP's trading business and the intended sale of Gulf South Pipeline. Any earnings recorded on either business will be treated as special items
Share Repurchase Program
Repurchases of 17 to 22 million shares are completed from August 2004 through December 2005 under the announced $1.5 billion repurchase program
 
 
V.
Growth and Liquidity Aspirations
One of Entergy's financial aspirations is to deliver near-term earnings growth of 8-10% in 2005 and 2006. The company believes that this goal can be reasonably achieved through a combination of intrinsic growth and accretion due to share repurchases. Other financial aspirations include improving returns on invested capital, achieving various credit metric improvements and providing annual dividend increases.
Over the long-term, Entergy also aspires to deliver earnings growth of 5-6%, equal to top-quartile industry growth over the last 20 years, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to achieve a single-A credit rating. The company's ability to achieve or exceed these aspirations will be based upon a combination of intrinsic growth, accretion due to share repurchases and the deployment of capital into new investments over time.
 
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital deployment for the period 2004 through 2006. After considering a range of potential proceeds from the anticipated sale of Entergy-Koch, LP, Entergy expects to have $1.4 billion of cash available over the 2004-2006 period for three potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt, or dividend increases. Sources shown on the table include additional debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. This amount could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Similarly, share repurchases reflected on the table are based upon the $1.5 billion program currently in place, as well as the existing authorization in place to fund the exercise of employee stock options. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or mate rial new investment opportunities.
Appendix F-1 provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendix F-2 includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
Appendix C provides details on Entergy-Koch, LP's operating activities in the current period.
Appendix D provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Appendix E provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix F provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years along with a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAPP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix H provides a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
Appendix A-1 and A-2 provide details of third quarter and year-to-date 2004 vs. 2003 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
 
Net revenue increased in third quarter 2004 due primarily to the reduction of
asset sale reserves and higher revenues from Entergy Nuclear due primarily to improved pricing. For the year-to-date period, net revenue increased due to higher revenue at Entergy Nuclear resulting from higher pricing and fewer planned and unplanned outages.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased for the quarter due primarily to higher benefits expenses and timing. The year-to-date increase was due primarily to higher benefits and customer support expenses as well as higher expenses in the competitive retail business.
Other income (deductions) for the quarter increased due primarily to a reevaluation of River Bend's decommissioning liability. The year-to-date increase was due primarily to the absence of the River Bend loss provision recorded in second quarter 2003.
Other income (deductions) decreased due primarily to lower Entergy-Koch earnings partially offset by a reevaluation of decommissioning liabilities at Entergy Nuclear.
Interest expense and other charges decreased due primarily to debt retirements and refinancings completed in 2003.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased year-to-date due primarily to productivity improvements achieved at Entergy Nuclear.
Cumulative effect of accounting changes primarily reflects the financial impact of the implementation of SFAS 143, the effect of which was originally recorded in first quarter 2003.
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
Appendix B-1 provides a summary of the selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
Appendix B-2 provides a calendar of selected regulatory events scheduled or anticipated through 2quarter 2005.
nd
 
 
Appendix C provides additional details on Entergy-Koch, LP's operational performance during the third quarter and year-to-date periods for 2004.
Appendix D provides estimates of the impact to operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense variables. These estimates are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance, and are based upon changes in variables which would result in increases to earnings per share. Equivalent decreases in earnings per share are estimated to result from variable changes in the opposite direction.
(k) Based on current fully diluted shares of approximately 230 million.
 
 
Appendix E-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix E-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix H-1.
 
O&M expense per megawatt hour has been redefined for current and comparable periods to reflect billed megawatt hour sales as the denominator instead of megawatt hours generated as previously used in the calculation.
 
Appendix F-1 provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2004 through 2006 includes $3.8 billion for investment; $2.6 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.2 billion is associated with previously identified investments such as the steam generator replacement at Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 1, nuclear plant power uprates at Entergy Nuclear and Utility, the purchase of the Perryville plant, and a previously deferred equity investment for Entergy's interest in Entergy-Koch. Entergy will update its capital plan when fourth quarter 2004 earnings are reported to reflect new estimates for the period 2005 through 2007.
Appendix F-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
Appendices H-1 and H-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
************************************************************************************************************************************
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its non-utility nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, the completion of the sale of Entergy-Koch's U.S. and foreign trading businesses, the ability to sell Entergy-Koch's Gulf South Pipeline at attractive prices, the amount of cash that Entergy-Koch is able to distribute to Entergy, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the energy trading ma rket, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
News Release
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported third quarter 2004 as-reported earnings of $282.2 million, or $1.22 per share, and operational earnings of $321.4 million, or $1.39 per share. This compares with as-reported and operational earnings of $365.8 million, or $1.57 per share, in third quarter 2003.Special items in the third quarter 2004 totaled ($39.2) million, or (17) cents per share. Entergy-Koch's results are treated as a special item for 2004 consistent with Entergy's announcement in September 2004 of the sale of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading business and its intent to sell Gulf South Pipeline.
"The mildest weather in more than a decade impacted our results this quarter but the underlying strength of our business fundamentals remains sound," said "Sales in the utility reflected solid growth, after adjusting for the unusual weather, our nuclear business recorded improved results in spite of several unplanned outages, and we continue to distribute value created to our shareholders with the second stepwise increase in the dividend in less than two years."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other results were four percent lower compared to third quarter 2003 due primarily to extremely mild weather and higher operation and maintenance expenses.
Entergy Nuclear results increased 12 percent over the same period last year due to improved contract pricing and reevaluation of decommissioning liabilities, partially offset by lower generation due to plant outages.
Energy Commodity Services results were significantly lower due to a loss recorded at Entergy-Koch, LP.
In addition, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a 20 percent increase in the common stock dividend, effective for the December 1 payment, following a 29 percent increase in the dividend approved in July 2003. Entergy also confirmed its $1.5 billion share repurchase program with the early September announcement that a definitive agreement had been reached to sell the energy trading business of Entergy-Koch, LP to Merrill Lynch & Co.
For third quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported and operational earnings of $257.5 million, or $1.11 per share, compared to $269.8 million, or $1.16 per share in third quarter 2003.
Third quarter 2004 results were driven by 1) extremely mild weather in 2004 compared to near normal weather experienced in third quarter 2003; 2) higher operation and maintenance expenses due primarily to the continuation of increased employee benefits expenses, referenced in second quarter results, and timing differences; 3) lower interest expense due to debt refinancing efforts in 2003; and 4) reevaluation of the decommissioning liability, in connection with the preparation of a new study in July 2004, to reflect life extension on the River Bend nuclear plant.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in third quarter 2004, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up two percent compared to third quarter 2003. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up nearly four percent. Industrial sales experienced an increase of nearly five percent in third quarter 2004 compared to the same quarter last year with usage by the petroleum refining, chemical and primary metals sectors leading the growth.
Entergy Nuclear earned $63.7 million, or 28 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in third quarter 2004, compared to $59.6 million, or 25 cents per share, for the same period in the prior year. Operational results in each period equaled as-reported results. The improvement in earnings for third quarter 2004 resulted primarily from 1) increased revenue due to higher contract pricing and the addition of a support services contract for the Cooper Nuclear Station; and, 2) a reduction in the decommissioning liability to reflect changes in assumptions on probability of life extension which were evaluated as part of recent updates of decommissioning-related studies. These positive effects were partially offset by lower generation due to unplanned and planned outages during the period at Vermont Yankee, Indian Point 2, and FitzPatrick plants.
Energy Commodity Services, which includes earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business, incurred an as-reported loss of $38.9 million, or 17 cents per share, in third quarter 2004. This compares to earnings of $36.3 million, or 16 cents per share, in as-reported earnings in third quarter 2003. Earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP are excluded from Energy Commodity Services' operational earnings consistent with Entergy's announcement in September 2004 of the sale of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading business and its intent to sell Gulf South Pipeline. Energy Commodity Services had no earnings on an operational basis in third quarter 2004, compared to earnings of 16 cents per share in the same period last year, reflecting the inclusion of earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP, as discussed above.
Factors that contributed to the quarter to quarter earnings decrease were 1) a change in the venture's ability to apply hedge accounting to certain transactions as a result of signing a definitive agreement to sell its energy trading business; and, 2) the exclusion for accounting purposes of the mark-to-market value of certain contracts entered into to hedge physical gas storage positions.
"We project operational earnings in the range of $3.70 to $3.80 per share for full year 2004 in spite of the disappointing results produced this quarter due to the mild weather we experienced across our service territory. As-reported earnings are projected in the range of $3.65 to $3.75 per share for full year 2004, reflecting special items recorded in the third quarter of 2004," said . "We are reaffirming 2005 guidance in the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases. Key assumptions supporting this guidance include normal weather, the continued successful execution of operating strategies across our businesses and the planned share repurchases under our previously announced $1.5 billion program."
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production, retail distribution operations, energy marketing and trading, and gas transportation. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of over $9 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases at local and fede ral regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its non-utility nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, the completion of the sale of Entergy-Koch's U.S. and foreign trading businesses, the ability to sell Entergy-Koch's Gulf South Pipeline at attractive prices, the amount of cash that Entergy-Koch is able to distribute to Entergy, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the energy tradin g market, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3

Exhibit 99.4
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), and the related presentation included as Exhibit 99.3, contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share or mark to market earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital (ROIC), return on equity (ROE), and net margin are included on both an operational and as reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing r esults of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies. Mark to market earnings per share shows the earnings contribution of Entergy-Koch, L.P. without taking into consideration two accounting effects described in the Earnings Releases.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt/net capital ratio, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt retirement, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's c ash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases contains the material limitation of failing to consider a significant non-operational item that impacted earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP and certain items that impact cash flow as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore does not give a complete picture of the results of operations or cash available to the business, each as calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures provided in the Earnings Releases. Investors and other readers should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share and net cash flow from operations, as prepared in accordance with GAAP.

Entergy Corporation 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA 70113
News Release
 
Exhibit 99.5
New Orleans, La. - The Board of Directors of Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) has declared a quarterly dividend of 54 cents per common share. This dividend reflects a 20 percent increase over the previous dividend of 45 cents per common share. The payment date is December 1, 2004 to stockholders of record November 17, 2004. In addition, the Board affirmed its objective to annually grow the dividend consistent with the achievement of its financial aspirations.
The higher dividend, which equates to $2.16 per share on an annual basis, reflects Entergy's strong earnings growth and cash generation over the past five years, and is based on the expected continuation of strong performance driven by intrinsic growth, share repurchase accretion in the near-term, and potential asset acquisition opportunities that the company remains positioned to capture.
"The dividend level is designed to balance current period payout against the need for financial flexibility and liquidity, protecting the credit quality that we have worked so diligently to achieve, while also providing for continued growth in both earnings and the dividend consistent with the company's financial aspirations," said . "Management conducted rigorous stress testing to provide the Board comfort that the increased dividend is sustainable in a wide range of scenarios."
Robert v.d. Luft, Entergy's chairman of the board
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production, retail distribution operations, energy marketing and trading, and gas transportation. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of over $9 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its non-utility nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, the completion of the sale of Entergy-Koch's U.S. and foreign trading businesses, the ability to sell Entergy-Koch's Gulf South Pipeline at attractive prices, the amount of cash that Entergy-Koch is able to distribute to Entergy, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the energy trading market, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.


