FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20040928072729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Dated: September 28, 2004
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 7.01 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On September 28, 2004, J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy Corporation's Chief Executive Officer, will speak to various members of the financial and investment community in New York City. A copy of his slide presentation to be given is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein. The slide presentation can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/investor under "Presentations and Webcasts."
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.2
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "presentation") contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy is providing quantitative reconciliations within this presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Management believes that operational earnings provides useful information to investors for the purpose of evaluating the company's ongoing business results and comparing the company's financial performance to the performance of industry peers. Entergy management frequently uses this non-GAAP financial measure in its own decision-making, as well as to analyze historical performance, to project future performance and to compare performance to that of its industry peers.
Another non-GAAP measure, net debt to net capital, is a measure that Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes that this ratio provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility and assists investors in comparing the company's financial flexibility to the financial flexibility of others in the energy sector.
Other non-GAAP measures, free cash flow and net cash available for deployment, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions, and further reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends. It does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The Non-GAAP information presented in the presentation contains the material limitation of failing to consider items that impact earnings and other financial metrics as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and, in the instance of free cash flow and cash available for deployment, the failure to consider items that impact cash flow as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore do not give a complete picture of cash available to the business. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Investors and other readers should consider the non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, earnings per share and other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.


