FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20040802081335.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 9 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On August 2, 2004, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST, Monday, August 2, 2004 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On August 2, 2004, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST, Monday, August 2, 2004 The call and the slide presentation can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: August 2, 2004
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

 
Exhibit 99.1
INVESTOR NEWS
August 2, 2004
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported second quarter 2004 earnings of $1.14 per share as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Entergy Corporation also announced that the review of strategic alternatives for enhancing the value of the Entergy-Koch, LP venture is essentially complete. As a result of that review Entergy believes that a sale of Entergy-Koch Trading is the highest value option for that business. Because of this, Entergy and Koch Industries have been engaged in discussions with numerous potential buyers. Advanced negotiations are underway with one party, and interest continues to be expressed by several others. The owners intend to pursue the sale of Gulf South Pipeline, upon reaching a definitive agreement to sell Entergy-Koch Trading. In addition:
Entergy announced a common stock repurchase program of up to $1.5 billion to be effective immediately and extend through the end of 2006. This repurchase program, which is incremental to existing authority to repurchase shares to fund the exercise of employee stock options, will be decreased to $1 billion should a sale of Entergy-Koch Trading not materialize, and
Entergy established as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2005 in the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share which reflects the impact of the anticipated sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline and the stock repurchase program.
 
"Our review of strategic options for the Entergy-Koch venture led us to conclude that a third party sale was the best choice to grow the value of this already successful business," said . "Actively managing our business portfolio creates the opportunity to enhance long-term returns to our shareholders through growth related investments, dividend increases, and stock repurchases while maintaining financial flexibility and protecting the credit quality we have worked so diligently to achieve at Entergy."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, August 2, 2004, with access either by telephone, 913-981-5532, confirmation code 507321, or via website at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter and year-to-date 2004 versus 2003, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendices A-1 and A-2 to this release. In addition, appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2004 was $530 million, an increase of $55 million compared to second quarter 2003. The change was due primarily to:
Increased revenues resulting from an increase in megawatt hours generated at Entergy Nuclear as a result of fewer planned and unplanned outages.
Offsetting a portion of this increase at Entergy Nuclear was lower net cash flow provided from operating activities at Utility, Parent & Other where changes in deferred fuel balances in second quarter 2004 compared to the same period last year reduced net cash flow provided by operating activities.
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities year-to-date through June 2004 is up more than $400 million compared to the same period in 2003. Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities for the full year 2004 is projected to be more than $2 billion.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
(a) Energy Commodity Services' cash amount above includes contributions from Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP that are recognized in Entergy Corporation's financial statements (such as dividends received and taxes paid).
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In second quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other as-reported and operational earnings were $0.83 per share, compared to second quarter 2003 results of $0.49 per share in as-reported earnings and $0.77 per share on an operational basis. Second quarter 2003 as-reported results included a loss provision of $(0.28) per share recorded in connection with the River Bend Nuclear Plant. Operational earnings in second quarter 2004 reflect:
Improved pricing from a rate increase implemented at Entergy New Orleans in June 2003.
More normal weather in 2004 compared to milder than normal weather experienced in second quarter 2003.
Lower interest expense due to refinancing efforts in 2003.
Higher operation and maintenance expenses due to increased customer support and employee benefits expenses.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4 below. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Residential sales in second quarter 2004, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down nearly 2 percent compared to second quarter 2003, with the growth in the number of customers offset by lower usage per customer.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up nearly 1 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of nearly 4 percent in second quarter 2004 compared to prior quarter with usage by the chemical and petroleum refining sectors continuing to show strength.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
 
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the second quarter 2004.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 100%, 95%, and 72% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $39, $39 and $38, for the remainder of 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has sold 55%, 63% and 42% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $25, $23 and $25, for the same periods.
 
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.27 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2004, compared to $0.19 per share in second quarter 2003. Improvement in EN's earnings for second quarter 2004 resulted from:
Increased megawatt-hours generated due to fewer scheduled and unscheduled outages and generation available from uprates completed in 2003 at Indian Point units 2 and 3 and Pilgrim.
Increased revenue due to higher contract pricing and the addition of a support services contract for the Cooper Nuclear Station signed in third quarter 2003.
Other Entergy Nuclear highlights included:
Capacity factor for the fleet improved to nearly 94% for second quarter 2004.
Average production costs decreased to nearly $18 per MWh as a result of higher generation and lower operation and maintenance expenses.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
 
Energy Commodity Services
Energy Commodity Services (ECS) includes earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS recorded as-reported and operational earnings of $0.04 per share in second quarter 2004, compared to $0.21 on both as-reported and operational bases in the same period last year. Lower results in second quarter 2004 are due to:
The loss of disproportionate sharing of income from the Entergy-Koch venture, which accounted for $0.10 in earnings per share in second quarter 2003. Beginning on January 1, 2004, Entergy's share of the partnership's income became 50%, consistent with its ownership interest.
Lower earnings at Entergy-Koch Trading (EKT), a subsidiary of Entergy-Koch, LP.
Operational earnings contributed by EKT in second quarter 2004 were $0.05 per share compared to operational earnings of $0.19 per share in the same period of 2003. Factors that contributed to the quarter to quarter decrease were:
The loss of disproportionate sharing of income from the Entergy-Koch venture, as noted above.
Lower point-of-view trading profits in second quarter 2004, consistent with low volatility that is typical at this time of year, compared to second quarter 2003 when unusually favorable market conditions served to increase point of view trading results.
Consistent with the difference in market conditions quarter to quarter, daily earnings at risk in second quarter 2004 decreased by nearly 40% compared to the prior period.
Table 7 provides a comparative summary of Entergy-Koch Trading's operational performance measures.
Appendix C includes additional information on Entergy-Koch Trading. As reflected in that appendix, essentially all of the market value of EKT's mark-to-market portfolio is based on actively quoted prices and approximately 94% of EKT's counterparty credit exposure is associated with companies that currently have investment-grade credit ratings.
 
Operational earnings at Entergy-Koch's gas transportation subsidiary, Gulf South Pipeline, were $0.01 per share compared to $0.03 per share in operational earnings for second quarter 2003. Excluding the portion of this decrease that is attributed to the loss of disproportionate income sharing, Gulf South's results were nearly flat quarter to quarter.
Table 8 provides a comparative summary of Gulf South Pipeline's operational performance measures.
 
IV.
Earnings Guidance
"Our 2004 guidance remains in place until we are able to make a definitive announcement on the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading," said . "We are initiating 2005 guidance in the range of $4.60 to $4.85 on both an as-reported and operational bases including the assumption that we are able to effect the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline by year-end 2004. This range reflects a 10 to 15% growth rate versus the midpoint of our 2004 guidance, significantly above our previously disclosed near-term earnings aspiration of 8-10%."
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy's 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 9 below, with June 2004 year-to-date actual results as its starting point. This table contains "forward looking statements" as defined on page 24 and should be read in conjunction with that section of this release. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses for the remainder of 2004 based upon how the two remaining quarters of 2004 are expected to differ from the same period in 2003. Because the anticipated sale of Entergy-Koch is uncertain, 2004 guidance has not been modified to reflect the sale. Upon a sale announcement, Entergy-Koch's year-to-date earnings contribution and earnings projected through closing will be treated as a special item, thereby reducing 2004 operational, but not as-reported, earnings per share. In addition, as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2004 may be modified to reflect any projected gain or loss on the sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline.
Other key assumptions are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Baseline operational earnings for last two quarters of 2003 of $1.34 in earnings per share after adjusting for $0.04 of unfavorable weather
Net improvement in revenues achieved by sales growth in the range of 1.5 to 2.0%
Other factors which include higher depreciation expense offset by lower interest expense
Entergy Nuclear
Baseline operational earnings for the last two quarters of 2003 of $0.49 in earnings per share
Increased revenues from higher contract pricing in 2004 compared to 2003
No revenue change due to volume differences (fewer unplanned outages and power uprates offset by refueling outages in second half of 2004 at FitzPatrick and Indian Point 2 compared to none in second half of 2003)
Lower operation and maintenance and other expenses resulting from productivity improvement initiatives designed to reduce overall costs within the competitive nuclear fleet
Additional revenue from the Cooper support services contract
Energy Commodity Services
Baseline of operational earnings for last two quarters of 2003 of $0.17 in earnings per share, with an adjustment of $(0.11) to remove the impact of disproportionate income sharing that occurred in last two quarters of 2003
Increased earnings from Entergy-Koch Trading based on improved profitability
Increased earnings from Gulf South Pipeline due to increased transportation rates, lower legal expenses and receipt of insurance reimbursements
Reduced losses at non-nuclear wholesale assets due to increased megawatt hours of generation
Reflects elimination of disproportionate sharing, equivalent to $0.11 per share for the last two quarters of 2003
.
Appendix D provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
 
Entergy's previously-issued full-year 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 10. As noted previously, because the sale of Entergy-Koch is uncertain, 2004 guidance has not been modified to reflect the sale. Upon a sale announcement, Entergy-Koch's year-to-date earnings contribution and earnings projected through closing will be treated as a special item, thereby reducing 2004 operational, but not as-reported, earnings per share. In addition, as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2004 may be modified to reflect any projected gain or loss on the sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline.
Key assumptions previously reflected in the full year earnings ranges are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Approximately 65% of 2004 earnings expected from the Utility, Parent & Other
Existing rate plans in effect including full-year impact of rate increase put into effect June 2003 at Entergy New Orleans
Sales growth for 2004 projected in the 1.5 to 2.0% range
Other factors which include higher depreciation expense partially offset by lower operation and maintenance and interest expenses
Entergy Nuclear
More than 25% of 2004 earnings expected from Entergy Nuclear
Higher revenues generated due to an approximate $1 per megawatt hour increase in the pricing of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $38 per megawatt hour in 2004
Higher revenues realized due to 46 MW of power uprates during 2003 and absence of 2003 blackout which had an approximate impact of $10 million
Lower operation and maintenance expense achieved from productivity improvements at Entergy Nuclear
Additional revenue from the Cooper support services contract
Capacity factor assumption for the fleet ranges from 92 to 95%, and includes planned refueling outages at Vermont Yankee in spring 2004, and at FitzPatrick and Indian Point 2 in fall 2004
Energy Commodity Services
Energy Commodity Services' guidance based on a 50% contribution from Entergy-Koch, consistent with Entergy's ownership share
Conservative expectations assumed for commodity trading
Lower pricing estimated for non-nuclear wholesale assets business
Modest year-over-year pipeline growth assumed reflecting higher transportation rates and lower operation and maintenance expenses
Entergy's 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 10 below, with actual 2003 earnings per share as its data starting point.
Reflects elimination of disproportionate sharing, equivalent to $0.38 per share in 2003.
 
Entergy's 2005 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 11 below, with the midpoint of 2004 guidance as its starting point. Guidance for 2005 is based on the assumption that sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline are completed prior to the end of 2004, and further, that the company executes incremental share repurchases under the program announced today in an amount up to $1.5 billion between now and the end of 2006. Other key assumptions are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Increased revenue from the impact of rate cases
Sales growth for 2005 projected in the 1.5 to 2.0% range
Increased operation and maintenance expenses associated with inflation and supply plan, partially offset by productivity improvements
Decreased interest expense
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Entergy Nuclear
Higher revenues generated due to an approximate $1 per megawatt hour increase in the pricing of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $39 per megawatt hour in 2005
Higher revenues realized due to power uprates completed during 2004 and one less refueling outage in 2005 compared to 2004
Capacity factor assumption for the fleet ranges from 92 to 95%, and includes planned refueling outages at Indian Point 3 and Pilgrim in spring 2005
Lower operation and maintenance expense achieved from productivity improvements at Entergy Nuclear
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Flat to slightly improved results from non-nuclear wholesale assets
Entergy-Koch, LP
No contribution, due to assumed sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline prior to the end of 2004
Share Repurchase Program
Repurchases of 17 to 22 million shares are completed by the end of 2005
 
 
 
V.
Growth and Liquidity Aspirations
One of Entergy's financial aspirations is to deliver near-term earnings growth of 8-10% in 2005 and 2006. The company believes that this goal can be reasonably achieved through a combination of intrinsic growth and accretion due to share repurchases. Other financial aspirations include improving returns on invested capital, achieving various credit metric improvements and providing annual dividend increases.
Over the long-term, Entergy also aspires to deliver earnings growth of 5-6%, equal to top-quartile industry growth over the last 20 years, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to achieve a single-A credit rating. The company's ability to achieve or exceed these aspirations will be based upon a combination of intrinsic growth, accretion due to share repurchases and the deployment of capital into new investments over time.
 
Table 12 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital deployment for the period 2004 through 2006. After considering a range of potential proceeds from the anticipated sale of Entergy-Koch, LP, Entergy expects to have $1.5 billion of cash available over the next three years for three potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt, and dividend increases. Sources shown on the table include additional debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. This amount could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Similarly, stock repurchases reflected on the table are based upon the $1.5 billion program announced today, as well as the existing authorization in place to fund the exercise of employee stock options. As previously noted, this amount will be reduced by $0.5 billion if a sale of Ente rgy-Koch is not achieved, and may further vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or material new investment opportunities.
 
Appendix F-1 provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendix F-2 includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current period.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
Appendix C provides additional details on Entergy-Koch's trading activities in the current period.
Appendix D provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Appendix E provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix F provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years along with a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAPP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix H provides a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
Appendix A-1 and A-2 provide details of second quarter and year-to-date 2004 vs. 2003 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Other income (deductions) increased due primarily to the absence of the River Bend loss provision recorded in second quarter 2003.
Other income (deductions) decreased due primarily to lower Entergy-Koch earnings.
Net revenue increased in second quarter 2004 due primarily to higher revenues in the competitive retail business, the positive effects of more normal weather, and improved pricing coming from the Entergy New Orleans rate increase implemented in June 2003.
Net revenues increased due to higher revenues from Entergy Nuclear resulting primarily from an increase in megawatt hours generated partially offset by lower net revenue from the non-nuclear wholesale assets business.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased for the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher expenses in competitive retail and higher customer support and benefits costs at utility.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased in second quarter 2004 and year-to-date due primarily to productivity improvements achieved at Entergy Nuclear.
Interest expense and other charges decreased due primarily to debt retirements and refinancings completed in 2003.
Cumulative effect of accounting changes primarily reflects the financial impact of the implementation of SFAS 143, the effect of which was originally recorded in first quarter 2003.
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
Appendix B-1 provides a summary of the selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
 
 
 
Appendix B-2 provides a calendar of selected regulatory events scheduled or anticipated through 3 quarter 2005.
rd
 
 
 
Appendix C provides additional details on Entergy-Koch's trading activities during second quarter 2004.
Appendix D provides estimates of the impact to operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense variables. These estimates are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance, and are based upon changes in variables which would result in increases to earnings per share. Equivalent decreases in earnings per share are estimated to result from variable changes in the opposition direction.
(m) Based on current fully diluted shares of approximately 230 million.
 
Appendix E-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix E-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix H-1.
 
Appendix F-1 provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2004 through 2006 includes $3.8 billion for investment; $2.6 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.2 billion is associated with previously identified investments such as the steam generator replacement at Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 1, nuclear plant power uprates at Entergy Nuclear and Utility, the purchase of the Perryville plant, and a previously deferred equity investment for Entergy's interest in Entergy-Koch.
Appendix F-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions. Since the initiation of Entergy's refinancing strategy in fourth quarter of 2002, more than $3.8 billion was refinanced. As a result, the average Utility coupon declined to 5.7% from almost 6.6%, and the average maturity of the Utility's debt portfolio was extended to approximately 13 years.
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
Appendices H-1 and H-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
Teleconference and Webcast Details
Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, August 2, 2004. The call can be accessed by dialing 913-981-5532; the confirmation code is 507321. Please call no more than 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. The call can also be accessed and the presentation slides can be viewed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days following the teleconference by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 507321. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts.
From time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases at local and federal reg ulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its Non-Utility Nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, Entergy-Koch's profitability in trading electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the energy trading market, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinanc e existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported second quarter 2004 as-reported and operational earnings of $265.2 million, or $1.14 per share. This compares with as-reported earnings of $205.6 million, or 89 cents per share, and operational earnings of $270.1 million, or $1.17 per share, in second quarter 2003. As-reported earnings in second quarter 2003 reflected a loss provision of $65.6 million, or 28 cents per share, in connection with a July 2003 unfavorable Texas court decision regarding the abeyed portion of the River Bend nuclear power plant.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
In addition, Entergy announced that the review of strategic alternatives for enhancing value of the Entergy-Koch, LP venture is essentially complete. As a result of that review, Entergy believes that selling Entergy-Koch Trading is the highest value-creating option for that business. Because of this, Entergy and Koch Industries have been engaged in discussions with numerous potential buyers. Advanced negotiations are underway with one party, and interest continues to be expressed by several others. The owners intend to pursue a sale of Gulf South Pipeline, upon reaching a definitive agreement to sell Entergy-Koch Trading.
Entergy also announced a new common stock repurchase program of up $1.5 billion to be effective immediately and extend through the end of 2006. This repurchase program, which is incremental to existing authority to repurchase shares to offset the exercise of employee stock options, will be decreased to $1 billion should a sale of Entergy-Koch Trading not materialize.
"Our review of strategic options for the Entergy-Koch venture led us to conclude that a third party sale was the best choice to grow the value of this already successful business," said "Actively managing our business portfolio creates the opportunity to enhance the long-term returns to our shareholders while maintaining financial flexibility and protecting the credit quality we have worked so diligently to achieve."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer.
Utility, Parent & Other results improved in second quarter 2004 compared to second quarter 2003 due primarily to rate changes at Entergy New Orleans, more normal weather compared to milder-than-normal weather one year ago, and lower interest expense
Entergy Nuclear profits improved as a result of an increase in megawatt-hours generated resulting from fewer planned and unplanned outages and power uprates, as well as higher contract prices
Energy Commodity Services results decreased significantly due to the loss of disproportionate income sharing from Entergy-Koch and lower U.S. trading profits as compared to the strong results achieved in second quarter 2003
For second quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported and operational earnings of $192.7 million, or 83 cents per share, compared to as-reported earnings of $112.2 million, or 49 cents per share, and operational earnings of $177.8 million, or 77 cents per share, in second quarter 2003. As-reported earnings in second quarter 2003 were lower as a result of a loss provision related to an unfavorable decision in Texas regarding River Bend construction costs.
Second quarter 2004 results were driven by 1) approved rate changes implemented at Entergy New Orleans in June 2003; 2) more normal weather in 2004 compared to milder-than-normal weather experienced in second quarter 2003; 3) lower interest expense due to refinancing efforts in 2003; and 4) higher operation and maintenance expenses due to increased customer support and employee benefits expenses.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in second quarter 2004, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down nearly 2 percent compared to second quarter 2003 with growth in the number of customers offset by lower usage per customer. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up 1 percent. Industrial sales experienced an increase of nearly 4 percent in second quarter 2004 compared to the prior year with usage by the chemical and petroleum refining sectors continuing to show strength.
Entergy Nuclear earned $63.0 million, or 27 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2004, compared to $44.9 million, or 19 cents per share, for the same period in the prior year. The improvement in earnings in second quarter 2004 resulted from 1) increased megawatt hours generated due to fewer scheduled and unscheduled outages and uprates completed in 2003 at Indian Point units 2 and 3 and Pilgrim nuclear plants; 2) increased revenue due to higher contract pricing in second quarter 2004 compared to second quarter 2003; and 3) the addition of a support services contract for the Cooper Nuclear Station signed in third quarter 2003.
Energy Commodity Services, which includes earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets, recorded as-reported earnings of $9.5 million, or 4 cents per share, in second quarter 2004. This compares to $48.6 million, or 21 cents per share, in as-reported earnings in second quarter 2003. Operational earnings in second quarter 2004 were $9.5 million, or 4 cents per share, compared to $47.9 million, or 21 cents per share, in second quarter 2003. Lower results in second quarter 2004 were primarily due to the loss of disproportionate sharing of income from the Entergy-Koch venture. Beginning in 2004, Entergy's share of the partnership's profits became 50 percent, consistent with its ownership interest. In the comparable quarter of 2003, the income-sharing mechanisms allocated substantially all of the partnership's income to Entergy.
In addition, trading profits declined consistent with low volatility typical of this time of year compared to second quarter 2003 when unusually favorable market conditions served to increase trading results. Earnings contributed by Gulf South Pipeline were nearly flat quarter to quarter after adjusting for the loss of disproportionate sharing of income.
"Our 2004 as-reported and operational earnings guidance in the range of $4.10 to $4.30 per share remains in place until we are able to make an official announcement on the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading," said . "We are initiating 2005 guidance in the range of $4.60 to $4.85 on both as-reported and operational bases including the assumption that we are able to effect the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline by year-end 2004. This range reflects a 10 to 15 percent growth rate versus the midpoint of our 2004 guidance, significantly above our previously disclosed near-term earnings aspiration of 8-10 percent."
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production, retail distribution operations, energy marketing and trading, and gas transportation. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Through Entergy-Koch, LP, it is a leading provider of wholesale energy marketing and trading services, as well as an operator of natural gas pipeline and storage facilities. Entergy has annual revenues of over $9 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
 
From time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases at local and federal regulatory agencies , Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its Non-Utility Nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, Entergy-Koch's profitability in trading electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the energy trading market, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3

Exhibit 99.4
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), and the related presentation included as Exhibit 99.3, contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital, (ROIC) and return on equity, (ROE), are included on both an operational and as reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists inve stors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt retirement, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases contains the material limitation of failing to consider a significant non-operational item that impacted earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP and certain items that impact cash flow as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore does not give a complete picture of the results of operations or cash available to the business, each as calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures provided in the Earnings Releases. Investors and other readers should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share and net cash flow from operations, as prepared in accordance with GAAP.


