FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20040426093920.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 9 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On April 26, 2004, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST, Monday, April 26, 2004
.
The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On April 26, 2004, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST, Monday, April 26, 2004
.
The call and the slide presentation can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
Entergy's Earnings Releases contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differs from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital, (ROIC) and return on equity, (ROE), are included on both an operational and as reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing result s of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt/equity retirement, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally in cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energ y sector.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
/s/ Nathan E. Langston
Dated: April 26, 2004

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
INVESTOR NEWS                                                                                                                        
April 26, 2004
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported first quarter 2004 earnings as follows:
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2004
Utility, Parent & Other results equaled earnings in first quarter 2003 due to rate relief achieved at Entergy New Orleans, offset by milder than normal weather compared to favorable weather one year ago, page 3.
Entergy Nuclear profits improved as a result of increased electricity production due to higher capacity factors and power uprates, higher contract prices, and lower expenses, page 5.
Energy Commodity Services results are down substantially (90%) due to the loss of disproportionate income sharing and decreased U.S. trading profits resulting from lower market volatility, page 6.
"First quarter results reflect the subdued volatility in energy commodity markets that limited opportunities in our trading business," said . "The fundamentals in our utility and nuclear operations remain solid and we expect the combination of productivity improvements, continued operational excellence, and a strong balance sheet to be catalysts for delivering long-term top quartile shareholder returns."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other recent events include:
Entergy Nuclear signs new multi-year power contracts with NYPA and Con Edison for deliveries from its Indian Point units 2 and 3.
Entergy files its proposal with FERC for an independent transmission structure.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss first quarter results at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, April 26, 2004, with access either by telephone, 913-981-5532, confirmation code 250802, or via website at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2004 versus 2003.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix A-1 to this release. In addition, Appendix A-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
 
Consolidated Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash provided by operating activities in first quarter 2004 was $399 million, an increase of $348 million compared to first quarter 2003. Drivers included:
At the Utility, recovery of deferred fuel expenses in first quarter 2004 generated significant cash compared to first quarter last year when substantial under recovery occurred.
At Entergy Nuclear, increased revenues, lower refueling outage cash costs and the timing of expense payments resulted in cash flow improvement.
Entergy's net cash provided by operating activities for the full year 2004 is projected to be more than $2 billion.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.
(a) Energy Commodity Services' cash amount above includes contributions from Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP that are recognized in Entergy Corporation's financial statements (such as dividends received and taxes paid).
 
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In first quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings were $0.55 per share, compared to $0.46 per share in first quarter 2003. Operational earnings were $0.55 per share in first quarter 2004 which equaled operational earnings for the same period in 2003. Operational earnings in first quarter 2004 included:
Improved pricing from a rate increase implemented at Entergy New Orleans in June 2003.
Lower interest expense due to refinancing efforts in 2003.
Higher operation and maintenance expenses due to timing.
Milder than normal weather in 2004 compared to colder than normal weather experienced in first quarter 2003.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4 below. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in first quarter 2004, on a weather-adjusted basis, were roughly equal to the strong sales achieved in first quarter 2003.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased modestly.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of 2% in first quarter 2004 compared to prior year with usage by petroleum refining customers reflecting significantly increased production in that sector. Higher sales were also realized in the chemicals sector in spite of the impact of high gas prices that lowered usage by agri-chem customers, which are historically sensitive to gas price changes.
 
 
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix B-1 provides a summary of the Utility's selected regulatory cases and events by operating subsidiary and Appendix B-2 provides a calendar of selected regulatory events.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses capacity and generation sold forward as of as of April 26, 2004.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 100%, 94%, and 73% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $39, $39 and $38, for the remainder of 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has sold 58%, 59% and 44% of its planned energy and capacity at average prices per megawatt-hour of $24, $23 and $25, for the same periods.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.29 per share on an as-reported basis in first quarter 2004, compared to $0.86 in first quarter 2003. First quarter 2003 results included the impact of the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 143. Operational results for first quarter 2004 were $0.29 per share compared to $0.16 per share in the same period in 2003. Improvement in operational earnings for first quarter 2004 resulted from:
Increased megawatt-hours generated due to fewer unscheduled outages and generation available from uprates completed in 2003.
Increased revenue due to higher contract pricing and the addition of a support services contract for the Cooper Nuclear Station signed in fourth quarter 2003.
Other Entergy Nuclear highlights included:
Capacity factor for the fleet improved to nearly 99% for first quarter 2004.
Average production costs decreased to less than $19 per MWh as a result of lower operation and maintenance expenses and higher generation.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Energy Commodity Services
Energy Commodity Services (ECS) includes earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS recorded as-reported and operational earnings of $0.04 per share in first quarter 2004, compared to $0.41 on both as-reported and operational bases in the same period last year. Lower results in first quarter 2004 are due to:
The loss of disproportionate sharing of income from the Entergy-Koch venture, which accounted for $0.17 in earnings on a per share basis in first quarter 2003. Beginning on January 1, 2004, Entergy's share of the partnership's income became 50%, consistent with its ownership interest.
Lower earnings at Entergy-Koch Trading (EKT), a subsidiary of Entergy-Koch, LP.
Operational earnings contributed by Entergy-Koch Trading (EKT) in first quarter 2004 were $0.03 compared to operational earnings of $0.37 per share in the same period of 2003. Factors that contributed to the quarter to quarter decrease were:
The loss of disproportionate sharing of income from the Entergy-Koch venture, as noted above.
Volatility decreased materially compared to first quarter 2003, contributing to lower point-of-view trading profits. Consistent with the market's lower volatility and lower profits at EKT, daily earnings at risk in first quarter 2004 decreased by nearly 50% compared to one year ago.
EKT's physical optimization business continued to be a positive contributor to profitability, and its European business experienced a quarter on quarter improvement as trading activities expanded beyond the UK.
Table 7 provides a comparative summary of Entergy-Koch Trading's operational performance measures.
Appendix C includes additional information on Entery-Koch's business. As reflected in that appendix, essentially all of the market value of EKT's mark-to-market portfolio is based on actively quoted prices and approximately 92% of EKT's counterparty credit exposure is associated with companies that currently have investment-grade credit ratings.
Operational earnings at Entergy-Koch's gas transportation subsidiary, Gulf South Pipeline, were $0.04 per share which equaled the operational earnings for first quarter 2003. Factors contributing to first quarter 2004 included:
The loss of disproportionate sharing of income from the Entergy-Koch venture, as noted earlier.
Higher throughput due to a slight increase in gas production in certain areas, particularly east Texas.
Higher contract prices due to higher commodity transportation rates resulting from a widening of basis between the east and west sides of the pipeline system.
Higher production costs resulting from legal expenses and remediation costs incurred in connection with a casing leak at the Magnolia storage facility.
Table 8 provides a comparative summary of Gulf South Pipeline's operational performance measures.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
"The fundamentals of our businesses were again strong in first quarter of this year," said . "The utility was solid, nuclear performed exceptionally well, and our commodity services business turned in a profitable quarter in spite of limited market opportunities. We have closely reviewed the financial and operational assumptions that drive our earnings estimates and we are affirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2004 in the range of $4.10 to $4.30 per share."
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy's 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 9 below, with March 2004 year-to-date actual results as its starting point. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses for the remainder of 2004 based upon how the three remaining quarters of 2004 are expected to differ from the same period in 2003. Key assumptions are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
A baseline of operational earnings for the last three quarters of 2003 of $2.13 in earnings per share after adjusting for $0.07 of unfavorable weather.
A moderate increase in revenues generated by higher rates which became effective at Entergy New Orleans in June 2003.
Net improvement in revenues achieved by sales growth in the range of 1.5 to 2.0%.
Other factors which include higher depreciation expense, partially offset by lower operation and maintenance and interest expenses.
Entergy Nuclear
A baseline of operational earnings for the last three quarters of 2003 of $0.68 in earnings per share.
Increased revenues from higher contract pricing in 2004 compared to 2003.
Additional revenues associated with higher megawatt-hours produced due to fewer unplanned outages and power uprates, partially offset by one additional refueling outage in 2004 compared to 2003.
Lower operation and maintenance and other expenses resulting from productivity improvement initiatives designed to reduce overall costs within the competitive nuclear fleet.
Additional revenue is realized from the Cooper support services contract.
Energy Commodity Services
A baseline of operational earnings for the last three quarters of 2003 of $0.17 in earnings per share, with an adjustment of $(0.21) to remove the impact of disproportionate income sharing that concluded at the end of 2003.
Slightly higher earnings from Entergy-Koch Trading based on improved profitability in European trading.
Increased earnings from Gulf South Pipeline due to increased transportation rates, lower legal expenses and receipt of insurance reimbursements.
Reflects elimination of disproportionate sharing, equivalent to $0.21 per share for the last three quarters of 2003.
Appendix D provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Entergy's full-year 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 10. Key assumptions reflected in the earnings ranges are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Approximately 65% of 2004 earnings are expected from the Utility, Parent & Other.
Existing rate plans are in effect including the full-year impact of the rate increase put into effect June 2003 at Entergy New Orleans.
Sales growth for 2004 is projected in the 1.5 to 2.0% range.
Other factors which include higher depreciation expense, partially offset by lower operation and maintenance and interest expenses.
Entergy Nuclear
More than 25% of 2004 earnings are expected from Entergy Nuclear.
Higher revenues are generated due to an approximate $1 increase in the pricing of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $38 in 2004.
Higher revenues are realized due to 46 MW of power uprates during 2003 and the absence of the 2003 blackout which had an approximate impact of $10 million.
Lower operation and maintenance expense is achieved as a result of productivity improvements at Entergy Nuclear.
Additional revenue is realized from the Cooper support services contract.
The capacity factor assumption for the fleet ranges from 92 to 95%, and includes planned refueling outages at Vermont Yankee in spring 2004, and at FitzPatrick and Indian Point 2 in fall 2004.
Energy Commodity Services
Energy Commodity Services' guidance is based on a 50% contribution from Entergy-Koch, consistent with Entergy's ownership share.
Conservative expectations are assumed for commodity trading.
Lower pricing is estimated for the non-nuclear wholesale assets business.
Modest year-over-year pipeline growth is assumed reflecting higher transportation rates and lower operation and maintenance expenses.
Entergy's 2004 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 10 below, with actual 2003 earnings per share as its data starting point.
Reflects elimination of disproportionate sharing, equivalent to $0.38 per share in 2003.
 
V.
Growth and Liquidity Aspirations
One of Entergy's financial aspirations is to deliver near-term earnings growth of 8-10%, comprised of 6% intrinsic growth and 2-4% growth from the deployment of capital. Entergy acknowledges that this goal is only reasonably achievable if additional investments are made. Entergy has consistently maintained a disciplined policy that requires new investments to exceed (on an ex ante basis) the incremental weighted-average project cost of capital while maintaining corporate credit metrics. Capital is expected to be available to fund additional investments consistent with Entergy's credit objectives.
Over the long term, Entergy aspires to deliver earnings growth of 5-6%, equal to top-quartile industry growth over the last 20 years. Entergy's other financial aspirations include achieving a return of 9% on average invested capital in the near term, and 10% in the long term; achieving a single A credit rating over the long term by maintaining or improving its 45-50% net debt to net capital ratio and 4 times or better interest coverage; and growing the dividend annually, consistent with progress made toward the achievement of all financial aspirations.
Appendix E-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.
Table 11 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital deployment for the period 2004 through 2006. Entergy expects to have $3.4 billion of cash available over the next three years for three potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, and dividend increases. Sources shown on the table include $2.6 billion of additional debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. This amount could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment.
Details provided in the above table include both generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and non-GAAP measures. The non-GAAP measures, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available are measures Entergy uses internally in cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors for the purpose of evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility comparing the company's cash availability t o the cash availability of other industry peers.
Appendix F-1 provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and Appendix F-2 includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
 
VI.
Appendices
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current period.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
Appendix C provides additional details on Entergy-Koch's trading activities in the current period.
Appendix D provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Appendix E provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix F provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years along with a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAPP financial measures that are used throughout this release.
Appendix A-1 provides details of first quarter 2004 vs. 2003 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
 
 
Income statement line items are tax effected at the statutory rate. Any difference between the statutory and effective tax rate is reflected in the "Income taxes-other" line.
Net revenue decreased in first quarter 2004 due primarily to lower sales volumes in the residential sector driven by milder weather, the effects of which were more than offset by improved pricing coming from the Entergy New Orleans rate increase implemented in June 2003 as well as commercial and industrial sales growth which benefited from improved economic conditions. Other items contributing to the quarter on quarter decline include lower unbilled revenue and higher revenues from the competitive retail business.
Net revenues increased due to higher revenues from Entergy Nuclear resulting primarily from an increase in megawatt hours generated.
Other income (deductions) decreased due primarily to lower Entergy-Koch earnings.
Cumulative effect of accounting change primarily reflects the financial impact of the implementation of SFAS 143, the effect of which was originally recorded in first quarter 2003.
 
Appendix A-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Entergy uses the operational earnings per share measure internally in budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge business performance and the ongoing strength of its businesses. Entergy further believes this metric provides useful information to investors for the purpose of evaluating Entergy's ongoing business results and comparing the company's operating and financial performance to the performance of industry peers.
 
Appendix B-1 provides a summary of the selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
 
Appendix B-2 provides a calendar of selected regulatory events scheduled or anticipated through mid-2005.
 
 
Appendix C provides additional details on Entergy-Koch's trading activities during first quarter 2004.
Appendix D provides estimates of the impact to operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense variables. These estimates are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance, and are based upon changes in variables which would result in increases to earnings per share. Equivalent decreases in earnings per share are estimated to result from variable changes in the opposition direction.
Appendix E-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix E-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures. Entergy uses non-GAAP measures internally in budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge business performance and the ongoing strength of its businesses. Entergy further believes these metrics provide useful information to investors for the purpose of evaluating Entergy's ongoing business results and comparing the company's operating and financial performance to the performance of industry peers.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix E-2.
 
 
Appendix F-1 provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2004 through 2006 includes $3.8 billion for investment; $2.6 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.2 billion is associated with previously identified investments such as the steam generator replacement at Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 1, nuclear plant power uprates at Entergy Nuclear and Utility, the purchase of the Perryville plant, and a previously-deferred equity investment for Entergy's interest in Entergy-Koch.
Appendix F-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions. Since the initiation of Entergy's refinancing strategy in fourth quarter of 2002, more than $3 billion was refinanced. As a result, the average Utility coupon declined to 5.8% from almost 6.6%, and the average maturity of the Utility's debt portfolio was extended to 13 years.
 
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of non-recurring financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics. Entergy uses these non-GAAP measures internally in budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge business performance and the ongoing strength of each business segment. Entergy further believes these measures provide useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing business results and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
 
 
Teleconference and Webcast Details
Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, April 26, 2004. The call can be accessed by dialing 913-981-5532; the confirmation code is 250802. Please call no more than 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. The call can also be accessed and the presentation slides can be viewed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days following the teleconference by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 250802. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
************************************************************************************************************************************
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
From time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to dif fer materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions, and other regulatory decisions, including those related to Entergy's System Agreement and utility supply plan, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its Non-Utility Nuclear generating facilities including the uncertainty of negotiations with unions to agree to such reductions, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factors at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to extend or replace the existing purchased power agreements for those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, Entergy's ability to develop and execu te on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, Entergy-Koch's profitability in trading physical and financial natural gas and power, as well as other energy-related commodities, changes in the number of participants in the energy trading market, and in their creditworthiness and risk profile, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in inflation and interest rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in ownership of joint ventures, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the abili ty to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, and the establishment of a regional transmission organization that includes Entergy's utility service territory, changes in regulation of nuclear generating facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of Indian Point or other nuclear generating facilities, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from proposed energy legislation, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, and particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather, hurricanes, and other disasters, advances in technology, the potential impacts of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, the effects of litigation and governmental investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, and Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today announced first quarter 2004 as-reported and operational earnings of $207.2 million, or 88 cents per share. This compares with as-reported earnings of $395.0 million, or $1.73 per share, and operational earnings of $256.5 million, or $1.12 per share, in first quarter 2003. As-reported earnings in first quarter 2003 included the contribution of $138.6 million, or 61 cents per share, associated with implementing a new accounting standard on nuclear decommissioning assets and liabilities in the utility and non-utility nuclear businesses.
"First quarter results reflect the subdued volatility in energy commodity markets that limited opportunities in our trading business," said . "The fundamentals in our utility and nuclear operations remain solid, and we expect the combination of productivity improvements, continued operational excellence, and a strong balance sheet to be catalysts for delivering long-term top quartile shareholder returns."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Utility, Parent & Other results equaled earnings in first quarter 2003 due to rate changes at Entergy New Orleans, offset by milder-than-normal weather compared to weather one year ago
Entergy Nuclear profits improved as a result of increased production due to higher capacity factors and power uprates, higher contract prices, and lower expenses
Energy Commodity Services results are down substantially due to the loss of disproportionate income sharing and decreased U.S. trading profits resulting from lower market volatility
Other first quarter 2004 events included Entergy Nuclear signing new multi-year power contracts for deliveries from its Indian Point units 2 and 3, and Entergy filing its proposal with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for an independent transmission structure.
For first quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported earnings of $128.5 million, or 55 cents per share, compared to earnings of $104.2 million, or 46 cents per share, in first quarter 2003. On an operational basis, Utility, Parent & Other earnings in first quarter 2004 of $128.5 million, or 55 cents per share, were substantially equal to $125.6 million, or 55 cents per share, recorded in the same period one year ago. First quarter 2004 results were driven by 1) approved rate changes implemented at Entergy New Orleans in June 2003; 2) lower interest expense due to refinancing efforts in 2003; 3) higher operation and maintenance expenses, and 4) the effects of milder-than-normal weather in first quarter 2004 compared to colder-than-normal weather experienced in the first quarter 2003.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in first quarter 2004, after adjusting for milder-than-normal weather, were roughly equal to the strong sales achieved in first quarter 2003. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, increased modestly. Industrial sales experienced an increase of nearly 2 percent in first quarter 2004 compared to the prior year with usage by petroleum refining customers reflecting significantly increased production. Higher sales were also realized in the chemicals sector in spite of the impact of high gas prices that lowered usage by agricultural chemical customers, which are historically sensitive to gas price changes.
Entergy Nuclear earned $68.8 million, or 29 cents per share, on an as-reported basis, compared to as-reported earnings of $197.0 million, or 86 cents per share, in first quarter 2003. First quarter 2003 results reflected the impact of recording the effect of the new accounting standard noted above.
Operational results for first quarter 2004 were $68.8 million, or 29 cents per share, compared to $36.7 million, or 16 cents per share, in first quarter 2003. The improvement in operational earnings resulted from 1) increased electricity production due to fewer unscheduled outages and generation available from uprates completed in 2003; 2) increased revenue due to higher contract pricing in first quarter 2004 compared to first quarter 2003; and 3) the addition of a support services contract for the Cooper Nuclear Station.
Energy Commodity Services, which includes earnings contributions from Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets, recorded as-reported and operational earnings of $9.8 million, or 4 cents per share, in first quarter 2004. This compares to $93.8 million, or 41 cents per share, in as-reported earnings, and $94.2 million, or 41 cents per share, in operational earnings in first quarter 2003. Lower results in first quarter 2004 were primarily due to the loss of disproportionate sharing of income from the Entergy-Koch venture. Beginning in 2004, Entergy's share of the partnership's income became 50 percent, consistent with its ownership interest. In addition, trading profits declined as a result of lower market volatility in first quarter 2004 compared to high volatility in the same period in 2003. Results at Gulf South Pipeline were flat as higher contract prices for gas transportation services were offset by increased expenses. The income-sharing mechanisms that are part of the Enter gy-Koch partnership agreement allocated substantially all of the partnership's income to Entergy in first quarter 2003.
The fundamentals of our businesses were again strong in first quarter of this year," said . "The utility was solid, nuclear performed exceptionally well, and our commodity services business turned in a profitable quarter in spite of limited market opportunities. We have closely reviewed the financial and operational assumptions that drive our earnings estimates and we are affirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2004 in the range of $4.10 to $4.30 per share."
"
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production, retail distribution operations, energy marketing and trading, and gas transportation. Entergy owns and operates power plants with about 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Through Entergy-Koch, LP, it is also a leading provider of wholesale energy marketing and trading services, as well as an operator of natural gas pipeline and storage facilities. Entergy has annual revenues of over $9 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
The following constitutes a "Safe Harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
From time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expres sed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions, and other regulatory decisions, including those related to Entergy's System Agreement and utility supply plan, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its Non-Utility Nuclear generating facilities including the uncertainty of negotiations with unions to agree to such reductions, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factors at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to extend or replace the existing purchased power agreements for those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, Entergy-Koch's profitability in trading physical and financial natural gas and power, as well as other energy-related commodities, changes in the number of participants in the energy trading market, and in their creditworthiness and risk profile, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in inflation and interest rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in ownership of joint ventures, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, and the establishment of a regional transmission organization that includes Entergy's utility service territory, changes in regulation of nuclear generating facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of Indian Point or other nuclear generating facilities, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from proposed energy legislation, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, and particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather, hurricanes, and other disasters, advances in technology, the potential impacts of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, the effects of litigation and governmental investigations, changes in accounting standards, corpor ate governance, and securities law requirements, and Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
This earnings release includes non-GAAP measures when describing Entergy's results of operations and financial performance. Entergy uses these non-GAAP measures internally in budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge business performance and the ongoing strength of each business segment. Entergy further believes these measures provide useful information to investors for the purpose of evaluating Entergy's ongoing business results comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of industry peers. We have prepared a reconciliation of each of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in Entergy's investor release which is posted on our website at
www.entergy.com/earnings
.
 
 
 



