FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20040714084137.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure;                         Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, is being furnished, not filed, under Items 9 and 12.
On July 14, 2004, Entergy Corporation issued a release to certain investors, which is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
This release contains the non-GAAP financial measure operational earnings per share. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy is providing a quantitative reconciliation within this release to compare the non-GAAP financial measure, "operational earnings per share," to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, "as-reported earnings per share."
Operational earnings per share, which is presented on a consolidated basis, is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items." Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Management believes operational earnings per share provides useful information to investors for the purpose of evaluating the company's ongoing business results and comparing the company's financial performance to the performance of industry peers. Entergy management frequently uses this non-GAAP financial measure in its own decision-making, as well as to analyze historical performance, to project future performance and to compare performance to that of its industry peers.
The use of operational earnings per share in the release contains the material limitation of failing to consider a significant non-operational item that impacted earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore does not give a complete picture of the quarterly results of the business. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures. Investors and other readers should consider the non-GAAP measure of operational earnings per share in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share, as prepared in accordance with GAAP.
                                                                                                    SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
/s/ Nathan E. Langston
Dated: July 14, 2004

                                                                                                                                                                      &nb sp;        
                                                                                                                                                             &nbs p;              
Entergy Corporation                                                                                                                                                                           &nb sp;       639 Loyola Avenue                                                                                                                                                                           &nb sp;       New Orleans, LA  70113
  News                                                                                                                                                 Release
Date:                    July 14, 2004
For Release:         Immediate
Contact:               Morgan Stewart (Media)             Nancy Morovich (Investor Relations)                             (504) 576-4238                         (504) 576-5506 9; 9;                             mstewa3@entergy.com              nmorovi@entergy.com
 
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects to record as-reported and operational earnings of approximately $1.13 per share for second quarter 2004. As-reported and operational earnings will include the impact of weather, which was essentially normal across Entergy's service territory.
Second quarter 2004 as-reported earnings are expected to be higher compared to second quarter 2003, when Entergy reported $0.89 per share. Second quarter 2003 as-reported earnings included the impact of a loss provision of $(0.28) recorded in connection with the River Bend Nuclear Power Plant due to a July 2003 unfavorable Texas court decision.
Second quarter 2004 operational earnings are expected to be lower compared to second quarter 2003, when Entergy reported $1.17 per share on an operational basis. After adjusting second quarter 2003 to exclude $0.10 of earnings associated with disproportionate income sharing from the Entergy-Koch, LP joint venture, second quarter 2004 operational earnings will reflect an increase of approximately 6 percent. This increase is due primarily to higher earnings contributions from Utility, Parent and Other, and Entergy Nuclear, partially offset by lower results at Entergy-Koch, LP. A reconciliation of as-reported and operational earnings per share for second quarter 2003 is included in Appendix A of this release in accordance with Regulation G.
Earnings at Utility, Parent and Other are expected to be higher compared to second quarter 2003 due in part to a full quarter's impact of a rate change implemented at Entergy New Orleans in June 2003, as well as more normal weather in second quarter 2004. Entergy Nuclear is expected to report a quarter-on-quarter improvement in earnings in spite of the recent unplanned outage at Vermont Yankee. This increase is due primarily to higher revenues resulting from an increase in the number of megawatt hours generated and improved contract prices. Results at Entergy-Koch, LP are expected to be lower due primarily to the loss of disproportionate income sharing which allocated substantially all of the venture's profits to Entergy in second quarter 2003.
Entergy affirmed previously issued as-reported and operational earnings guidance for full year 2004 at $4.10 to $4.30 per share. In addition, Entergy noted that previously disclosed aspirations for achieving near-term 8-10 percent and long-term 5-6 percent average annual earnings growth remain unchanged.
In conjunction with Entergy's second quarter earnings announcement, a teleconference will be held on August 2, 2004 at 10:00 a.m. CDT, and may be accessed by calling Premiere Conferencing at (913) 981-5532 no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The confirmation number is 507321. Internet users may also access the teleconference and view presentation slides by visiting Entergy's website at www.entergy.com/webcasts. For seven days following the teleconference, a tape delay will be available and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-0820. The confirmation number is the same.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production, retail distribution operations, energy marketing and trading, and gas transportation. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Through Entergy-Koch, LP, it is a leading provider of wholesale energy marketing and trading services, as well as an operator of natural gas pipeline and storage facilities. Entergy has annual revenues of over $9 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
From time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not l imited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to reduce its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its Non-Utility Nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, Entergy-Koch's profitability in trading electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, resolution of pending investigations of Entergy-Koch's past trading practices, changes in the energy trading market, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt and to fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation.
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of consolidated as-reported and operational earnings per share for second quarter 2003 in accordance with Regulation G.
Second quarter 2003 earnings includes the impact of disproportionate income sharing from Entergy-Koch, LP in the amount of $0.10 per share.  


