FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20040217103553.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 9 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On February 12, 2004, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") made a presentation to various members of the financial and investment community in New York City at the UBS 2004 Natural Gas and Electric Utilities Conference. A copy of the slide presentation given at the conference was previously filed with the Commission on a Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 12, 2004, and was a
lso made available via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
. The attached Exhibit No. 99 reconciles certain non-GAAP measures included in the February 12, 2004 presentation to their most directly comparable GAAP measure.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On February 12, 2004, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") made a presentation to various members of the financial and investment community in New York City at the UBS 2004 Natural Gas and Electric Utilities Conference. A copy of the slide presentation given at the conference was previously filed with the Commission on a Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 12, 2004, and was a
lso made available via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
Entergy's Presentation contains non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided in Exhibit 99 included in this filing quantitative reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Each non-GAAP measure in the Presentation differs from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing pe rformance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Presentation should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                                                                    Entergy Corporation Corporation
                                                                                    By:                                                                                             Nathan E. Langston                                                                                     Senior Vice President and                                                                                     Chief Accounting Officer
/s/ Nathan E. Langston
Dated: February 17, 2004



