FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20050425072322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On April 25, 2005, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases"), which are incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, April 25, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 7.01 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On April 25, 2005, Entergy issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, April 25, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: April 25, 2005
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
April 25, 2005
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported first quarter 2005 earnings of $0.79 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
(a) Operational earnings for first quarter 2004 were originally reported as $0.88 per share. Following the sales of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and pipeline businesses, Entergy began treating earnings from Entergy-Koch as a special item, which revises the previously reported operational earnings for quarterly comparisons.
 
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2005
Utility, Parent & Other operational results decreased due to lower residential customer usage and higher operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy Nuclear results increased over the same period last year due to higher contract pricing and a reduction in the decommissioning liability, partially offset by lower generation available as a result of a planned refueling outage that commenced during first quarter 2005.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business showed improved results due to enhanced operations and proceeds from SO
2
allowances sold.
"Solid performance at Entergy Nuclear helped to offset Utility results dampened by lower residential usage," said . "The degree of success we are able to accomplish on our regulatory agenda at both the state and federal level in the coming months will be critical to our ability to achieve our financial objectives."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Quarterly Highlights:
Entergy reaches agreement for the purchase of the Attala power plant, a 480 megawatt gas unit in Mississippi.
EGSI-LA achieves a global settlement that resolves twelve open dockets and establishes a formula rate plan.
FERC issues Declaratory Order approving Entergy's proposal, with some modifications, for an independent transmission coordinator.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, April 25, 2005, with access by telephone, 719-457-2661, confirmation code 865625. The call can also be accessed and the presentation slides can be viewed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days following the teleconference by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 865625. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2005 versus 2004, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendix A-1 to this release. In addition, appendix A-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in first quarter 2005 was more than $500 million, an increase of more than $100 million compared to first quarter 2004. The increase was due to increased net cash flow from operating activities at Utility, Parent & Other as a result of higher collections of receivables.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In first quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other earned $0.42 per share on both as-reported and operational bases compared to $0.55 per share in first quarter 2004. Earnings in first quarter 2005 reflect:
A decline in net revenue due in part to lower residential customer usage and lower unbilled revenues. Unbilled revenues reflect the change in estimate, from the previous quarter, of sales late in the period for customers whose actual usage has not yet been billed.
Higher operation and maintenance expense due to planned outages at fossil generation plants during first quarter 2005 as well as higher employee benefits expense, and increased depreciation expense.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4 below. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Residential sales in first quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down 1 percent compared to first quarter 2004.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up nearly 2 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of 1 percent in first quarter 2005 compared to prior quarter with usage by pipeline and chemical customers leading the growth.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
 
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the first quarter 2005.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 95%, 90%, and 72% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $39, $41 and $42, for the remainder of 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has contracted for 55%, 37% and 33% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $24, $24 and $28, for the same periods.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.36 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2005, compared to $0.29 per share in first quarter 2004. The increase in operational earnings for EN in first quarter 2005 was due primarily to higher contract pricing and a reduction in the decommissioning liability. This increase was partially offset by lower generation resulting from a planned refueling outage that commenced in first quarter 2005 compared to no refueling outages in first quarter 2004.
Other Entergy Nuclear highlights included:
Capacity factor for the fleet was 93% for first quarter 2005 reflecting the impact of one planned refueling outage partially completed during the period.
Average production costs increased slightly due to a lower generation resulting from one planned refueling outage. Lower operation and maintenance expense in first quarter 2005 served to partially offset the impact of lower generation in average production cost this period.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Energy Commodity Services
Energy Commodity Services (ECS) results in first quarter 2005 include only earnings from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS as-reported results in first quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP (EKLP).
As-reported results for ECS in first quarter 2005 were $0.01 per share compared to $0.04 per share in first quarter 2004. The lower as-reported results reflect the absence of any earnings from EKLP in 2005, reflecting the sale of Entergy-Koch's trading and pipeline businesses in late 2004. Operational results for ECS were also $0.01 per share in first quarter 2005 compared to a loss of $(0.03) per share one year ago reflecting primarily improved operations and the sale of SO
2
allowances.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy affirmed as-reported and operational earnings guidance in the lower end of the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share for full year 2005. Earnings guidance for 2005 is detailed in Table 7, with March 2005 year-to-date actual results as its starting point. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses for the remainder of 2005 based on how the three remaining quarters of the year are expected to differ from the same period in 2004.
 
Entergy's full year 2005 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 8, with 2004 actual results as its starting point. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses based on how the results of 2005 are expected to differ from 2004, and includes adjustments to the components of each business based on results through March 2005.
Other key assumptions that are applicable for both Tables 7 and 8 are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Increased revenue from the impact of rate cases and sales growth projected in the 1.5 to 2.0% range, excluding the impact of the loss of one industrial customer to cogeneration
Increased operation and maintenance expense associated with inflation, benefits costs and assets acquired under the generation supply plan
Decreased interest expense
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Entergy Nuclear
Increased revenue due to an approximate $1 per megawatt hour increase in the pricing of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $39 per megawatt-hour in 2005
Increased revenue due to completion of power uprates
Capacity factor ranging from 92 to 95% including the completion of a planned refueling outage at Indian Point 3 in April 2005, and planned refueling outages at Pilgrim in late spring 2005 and Vermont Yankee in fall 2005
Lower operation and maintenance expense resulting from additional productivity improvements at Entergy Nuclear
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Reduced losses from non-nuclear wholesale assets
Share Repurchase Program
Repurchases of 17 to 22 million shares are completed from August 2004 through December 2005 under the announced $1.5 billion repurchase program
 
 
 
V.
Growth and Liquidity Aspirations
One of Entergy's financial aspirations is to deliver near-term operational earnings per share growth of 8-10% in 2005 and 2006. The company believes that this goal can be reasonably achieved through a combination of intrinsic growth and accretion due to share repurchases. Other financial aspirations include improving returns on invested capital, achieving various credit metric improvements and providing annual dividend increases.
Over the long-term, Entergy also aspires to deliver earnings per share growth of 5-6%, equal to top-quartile industry growth over the last 20 years, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations will be based upon a combination of intrinsic growth, accretion due to share repurchases and the deployment of capital into new investments over time.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2005 through 2007. Entergy expects to have $1.6 billion of cash available over this period for four potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Sources shown on the table include additional debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. This amount could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Similarly, share repurchases reflected on the table are based upon the $1.5 billion program approved in 2004, as well as the existing authorization in place to fund the exercise of employee stock options. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or material new investment opportunities.
 
Appendix E-1 provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendix E-2 includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
 
VI.
Appendices
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current quarter.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
Appendix C provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years along with a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures us ed in this release.
 
Appendix A-1 provides details of first quarter 2005 vs. 2004 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Other income (deductions) reflects the absence of any contribution in 2005 from Entergy-Koch, LP, $0.07 in first quarter 2004, the impact of which was offset by the adjustment in the decommissioning liability recorded during the quarter at Entergy Nuclear.
Net revenue decreased due primarily to lower usage in the residential sector during the quarter resulting in a decline in both billed and unbilled revenues.
Depreciation expense increased due to additions to plant in service.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased due primarily to higher benefits expense and higher outage costs in connection with planned fossil plant outages in first quarter 2005.
 
 
Appendix A-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix B-1 provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
 
Appendix B-2 provides a calendar of selected regulatory events scheduled or anticipated through 3quarter 2005.
rd
 
Appendix C provides estimates of the impact to operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense variables. These estimates are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance, and are based upon changes in variables which would result in increases to earnings per share. Equivalent decreases in earnings per share are estimated to result from variable changes in the opposite direction.
(h) Based on 2004 average fully diluted shares of approximately 230 million consistent with the assumption for all components included in 2005 guidance.
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix G-1.
 
O&M expense per megawatt-hour was redefined in third quarter 2004 to reflect billed megawatt hour sales as the denominator instead of megawatt-hours generated as previously used in the calculation.
Production cost does not include severance charges associated with the voluntary severance program recorded in fourth quarter 2003.
 
Appendix E-1 provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2005 through 2007 includes $3.8 billion for investment; more than $2.4 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.3 billion is associated with previously identified investments such as the steam generator replacement at Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 1, nuclear plant power uprates at Entergy Nuclear and Utility, purchase of the Perryville and Attala power plants, and other opportunities consistent with the company's growth investment strategy.
Appendix E-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
**********************************************************************************************************************************
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other proceedings at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractiv e prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported first quarter 2005 as-reported and operational earnings of $172.0 million, or 79 cents per share. This compares to as-reported earnings of $207.2 million, or 88 cents per share, and operational earnings of $192.0 million, or 81 cents per share, in the first quarter 2004. As-reported earnings in the prior period included the earnings contribution from Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and gas pipeline businesses that were sold in fourth quarter 2004.
"Solid performance at Entergy Nuclear helped to offset Utility results dampened by lower residential usage," said . "The degree of success we are able to accomplish on our regulatory agenda at both the state and federal level in the coming months will be critical to our ability to achieve our financial objectives."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
(a) Operational earnings for first quarter 2004 were originally reported as $0.88 per share. Following the sales of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and pipeline businesses, Entergy began treating earnings from Entergy-Koch as a special item, which revises the previously reported operational earnings for quarterly comparisons.
Utility, Parent & Other operational results decreased due to lower residential customer usage and higher operation and maintenance expenses.
Entergy Nuclear results increased over the same period last year due to higher contract pricing and a reduction in the decommissioning liability, partially offset by lower generation available as a result of a planned refueling outage that commenced during first quarter 2005.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business showed improved results due to enhanced operations and proceeds from sulfur dioxide allowances sold.
Entergy reached agreement for the purchase of the Attala power plant, a 480-megawatt gas unit in Mississippi.
Entergy Gulf States - Louisiana achieved a global settlement that resolves 12 open dockets and establishes a formula rate plan.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission issued a Declaratory Order approving Entergy's proposal, with some modifications, for an independent transmission coordinator.
In first quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other earned $91.8 million, or 42 cents per share, on an as-reported basis, compared to $128.5 million, or 55 cents per share, in first quarter 2004. Operational results in each period equaled as-reported results.
First quarter 2005 results reflect 1) a decline in net revenue due in part to lower unbilled revenues and 2) higher operation and maintenance expense due to planned outages at fossil generation plants during first quarter 2005, as well as higher employee benefits expense and increased depreciation expense. Unbilled revenues reflect the change in estimate, from the previous quarter, of sales late in the period for customers whose actual usage has not yet been billed.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in first quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down one percent, compared to first quarter 2004. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up nearly two percent. Industrial sales experienced an increase of one percent in first quarter 2005, compared to the same quarter last year, with usage by pipeline and chemical customers leading the growth.
Entergy Nuclear earned $78.0 million, or 36 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2005. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $68.8 million, or 29 cents per share, in first quarter 2004. The increase in earnings in first quarter 2005 was due primarily to higher contract pricing and a reduction in the decommissioning liability. This increase was partially offset by lower generation resulting from a planned refueling outage at the Indian Point 3 plant that commenced in first quarter 2005 compared to no refueling outages in first quarter 2004.
Energy Commodity Services results in first quarter 2005 include only earnings from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. Energy Commodity Services as-reported results in first quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP.
As-reported results for Energy Commodity Services in first quarter 2005 were $2.3 million, or one cent per share, compared to $9.8 million, or four cents per share, in first quarter 2004. The lower as-reported results reflect the absence of any earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP in 2005, due to the sales of Entergy-Koch's trading and pipeline businesses in late 2004. Operational results for Energy Commodity Services were $2.3 million, or one cent per share, in first quarter 2005 compared to a loss of $5.3 million, or three cents per share, one year ago reflecting primarily improved operations and the sale of SO allowances.
2
Entergy affirmed as-reported and operational earnings in the lower end of the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share for full year 2005.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other proceeding s at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3

Exhibit 99.4
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), and the related presentation included as Exhibit 99.3, contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share or mark to market earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital (ROIC), return on equity (ROE), and net margin are included on both an operational and as reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing r esults of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Operational earnings for first quarter 2004 were originally reported as $0.88 per share. Following the sales of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and pipeline businesses, Entergy began treating earnings from Entergy-Koch as a special item, which revises the previously reported operational earnings for quarterly comparisons. Operational earnings for the first quarter of 2004 as revised to reflect this exclusion is $0.81 per share.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt/net capital ratio, net debt ratio, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt retirement, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases contains the material limitation of failing to consider a significant non-operational item that impacted earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP and certain items that impact cash flow as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore does not give a complete picture of the results of operations or cash available to the business, each as calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures provided in the Earnings Releases. Investors and other readers should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share and net cash flow from operations, as prepared in accordance with GAAP.


