FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20050801075046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On August 1, 2005, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases"), which are incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, August 1, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 7.01 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On August 1, 2005, Entergy issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, August 1, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: August 1, 2005
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
August 1, 2005
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported second quarter 2005 earnings of $1.33 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational earnings for second quarter and year-to-date 2004 were originally reported as $1.14 per share and $2.02 per share, respectively. Following the announcement of the company's intent to sell Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and pipeline businesses, Entergy began treating earnings from Entergy-Koch as a special item, which revises the previously reported operational earnings for quarterly comparisons.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Second Quarter 2005
Utility, Parent & Other operational results increased due to higher revenues, customer usage, and accretion, partially offset by increased operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy Nuclear results equaled earnings for the same period last year. Lower generation as a result of planned and unplanned outages during the current quarter, and higher operation and maintenance expense were essentially offset by higher contract pricing and accretion.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business showed improved results due to a combination of lower operation and maintenance expense and proceeds from the sale of SO
2
allowances.
"Solid operational results in all areas produced earnings in line with our expectations for the quarter," said . "An unusually busy regulatory agenda was substantially cleared with very positive results across the board."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
 
Other Quarterly Highlights include:
Constructive decisions at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in the system agreement and affiliate purchased power contracts proceedings.
Settlement achieved in Entergy Louisiana's rate case proceeding including a new formula rate plan.
Legislation passed in Texas in support of EGSI-TX.
Entergy received the 2005 Edison Award, the electric power industry's top honor.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT on Monday, August 1, 2005, with access by telephone, 719-457-2661, confirmation code 836827. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for the following seven days by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 836827. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter and year-to-date 2005 versus 2004, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendix A-1 to this release. In addition, appendix A-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2005 was $266 million compared to $530 million generated in second quarter 2004. The decrease was due to several factors including:
Changes in the timing of fuel recovery in the current period compared to one year ago at Utility, Parent & Other.
Refunds paid to EGSI-LA and ELI customers in connection with the Louisiana global settlement agreed to earlier this year.
Increased pension funding at Utility, Parent & Other and Entergy Nuclear.
Increased income tax payments at Utility, Parent & Other.
Entergy expects net cash flow provided by operating activities for full year 2005 to exceed $2 billion.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In second quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other earned $1.05 per share on both as-reported and operational bases compared to $0.83 per share in second quarter 2004. Earnings in second quarter 2005 reflect:
An increase in net revenue due in part to higher unbilled revenues and higher usage in the residential and commercial and governmental sectors. Unbilled revenues reflect an estimate of revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest customer billings, net of the prior period reversal, which is now reflected in billed revenues.
Tax benefits from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
Accretion from Entergy's share repurchase program.
Higher operation and maintenance expense partially offset the impact of the above items at Utility, Parent & Other. The increased operation and maintenance expense was due to higher employee benefits expense, as well as increased nuclear outage expense and a reserve taken in connection with non-performance by a bankrupt vendor.
 
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4 below. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Residential sales in second quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 0.5 percent compared to second quarter 2004.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up approximately 1 percent.
Industrial sales, after adjusting for the planned loss of one customer to cogeneration, experienced an increase of 1 percent in second quarter 2005 compared to the same period a year ago with usage by chemical customers leading the growth.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases and potential financial impacts.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the second quarter 2005.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 95%, 90%, and 72% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $39, $41 and $42, for the remainder of 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has contracted for 66%, 36% and 31% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $24, $24 and $28, for the same periods.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.27 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2005, equaling its earnings for the same period in 2004. In second quarter 2005 EN had lower generation resulting from planned and unplanned outages at larger units compared to second quarter 2004. In addition, operation and maintenance expense increased quarter to quarter due to increased outage expense and higher employee benefits expense. Higher contract pricing and accretion partially offset the impact of the lower generation and higher expenses in the current quarter.
Other EN highlights included:
Capacity factor for the fleet was 91% for second quarter 2005 reflecting the impact of one full planned refueling outage and a partial refueling outage completed on a second plant during the period.
Average production costs increased due to lower generation resulting from planned refueling outages and the impact of unplanned outages.
Planned refueling outage at the Pilgrim station was completed in 25 days.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of EN's operational performance measures.
(c) The planned refueling outage at Indian Point 3 began in March 2005 and was completed in second quarter in a total of 26 days.
Energy Commodity Services
Second quarter 2005 results for Energy Commodity Services (ECS) include only earnings from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS as-reported results in second quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP (EKLP).
As-reported results for ECS in second quarter 2005 were $0.01 per share compared to $0.04 per share in second quarter 2004. The lower as-reported results reflect the absence of any earnings from EKLP in 2005, reflecting the sales of its trading and pipeline businesses in late 2004. Operational results for ECS were also $0.01 per share in second quarter 2005 compared to a loss of $(0.02) per share one year ago reflecting primarily lower operation and maintenance expense at the non-nuclear wholesale assets business as well as the sale of SO
2
allowances.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy affirmed as-reported and operational earnings guidance in the lower end of the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share for full year 2005. Earnings guidance for 2005 is detailed in Table 7, with June 2005 year-to-date actual results as its starting point. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses for the remainder of 2005 based on how the two remaining quarters of the year are expected to differ from the same period in 2004.
 
Entergy's full year 2005 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 8, with 2004 actual results as its starting point. This table reflects the projected changes in the earnings profile for each of Entergy's businesses based on how 2005 results are expected to differ from 2004.
Other key assumptions that are applicable for both Tables 7 and 8 are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Increased revenue from the impact of rate cases and sales growth projected at approximately 1.0 to 1.5%, excluding the impact of the loss of one industrial customer to cogeneration
Increased year over year operation and maintenance expense associated with inflation, benefits costs and assets acquired under the generation supply plan
Decreased interest expense
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Entergy Nuclear
Increased revenue due to an approximate $1 per megawatt hour increase in the energy contract price of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $39 per megawatt-hour in 2005
Increased revenue due to completion of power uprates
Capacity factor ranging from 92 to 95% including refueling outages at Indian Point 3 and Pilgrim, both completed in second quarter 2005, and the planned refueling outage at Vermont Yankee in fall 2005
Lower operation and maintenance expense resulting from productivity improvements partially offset by higher benefits expense
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Reduced year over year losses from non-nuclear wholesale assets
Share Repurchase Program
Repurchases through December 2005 under the announced $1.5 billion repurchase program resulting in end of year average diluted shares outstanding of approximately 215 million
 
 
 
 
V.
Financial Aspirations
One of Entergy's financial aspirations is to deliver near-term operational earnings per share growth of 8-10% in 2005 and 2006. The company believes that this goal can be reasonably achieved through a combination of intrinsic growth and accretion due to share repurchases. Other financial aspirations include improving returns on invested capital, achieving various credit metric improvements and providing annual dividend increases.
Over the long-term, Entergy also aspires to deliver earnings per share growth of 5-6%, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations will be based upon a combination of intrinsic growth, accretion due to share repurchases and the deployment of capital into new investments over time.
 
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2005 through 2007. Entergy expects to have $1.6 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Sources shown on the table include additional debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. This amount could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Similarly, share repurchases reflected on the table are based upon the $1.5 billion program approved in 2004, as well as the existing authorization in place to fund the exercise of employee stock options. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or material new investment opportunities.
Appendix E-1 provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendix E-2 includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
 
VI.
Appendices
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analyses and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including potential financial impacts.
Appendix C provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years along with a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures us ed in this release.
Appendix A-1 and A-2 provide details of second quarter and year-to-date 2005 vs. 2004 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Net revenue increased due primarily to higher unbilled revenue and higher usage in the residential and commercial and governmental sectors during second quarter 2005 compared to one year ago. The year-to-date increase in net revenues is due primarily to higher unbilled revenues in the current period.
Share repurchase effect reflects the impact of Entergy's repurchase activity.
Income taxes-other reflects the impact of tax benefits from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased in second quarter 2005 compared to the same period last year due primarily to
higher benefits expense and higher nuclear expense. In addition, a reserve taken for non-performance by a bankrupt vendor also led to higher expense during the period. For the year-to-date period, the increase in operation and maintenance expense was driven by these same factors as well as higher fossil generation expenses incurred earlier in 2005.
Other income (deductions) decreased in second quarter 2005 due primarily to the absence of any contribution this year from Entergy-Koch, LP, compared to $0.06 in second quarter 2004. For the year-to-date period, the decrease also reflects the absence of any earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP, $0.13 in 2004, partially offset by the adjustment to the decommissioning liability at Entergy Nuclear recorded in first quarter 2005.
 
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix B provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
 
Appendix C provides estimates of the impact to operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense variables. These estimates are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance, and are based upon changes in variables which would result in increases to earnings per share. Equivalent decreases in earnings per share are estimated to result from variable changes in the opposite direction.
Based on 2004 average fully diluted shares of approximately 230 million consistent with the assumption for all components included in 2005 guidance.
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix G-1.
 
O&M expense per megawatt-hour was redefined in third quarter 2004 to reflect billed megawatt hour sales as the denominator instead of megawatt-hours generated as previously used in the calculation.
Production cost does not include severance charges associated with the voluntary severance program recorded in fourth quarter 2003.
 
 
Appendix E-1 provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2005 through 2007 includes $3.8 billion for investment; more than $2.4 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.3 billion is associated with previously identified investments such as the steam generator replacement at Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 1, nuclear plant power uprates at Entergy Nuclear and Utility, purchase of the Perryville and Attala power plants, and other opportunities consistent with the company's growth investment strategy.
Appendix E-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions. In May 2005, Entergy terminated two separate revolving credit facilities of three and five years, totaling approximately $1.5 billion, and replaced them with a new $2 billion five-year credit facility with lower pricing and improved terms and conditions.
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
*********************************************************************************************************************************
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other proceedings at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices a nd on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported second quarter 2005 as-reported and operational earnings of $286.2 million, or $1.33 per share. This compares to as-reported earnings of $265.2 million, or $1.14 per share, and operational earnings of $252.2 million, or $1.08 per share, in the second quarter 2004. As-reported earnings in the prior period included the earnings contribution from Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and gas pipeline businesses that were sold in fourth quarter 2004.
"Solid operational results in all areas produced earnings in line with our expectations for the quarter," said "An unusually busy regulatory agenda was substantially cleared with very positive results across the board."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
(a) Operational earnings for second quarter and year-to-date 2004 were originally reported as $1.14 per share and $2.02 per share, respectively. Following the sales of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and pipeline businesses, Entergy began treating earnings from Entergy-Koch as a special item, which revises the previously reported operational earnings for quarterly comparisons.
Utility, Parent & Other operational results increased due to higher revenues, customer usage, and accretion from Entergy's share repurchase program, partially offset by increased operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy Nuclear results equaled earnings per share for the same period last year. Lower generation as a result of planned and unplanned outages during the current quarter, and higher operation and maintenance expense were essentially offset by higher contract pricing and accretion.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business showed improved results due to a combination of lower operation and maintenance expense and proceeds from the sale of SO allowances.
2
Constructive decisions at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in the system agreement and affiliate purchased power contracts proceedings.
Settlement achieved in Entergy Louisiana's rate case proceeding including a new formula rate plan.
Legislation passed in Texas in support of Entergy Gulf States - Texas.
Entergy received the 2005 Edison Award, the electric power industry's top honor.
In second quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other earned $226.8 million, or $1.05 per share, on an as-reported basis, compared to $192.7 million, or 83 cents per share, in second quarter 2004. Operational results in each period equaled as-reported results.
Second quarter 2005 results reflect an increase in net revenue due in part to higher unbilled revenues and higher residential, commercial, and governmental customer usage. Unbilled revenues reflect an estimate of revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest customer billings, net of the prior period reversal, which is now reflected in billed revenues. Second quarter 2005 results also reflect tax benefits from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and accretion from Entergy's share repurchase program. Higher operation and maintenance expense partially offset the impact of the above items. The increased operation and maintenance expense was due to higher employee benefits expense, as well as increased nuclear outage expense and a reserve taken in connection with non-performance by a bankrupt vendor.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in second quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up slightly, compared to second quarter 2004. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up approximately one percent compared to the prior quarter. Industrial sales, after adjusting for the planned loss of one customer to cogeneration, experienced an increase of one percent in second quarter 2005 compared to the second quarter 2004 with usage by chemical customers leading the growth.
Entergy Nuclear earned $58.3 million, or 27 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2005. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $63.0 million, or 27 cents per share, in second quarter 2004. In second quarter 2005 Entergy Nuclear had lower generation resulting from planned and unplanned outages at larger units compared to second quarter 2004. In addition, operation and maintenance expense increased quarter to quarter due to increased outage expense and higher employee benefits expense. Higher contract pricing and accretion partially offset the impact of the lower generation and higher expenses in the current quarter.
Energy Commodity Services results in second quarter 2005 include only earnings from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. Energy Commodity Services as-reported results in second quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP.
As-reported results for Energy Commodity Services in second quarter 2005 were $1.1 million, or one cent per share, compared to $9.5 million, or four cents per share, in second quarter 2004. The lower as-reported results reflect the absence of any earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP in 2005, reflecting the sales of its trading and pipeline businesses in late 2004. Operational results for Energy Commodity Services were also $1.1 million, or one cent per share, in second quarter 2005 compared to a loss of $3.5 million, or two cents per share, one year ago reflecting primarily lower operation and maintenance expense at the non-nuclear wholesale assets business as well as the sale of SO allowances.
2
Entergy affirmed as-reported and operational earnings guidance in the lower end of the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share for full year 2005.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other proceeding s at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other att ractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3

Exhibit 99.4
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), and the related presentation included as Exhibit 99.3, contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital (ROIC), return on equity (ROE), and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and as sists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt/net capital ratio, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt retirement, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's c ash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases contains the material limitation of failing to consider a significant non-operational item that impacted earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP and certain items that impact cash flow as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore does not give a complete picture of the results of operations or cash available to the business, each as calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures provided in the Earnings Releases and accompanying presentation. Investors and other readers should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as-reported earnings per share and net cash flow from operating activities, as prepared in accordance with GAAP.


