FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20050131075238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On January 31, 2005, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases"), which are incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, January 31, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 7.01 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On January 31, 2005, Entergy issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Monday, January 31, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: January 31, 2005
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

Exhibit 99.1
INVESTOR NEWS
January 31, 2005
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported fourth quarter 2004 earnings of $0.68 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.50 on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Fourth Quarter 2004
Utility, Parent & Other operational results more than doubled compared to fourth quarter 2003 due primarily to strong sales growth and a return to normal weather.
Entergy Nuclear results decreased slightly over the same period last year due to lower generation available as a result of planned refueling outages completed during fourth quarter 2004.
Energy Commodity Services achieved nearly break even results for the quarter. Improved results at Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business nearly offset the absence of any operational contribution from Entergy-Koch, LP.
"A return to more normal weather allowed the Utility to demonstrate the underlying strength of the business and the operational improvements that have been made," said . "The strong fourth quarter concluded another year where Entergy's operational results supported our stated aspirations in terms of growth, service and credit quality."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Other Quarterly Highlights:
The sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline were completed and will produce total cash proceeds to Entergy of more than $1 billion.
Entergy Nuclear successfully completed two refueling outages in its northeast fleet including power uprates totaling 57 megawatts.
New contracts signed at Entergy Nuclear raise the average price for its energy contracts by $2 per megawatt hour.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CST, Monday, January 31, 2005, with access by telephone, 719-457-2661, confirmation code 892012. The call can also be accessed and the presentation slides can be viewed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days following the teleconference by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 892012. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for fourth quarter and year-to-date 2004 versus 2003, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendices A-1 and A-2 to this release. In addition, appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in fourth quarter 2004 was more than $1.2 billion, an increase of nearly $400 million compared to fourth quarter 2003. The increase was due primarily to dividends received from Entergy-Koch, LP which reflected receipt of a majority of the proceeds from the sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline. The expected gain on the transaction will be recorded when the remainder of the proceeds are received in 2006 consistent with applicable accounting guidance for the transactions. The Entergy-Koch, LP dividends that were attributable to Entergy's share of the equity in earnings from the venture recorded by the company since the venture's inception, $503 million, are included in net cash flow provided by operating activities. The remainder of the proceeds received in fourth quarter, $359 million, is included in investing activities in Entergy's cash flow statement.
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities year-to-date through December 2004 increased more than $900 million compared to the same period in 2003.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
(a) Energy Commodity Services' cash amount above includes contributions from Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP that are recognized in Entergy Corporation's financial statements such as dividends received and taxes paid. In fourth quarter 2004 Entergy received the majority of proceeds due the company from the sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline, a portion of which is included in cash provided by operating activities.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In fourth quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other earned $0.36 per share on an as-reported basis compared to the fourth quarter 2003 loss of $(0.17) per share. Fourth quarter 2003 as-reported results included charges recorded in connection with Entergy's voluntary severance program. Operational earnings in fourth quarter 2004 were $0.29 per share compared to $0.13 per share for the same period one year ago. Earnings in fourth quarter 2004 reflect:
Strong sales growth across all customer classes reflecting strength in the regional economy.
A return to normal weather in 2004 compared to milder-than-normal weather in fourth quarter 2003.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4 below. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in fourth quarter 2004, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up nearly 5 percent compared to fourth quarter 2003.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up more than 3 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of nearly 7 percent in fourth quarter 2004 compared to prior quarter with usage by petroleum refining and chemical customers leading the growth.
For the year 2004, Utility, Parent and Other earned $2.86 per share on an as-reported basis, compared with $1.93 per share for 2003. Operational earnings in 2004 were $2.79 per share compared to $2.62 per share for 2003. The higher operational earnings in 2004 were due primarily to sales growth and lower interest costs which were partially offset by milder-than-normal weather in the current year.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
 
 
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the fourth quarter 2004.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 95%, 89%, and 69% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $39, $40 and $42, for 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has contracted for 63%, 44% and 38% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $24, $24 and $28, for the same periods.
 
 
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.22 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2004, compared to a loss of $(0.01) per share on an as-reported basis and $0.24 per share on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2003. Fourth quarter 2003 as-reported results included charges recorded in connection with Entergy's voluntary severance program. Lower operational earnings for EN in fourth quarter 2004 were due primarily to lower generation resulting from two planned refueling outages in fourth quarter 2004 compared to no refueling outages in fourth quarter 2003. Increased revenue due primarily to higher contract pricing partially offset the impact of lower generation in fourth quarter 2004 results.
Other Entergy Nuclear highlights included:
Capacity factor for the fleet was 85% for fourth quarter 2004 reflecting the impact of two planned refueling outages; capacity factor for the full year 2004 was over 90%.
Average production costs increased due to a combination of lower generation and higher operation and maintenance expenses in fourth quarter 2004 compared to one year ago. On a year-to-date basis, production costs reflect a slight decrease compared to the same period in 2003.
For the year 2004, Entergy Nuclear earned $1.06 per share on an as-reported basis, compared with $1.30 per share for 2003. Operational earnings in 2004 were $1.06 per share compared to $0.85 per share for 2003. The higher operational earnings in 2004 were due primarily to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and additional revenues from a new services contract.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
(c) Production cost does not include severance charges associated with the voluntary severance program recorded in fourth quarter 2003.
(d) Table reflects the entire duration of refueling outages that were completed in the fourth quarter 2004. For the FitzPatrick plant, 6 refueling outage days occurred in third quarter 2004.
Energy Commodity Services
As-reported results for Energy Commodity Services (ECS) include the earnings impacts of Entergy-Koch, LP (EKLP) and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS's as-reported results in fourth quarter 2004 were $0.10 per share compared to $0.01 per share one year ago. The improved results reflect tax benefits recorded of $0.42 per share associated with restructuring a portion of Entergy's position in its non-nuclear wholesale assets business. The impact of these tax benefits was partially offset by:
an impairment of $(0.16) per share recorded in connection with the Warren Power plant, a gas-fired unit in Vicksburg, Mississippi.
a loss from EKLP of $(0.15) per share in the current quarter compared to earnings of $0.08 per share in the same period of 2003.
ECS recorded a loss of $(0.01) per share on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2004 compared to earnings of $0.01 per share one year ago. Operational results in fourth quarter 2004 reflect:
Absence in the current period of earnings from EKLP consistent with Entergy's announcement of the sale of EKLP's trading and pipeline businesses. EKLP operational earnings in fourth quarter 2003 were $0.08 per share.
An improvement in results at Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business with a loss of $(0.01) per share in fourth quarter 2004 compared to a loss of $(0.07) per share in the same period last year. The improved results came primarily from higher revenues due to lower operational expenses and higher energy margins.
 
For the year 2004, ECS earned $0.01 per share on an as-reported basis, compared with $0.78 per share for 2003. On an operational basis, ECS recorded a loss of $(0.05) per share in 2004 compared to earnings of $0.78 per share for 2003. The lower operational results in 2004 were due primarily to the absence in 2004 of operational results from EKLP, consistent with Entergy's announcement of the sale of EKLP's trading and pipeline businesses. EKLP operational earnings for full year 2003 were $0.88 per share while the venture incurred a loss of $(0.22) for full year 2004.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
"We project as-reported and operational earnings in the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share for full year 2005, reflecting very solid growth over 2004 operational results," said . "Key assumptions supporting this guidance include normal weather, the continued successful execution of operating strategies across our businesses and continued execution of share repurchases under our previously announced $1.5 billion program."
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer
Entergy's 2005 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below, with 2004 actual results as its starting point. Guidance for 2005 is based on the assumption that the company executes incremental share repurchases under its $1.5 billion repurchase program announced in August 2004. Other key assumptions are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Increased revenue from the impact of rate cases and sales growth projected in the 1.5 to 2.0% range, excluding the impact of the anticipated loss of one cogeneration customer
Increased operation and maintenance expenses associated with inflation, benefits costs and assets acquired under the generation supply plan
Decreased interest expense
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Entergy Nuclear
Increased revenues due to an approximate $1 per megawatt hour increase in the pricing of power purchase agreements, which is expected to average about $39 per megawatt-hour in 2005
Increased revenues due to completion of power uprates
Capacity factor ranging from 92 to 95% including planned refueling outages at Indian Point 3 and Pilgrim in spring 2005 and Vermont Yankee in fall 2005
Lower operation and maintenance expense achieved from additional productivity improvements at Entergy Nuclear
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Accretion from the share repurchase program
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Reduced losses from non-nuclear wholesale assets
Share Repurchase Program
Repurchases of 17 to 22 million shares are completed from August 2004 through December 2005 under the announced $1.5 billion repurchase program
 
 
V.
Growth and Liquidity Aspirations
One of Entergy's financial aspirations is to deliver near-term operational earnings growth of 8-10% in 2005 and 2006. The company believes that this goal can be reasonably achieved through a combination of intrinsic growth and accretion due to share repurchases. Other financial aspirations include improving returns on invested capital, achieving various credit metric improvements and providing annual dividend increases.
Over the long-term, Entergy also aspires to deliver earnings growth of 5-6%, equal to top-quartile industry growth over the last 20 years, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality. The company's ability to achieve or exceed these aspirations will be based upon a combination of intrinsic growth, accretion due to share repurchases and the deployment of capital into new investments over time.
 
Table 8 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital deployment for the period 2005 through 2007. Entergy expects to have $1.6 billion of cash available over the 2005-2007 period for four potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Sources shown on the table include additional debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. This amount could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Similarly, share repurchases reflected on the table are based upon the $1.5 billion program approved in 2004, as well as the existing authorization in place to fund the exercise of employee stock options. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or material new investment opportunities.
 
Appendix E-1 provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendix E-2 includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including a calendar of scheduled events and potential financial impacts.
Appendix C provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years along with a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP and non-G AAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A-1 and A-2 provide details of fourth quarter and year-to-date 2004 vs. 2003 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Income taxes - - other decreased due primarily to the impact of tax benefits recorded in fourth quarter 2004 associated with the Entergy-Koch, LP investment.
Income taxes - - other decreased due primarily to the impact of tax benefits recorded in fourth quarter 2004 associated with restructuring a portion of the non-nuclear wholesale assets business. In addition, differences between statutory and effective tax rates are reflected in the "income tax - - other" line.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased due primarily to the absence of charges recorded in fourth quarter 2003 in connection with a voluntary severance program.
Net revenue increased due to strong sales growth across all retail classes in fourth quarter 2004, as well as the effects of a return to normal weather. Net revenue also increased as a result of higher revenues in the competitive retail business for both the fourth quarter and full year 2004.
Interest and dividend income increased due to higher decommissioning trust investment earnings resulting from basis adjustments in 2003 to various trust assets.
Asset impairments reflect the impact of an impairment reserve recorded at the non-nuclear wholesale assets business for the Warren Power plant.
Other income (deductions) decreased due primarily to Entergy-Koch losses.
Increase in net revenue was attributed primarily to higher revenues from Entergy Nuclear due to higher contract pricing and additional revenues from a new services contract.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased due primarily to the absence of
c harges recorded in 2003 in connection with a voluntary severance program partially offset by
higher expenses at competitive retail and higher customer support expenses.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased due primarily to the absence of
charges recorded in 2003 in connection with a voluntary severance program and productivity improvements achieved at Entergy Nuclear in 2004.
Interest expense and other charges decreased due primarily to debt retirements and refinancings.
Depreciation expense increased due to additions to plants in service and adjustments related to the Grand Gulf nuclear plant's sale and leaseback transaction.
Depreciation expense increased due to additions to plant in service at Entergy Nuclear.
Other income (deductions) for the year increased due primarily to the absence of the River Bend loss provision recorded in second quarter 2003 and the reevaluation of River Bend's decommissioning liability in third quarter 2004.
Other income (deductions) decreased due primarily to lower Entergy-Koch earnings partially offset by a reevaluation of decommissioning liabilities at Entergy Nuclear.
Cumulative effect of accounting changes reflects the implementation of SFAS 143, the financial impact of which was originally recorded in first quarter 2003.
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
(u)Totals may not foot due to rounding.
Appendix B-1 provides a summary of the selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
 
 
Appendix B-2 provides a calendar of selected regulatory events scheduled or anticipated through 3quarter 2005.
rd
 
Appendix C provides estimates of the impact to operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense variables. These estimates are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance, and are based upon changes in variables which would result in increases to earnings per share. Equivalent decreases in earnings per share are estimated to result from variable changes in the opposite direction.
(v) Based on current fully diluted shares of approximately 230 million consistent with the assumption for all components included in 2005 guidance.
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix G-1.
 
O&M expense per megawatt hour was redefined in third quarter 2004 to reflect billed megawatt hour sales as the denominator instead of megawatt hours generated as previously used in the calculation.
Production cost does not include severance charges associated with the voluntary severance program recorded in fourth quarter 2003.
Appendix E-1 provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2005 through 2007 includes $3.8 billion for investment; more than $2.4 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.3 billion is associated with previously identified investments such as the steam generator replacement at Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 1, nuclear plant power uprates at Entergy Nuclear and Utility, the purchase of the Perryville plant, and other opportunities consistent with the company's growth investment strategy.
Appendix E-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
 
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
**********************************************************************************************************************************
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other proceedings at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its non-utility nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred st ock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
This is the first year that Entergy's independent auditor is conducting an audit of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's (PCAOB's) new Auditing Standard and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. This audit is not yet complete and therefore Entergy does not have the benefit of a final determination from its auditor that it does not have a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting. However, Entergy management has not identified any such material weakness and believes that no material weaknesses exist.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported fourth quarter 2004 as-reported earnings of $154.9 million, or 68 cents per share, compared with an as-reported loss of $39.5 million, or 17 cents per share, for fourth quarter 2003. On an operational basis, Entergy's fourth quarter 2004 earnings were $113.6 million, or 50 cents per share, compared with $89.2 million, or 38 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2003.
For the year 2004, Entergy's as-reported earnings were $909.5 million, or $3.93 per share, and operational earnings were $879.5 million, or $3.80 per share. These results compare with as-reported earnings in 2003 of $926.9 million, or $4.01 per share, and operational earnings of $981.5 million, or $4.25 per share.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
"A return to more normal weather allowed the Utility to demonstrate the underlying strength of the business and the operational improvements that have been made," said . "The strong fourth quarter concluded another year where Entergy's operational results supported our stated aspirations in terms of growth, service, and credit quality."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Utility, Parent & Other operational results more than doubled, compared to fourth quarter 2003 due primarily to strong sales growth and a return to normal weather.
Entergy Nuclear results decreased slightly over the same period last year due to lower generation available as a result of planned refueling outages completed during fourth quarter 2004.
Energy Commodity Services achieved nearly break-even results for the quarter. Improved results at Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business nearly offset the absence of any operational contribution from Entergy-Koch, LP.
The sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline were completed and will produce total cash proceeds to Entergy of more than $1 billion.
Entergy Nuclear successfully completed two refueling outages in its northeast fleet including power uprates totaling 57 megawatts.
New contracts signed at Entergy Nuclear raise the average price for its energy contracts by $2 per megawatt hour.
In fourth quarter 2004, Utility, Parent & Other earned $82.3 million, or 36 cents per share, on an as-reported basis, compared to a fourth quarter 2003 loss of $40.6 million, or 17 cents per share. Fourth quarter 2003 as-reported results included charges recorded in connection with Entergy's voluntary severance program. Operational earnings in fourth quarter 2004 were $65.6 million, or 29 cents per share, compared to $30.4 million, or 13 cents per share, for the same period one year ago.
Fourth quarter 2004 earnings reflect strong sales growth across all customer classes, reflecting strength in the regional economy, and a return to normal weather in 2004, compared to milder than normalweather in fourth quarter 2003.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in fourth quarter 2004, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up nearly five percent, compared to fourth quarter 2003. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up more than three percent. Industrial sales experienced an increase of nearly seven percent in fourth quarter 2004, compared to the same quarter last year, with usage by petroleum refining and chemical sectors leading the growth.
For the year 2004, Utility, Parent & Other earned $661.0 million, or $2.86 per share, on an as-reported basis, compared with $445.7 million, or $1.93 per share, for 2003. Operational earnings in 2004 were $644.3 million, or $2.79 per share, compared to $603.6 million, or $2.62 per share, for 2003. The higher operational earnings in 2004 were due primarily to sales growth and lower interest costs, partially offset by milder than normal weather in the current year.
Entergy Nuclear earned $49.5 million, or 22 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2004. This compares to an as-reported loss of $0.7 million, or one cent per share, and operational earnings of $56.9 million, or 24 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2003. Fourth quarter 2003 as-reported results included charges recorded in connection with Entergy's voluntary severance program. Lower operational earnings for Entergy Nuclear in fourth quarter 2004 were due primarily to lower generation resulting from two planned refueling outages during the period at Indian Point 2 and FitzPatrick plants, compared to no refueling outages in fourth quarter 2003. Increased revenue due to higher contract pricing partially offset the impact of lower generation in fourth quarter 2004 results.
For the year 2004, Entergy Nuclear earned as-reported and operational earnings of $245.0 million, or $1.06 per share. These results compare with as-reported earnings of $300.8 million, or $1.30 per share, and operational earnings of $196.9 million, or 85 cents per share, in 2003. The higher operational earnings in 2004 were due primarily to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and additional revenues from a new services contract.
As-reported results for Energy Commodity Services include the earnings impacts of Entergy-Koch, LP and Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. Energy Commodity Services' as-reported results in fourth quarter 2004 were $23.1 million, or 10 cents per share, compared to $1.8 million, or one cent per share, a year ago. The improved results reflect tax benefits associated with restructuring a portion of Entergy's position in its non-nuclear wholesale assets business.The impact of the tax benefits was partially offset by an impairment recorded in connection with the Warren Power plant, a gas-fired unit in Vicksburg, Mississippi, and a loss from Entergy-Koch, LP in the current quarter, compared to earnings in the same period of 2003.
Earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP are excluded from Energy Commodity Services' operational earnings consistent with Entergy's announcement of the sale of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading business and Gulf South Pipeline. Energy Commodity Services recorded a loss of $1.6 million, or one cent per share, on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2004, compared to earnings of $3.0 million, or one cent per share, a year ago. The results in fourth quarter 2004 reflect the absence of earnings from Entergy-Koch, LP noted above and improved results from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business resulting from higher revenues due to lower operational expenses and higher energy margins.
For the year 2004, Energy Commodity Services earned $3.5 million, or one cent per share, on an as-reported basis, compared with $180.5 million, or 78 cents per share, for 2003. On an operational basis, Energy Commodity Services recorded a loss of $9.8 million, or five cents per share, in 2004, compared to earnings of $181.0 million, or 78 cents per share, in 2003. The lower operational results in 2004 were due primarily to the absence in 2004 of operational results from Entergy-Koch, LP, consistent with Entergy's announcement of the sale of Entergy-Koch, LP's trading and pipeline businesses.
"We project as-reported and operational earnings in the range of $4.60 to $4.85 per share for full year 2005, reflecting very solid growth over 2004 operational results," said "Key assumptions supporting this guidance include normal weather, the continued successful execution of operating strategies across our businesses and continued execution of share repurchases under our previously announced $1.5 billion program."
Leo Denault, Entergy's chief financial officer.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of over $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other proceedings at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, particularly at its non-utility nuclear generating facilities, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred st ock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce current tax payments, and the effects of litigation and weather.
This is the first year that Entergy's independent auditor is conducting an audit of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's (PCAOB's) new Auditing Standard and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. This audit is not yet complete and therefore Entergy does not have the benefit of a final determination from its auditor that it does not have a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting. However, Entergy management has not identified any such material weakness and believes that no material weaknesses exist.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 


Exhibit 99.4
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), and the related presentation included as Exhibit 99.3, contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital (ROIC), return on equity (ROE), and net margin are included on both an operational and as reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and as sists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt/net capital ratio, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt retirement, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's c ash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases contains the material limitation of failing to consider significant non-operational items that impacted earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP and certain items that impact cash flow as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore does not give a complete picture of the results of operations or cash available to the business, each as calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures provided in the Earnings Releases. Investors and other readers should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as reported earnings per share and net cash flow from operations, as prepared in accordance with GAAP.


