FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20051101072100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On November 1, 2005, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases"), which are incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Tuesday , November 1, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Entergy Corporation
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 7.01 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On November 1, 2005, Entergy issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Tuesday, November 1, 2005 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: November 1, 2005
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
November 1, 2005
CLINTON, MISS - Entergy Corporation reported third quarter 2005 earnings of $1.65 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2005
Utility, Parent & Other was negatively affected by two hurricanes but showed increased results due to higher weather-driven revenues, decreased operation and maintenance expense and accretion.
Entergy Nuclear results increased as the result of higher generation due to uprates and fewer planned and unplanned outages during the current quarter, and lower operation and maintenance expense and accretion.
Entergy-s non-nuclear wholesale assets business had lower results due to reduced revenues and higher operation and maintenance expense.
"The two most significant natural disasters ever experienced at Entergy in Hurricanes Katrina and Rita tested the skill, the will and the courage of our employees and certainly the patience and understanding of our customers," said . "Entergy has responded to the challenges posed by these unprecedented times and we are committed to continuing to provide a high level of service to our customers, to maintain a financially sound company and to deliver top quartile returns to our shareholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy-s chief executive officer
Entergy also announced today a new financing plan to source from $2.5 to $3.0 billion through a combination of debt and equity linked securities. The plan, which will be implemented over the next several months, will include 1) increasing the capacity on Entergy Corporation-s credit revolver by up to $1.5 billion; 2) issuing $0.5 to $1.0 billion of equity linked securities; 3) issuing up to $0.5 billion of new debt at various utility operating companies; and 4) providing funding in the amount of $300 million from the parent company to Entergy Gulf States, Inc. This financing plan is designed to provide adequate liquidity to Entergy and its subsidiaries while storm restoration cost recovery is pursued from a combination of insurance providers, federal and state legislation, and jurisdictional regulatory proceedings.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CST on Tuesday, November 1, 2005, with access by telephone, 719-457-2649, confirmation code 970768. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy-s web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for the following fourteen days by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 970768. The replay will also be available on Entergy-s web site at
www.entergy.com/webcasts
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter and year-to-date 2005 versus 2004, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy-s net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2005 was $334 million compared to $768 million generated in third quarter 2004. The decrease was due to:
Effects of two hurricanes which served to reduce revenues and generate significant storm restoration costs.
Changes in the timing and amounts of fuel recovery in the current period compared to one year ago at Utility, Parent & Other.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
(a) Third quarter 2004 and year-to-date third quarter 2004 net cash flow from operating activities have been revised to reflect the deconsolidation of Entergy New Orleans, Inc.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In third quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other earned $1.35 per share on both as-reported and operational bases compared to $1.11 per share in third quarter 2004. Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) results for the quarter are included in Utility, Parent & Other earnings. However, ENOI was de-consolidated for third quarter 2005 reporting purposes as explained in Appendix A of this release. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations that follow exclude the revenues and expenses of ENOI. Earnings in third quarter 2005, exclusive of ENOI, reflect:
Storms- impact which reduced overall customer usage and revenues.
An increase in net revenue due primarily to warmer than normal weather resulting in higher usage in the residential, commercial and governmental sectors.
Lower operation and maintenance expense due to resources normally dedicated to operation and maintenance tasks being shifted to storm restoration work. In addition, a portion of the proceeds received during third quarter 2005 from a settlement with the Central Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact Commission were applied against operation and maintenance expense.
Accretion from Entergy-s share repurchase program.
ENOI results for third quarter 2005 contributed $0.03 per share, compared to $0.06 per share one year ago. The decrease, due to outages caused by Hurricane Katrina, reflects $15 million of lower net revenue compared to one year ago while overall fixed costs of ENOI remained essentially unchanged.
Electricity usage excluding ENOI, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4 below. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Residential sales in third quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down nearly 2 percent compared to third quarter 2004.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down nearly 1 percent.
Industrial sales, after adjusting for the planned loss of one customer to cogeneration, experienced a decrease of nearly 3 percent in third quarter 2005 compared to the same period a year ago.
Weather-adjusted sales usage was lower in the current period due primarily to customer outages in all customer classes caused by two major hurricanes that made landfall in the Entergy service territory during third quarter 2005.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility-s operational performance measures.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases and potential financial impacts.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy-s competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses- capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the third quarter 2005.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 96%, 91%, and 73% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $39, $41 and $42, for the remainder of 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has contracted for 47%, 26% and 23% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $23, $24 and $28, for the same periods.
 
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.33 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2005, compared to $0.28 in third quarter 2004. In third quarter 2005 EN had higher generation resulting from uprates, no planned outage time and fewer unplanned outages compared to third quarter 2004. In addition, operation and maintenance expense decreased quarter to quarter due to lower refueling outage amortization expense. Also, accretion impacted EN-s earnings during the current period.
Other EN highlights included:
Capacity factor for the fleet was 95% for third quarter 2005 reflecting fewer unplanned outages and no planned outage time. There were six planned refueling outage days at the FitzPatrick unit in third quarter 2004.
Average production costs decreased due primarily to higher generation resulting from uprates, no planned outage time and fewer unplanned outages.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of EN-s operational performance measures.
(c) The planned refueling outage at FitzPatrick began in September 2004 and was completed in fourth quarter 2004 in a total of 30 days.
Energy Commodity Services
Third quarter 2005 results for Energy Commodity Services (ECS) include only earnings from Entergy-s non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS as-reported results in third quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP (EKLP).
As-reported results for ECS in third quarter 2005 were $(0.03) per share compared to a loss of $(0.17) per share in third quarter 2004. As-reported results in the current period reflect the absence of any results from EKLP, which business incurred a loss of $(0.19) in third quarter 2004. The trading and pipeline businesses of EKLP were sold in late 2004. Operational results for ECS were also a loss of $(0.03) per share in third quarter 2005 compared to no earnings per share on an operational basis one year ago. The loss in the current period reflects reduced revenues and increased operational costs compared to third quarter 2004.
IV.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy had noted, in an Investor Release dated September 6, 2005, that it was unable to affirm its previously issued earnings guidance for the year 2005 due to its inability to estimate the revenue and expenditure impact of Hurricane Katrina. As of the date of this release, Entergy continues to be unable to affirm 2005 earnings guidance. The impact of this storm along with Hurricane Rita-s effects have created uncertainties in Entergy-s business which also require the company to eliminate selected financial disclosures on cash available for capital deployment and planned capital expenditures that were previously presented in quarterly earnings releases.
Entergy is currently focused on resolving challenges and uncertainties brought on by the hurricanes. While these activities may affect near-term financial performance, the company-s long-term aspirations remain in tact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of 5-6%, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company-s overall credit quality over the long term. The company-s ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination factors which include but are not limited to intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deployment in investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
V.
Appendices
Nine appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy New Orleans, Inc.-s filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analyses and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases, including potential financial impacts.
Appendix D provides estimates of earnings per share sensitivities related to variables that impact utility and nuclear results.
Appendix E provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix F provides a summary of Entergy Corporation-s financing authority and that of its operating subsidiaries as well as a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides current storm restoration data for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
Appendix H provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix I provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
Appendix A provides information on the petition filed by Entergy New Orleans, Inc. for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as well as related activities subsequent to the initial filing.
Bankruptcy Filing
To protect its customers and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Numerous motions on behalf of various parties involved in this proceeding have been filed with additional motions expected prior to the final hearing date on the bankruptcy petition currently scheduled for December 7, 2005. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding go to
www.entergy.com/Investor/financial/enoi.asp
Financing
Simultaneous with the filing on September 23, 2005, ENOI filed a motion with the Court for "debtor-in-possession" (DIP) financing that contemplated Entergy Corporation making loans up to $200 million to ENOI to address ENOI-s current liquidity crisis. The petition also requested that up to $150 million of these loans be approved on an interim basis, with such amount being subsequently amended to be $100 million. These funds were requested to enable ENOI to meet its near-term obligations, including employee wages and benefits, payments under power purchase and gas supply agreements, and its existing efforts to repair and restore the facilities needed to serve its electric and gas customers. On September 26, 2005, the bankruptcy court approved interim DIP financing up to $100 million. On October 11, 2005, ENOI filed a motion in bankruptcy court to increase the interim DIP financing available to $200 million. On October 26, 2005, the bankruptcy court approved ENOI-s requ est and the DIP financing limit was increased to $200 million. Entergy and ENOI also filed a request with the Securities and Exchange Commission to increase the interim DIP financing to $200 million, with an order expected in early December 2005. The approval by the Court, along with SEC approval, will allow Entergy Corporation to provide additional funding through DIP financing but such funding will be provided by Entergy Corporation at its discretion.
Accounting
Entergy owns 100 percent of the common stock of ENOI and has, subject to the rules and requirements of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, continued to supply operating management to ENOI. However, uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings have caused Entergy to de-consolidate ENOI for financial reporting purposes beginning in third quarter 2005 with ENOI-s financial results being recorded under the equity method of accounting. Under this methodology, earnings from ENOI are now reflected in Entergy-s income statement as equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  Because Entergy owns all of the common stock of ENOI, this change has not impacted the amount of net income Entergy has recorded in the current period or any historical period but has resulted in ENOI-s net income being presented in one line item rather than included in each individual income statement line item presented. In addition, various line items of Entergy-s consolidated balance sheet and cash flow statement have been revised to reflect the impact of de-consolidating ENOI.
Entergy also noted that events related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and the bankruptcy proceeding for ENOI noted above, that occur prior to the filing of the third quarter financial statements under Form 10-Q, could result in a subsequent event(s) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This subsequent event(s) might materially change the accounting disclosures and/or the reported income of Entergy and one or more of its operating subsidiaries. Examples of events that might result in subsequent event accounting and disclosure could include a determination as to the permanent loss of certain customers, finalization of insurance proceeds, potential regulatory outcomes and/or other potential adverse events related to ENOI-s filing for bankruptcy protection, among other things.
 
Appendix B-1 and B-2 provide details of third quarter and year-to-date 2005 vs. 2004 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased in third quarter 2005 compared to the same period last year due primarily to resources deployed to storm restoration projects and proceeds received from a settlement, a portion of which offset operation and maintenance expense, associated with low-level radioactive waste services
. For the year-to-date period, the increase in operation and maintenance expense was due primarily to higher benefits expense, nuclear expense and fossil outage expense, partially offset by the storm restoration work and settlement proceeds noted above.
Share repurchase effect reflects the impact of Entergy-s repurchase activity.
Other income (deductions) increased in third quarter 2005 due primarily to the absence of losses this year from Entergy-Koch, LP, which amounted to $(0.19) in third quarter 2004, the impact of which was partially offset by the absence of an adjustment in third quarter 2004 to the decommissioning liabilities at Entergy Nuclear. For the year-to-date period, the increase also reflects the absence of losses from Entergy-Koch, LP, $(0.07) in 2004.
Net revenue increased due primarily to higher usage in the residential and commercial and governmental sectors during third quarter 2005 compared to one year ago as a result of warmer than normal weather. A portion of the net revenue increase during the quarter was offset by lower volume as a result of major storms and resulting outages during the period. The year-to-date increase in net revenues is due primarily to warmer than normal wea ther and higher unbilled revenues compared to one year ago.
Interest expense and other charges increased due primarily to higher short-term borrowings during third quarter 2005.
 
 
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
Appendix D provides estimates of the impact to operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense variables. These estimates are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance, and are based upon changes in variables which would result in increases to earnings per share. Equivalent decreases in earnings per share are estimated to result from variable changes in the opposite direction.
Based on 2004 average fully diluted shares of approximately 230 million.
 
Appendix E-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix E-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix I-1.
Data has not been restated for the de-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in third quarter 2005.
Appendix F-1 provides details on the financing authority of Entergy Corporation and each of its operating companies at September 30, 2005. Short-term authority may be for secured or unsecured financing and varies by company. Long-term borrowing authority is limited by approvals obtained from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. Further restrictions may be imposed by local regulatory authorities.
Authority reflects restrictions beyond 1935 Act imposed by local regulator.
Liquidity data for Entergy New Orleans is not included due to its filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code and the subsequent decision by Entergy to de-consolidate Entergy New Orleans for financial reporting purposes.
Entergy also announced today a new financing plan to source from $2.5 to $3.0 billion through a combination of debt and equity linked securities. The plan, which will be implemented over the next several months, will include 1) increasing the capacity on Entergy Corporation-s credit revolver by up to $1.5 billion; 2) issuing $0.5 to $1.0 billion
of equity linked securities; 3) issuing up to $0.5 billion of new debt at various utility operating companies; and 4) providing funding in the amount of $300 million from the parent company to Entergy Gulf States, Inc. The timing for implementation of certain components of the new financing plan will depend, in part, on market conditions and the SEC-s registration process.
This financing plan is primarily designed to provide adequate liquidity to Entergy and its subsidiaries while storm restoration cost recovery is pursued. In addition, the plan will ensure adequate liquidity is available to support Entergy Nuclear and the competitive retail business. Depending on prevailing market prices, both of these businesses may be required to provide assurances in the form of corporate guarantees, lines of credit or cash to counterparties to demonstrate their commitments to deliver physical power at previously-established contract prices even if those prices are below market. As of September 30, 2005, Entergy provided approximately $1.7 billion of assurances to various counterparties primarily in the form of corporate guarantees. The assurance requirement associated with Entergy Nuclear is estimated to increase by an amount up to $425 million if gas prices increase $1 per MMBtu across the entire forward curve.
Appendix F-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
Appendix G gives details related to the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita including estimated costs and recent outage data for customers, transmission lines and substations.
At the peak of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita, generating plants owned or operated by Entergy subsidiaries totaling 4,652 MW and 2,989 MW, respectively were in storm-related outages. As of October 21, 2005, 927 MW of capacity remains unavailable due to extensive flooding with all other plants available for service, other than those in planned outages.
Appendix H provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices I-1 and I-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure. Appendices I-3 through I-9 provide reconciliations of 2004 pro-forma financial statements to 2004 GAAP financial statements due to the deconsolidation of Entergy New Orleans.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*********************************************************************************************************************************
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and oth er proceedings at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy-s ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy-s generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy-s unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy-s ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy-s ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy-s ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy-s strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and weather, and uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy-s ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact, if any, of this proceeding on other Entergy companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 500 Clinton Center Drive Clinton, MS  39056
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
Clinton, Miss. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported third quarter 2005 as-reported and operational earnings of $350.0 million, or $1.65 per share. This compares to as-reported earnings of $282.2 million, or $1.22 per share, and operational earnings of $321.7 million, or $1.39 per share, in third quarter 2004.
"The two most significant natural disasters ever experienced at Entergy in Hurricanes Katrina and Rita tested the skill, the will, and the courage of our employees and certainly the patience and understanding of our customers," said , Entergy's chief executive officer. "Entergy has responded to the challenges posed by these unprecedented times and we are committed to continuing to provide a high level of service to our customers, to maintain a financially sound company, and to deliver top quartile returns to our shareholders."
J. Wayne Leonard
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other was negatively affected by two hurricanes but showed increased results due to higher weather-driven revenues, decreased operation and maintenance expense and accretion.
Entergy Nuclear results increased as the result of higher generation due to uprates, fewer planned and unplanned outages during the current quarter and lower operation and maintenance expense and accretion.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business had lower results due to reduced revenues and higher operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy also announced today a new financing plan to source from $2.5 to $3.0 billion through a combination of debt and equity linked securities. The financing plan is designed to provide adequate liquidity to Entergy and its subsidiaries while storm restoration cost recovery is pursued from a combination of insurance providers, federal and state legislation, and jurisdictional regulatory proceedings.
In third quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other earned $285.8 million, or $1.35 per share, on an as-reported basis, compared to $257.5 million, or $1.11 per share, in third quarter 2004. Operational results in each period equaled as-reported results.
Entergy New Orleans results for the quarter are included in Utility, Parent & Other earnings. However, Entergy New Orleans was de-consolidated for third quarter 2005 financial reporting purposes due to uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the Entergy New Orleans bankruptcy proceedings. On September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to protect its customers and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.
Earnings in third quarter 2005 reflect the storms' impact which reduced overall customer usage and revenues. Third quarter results also reflect an increase in net revenue due primarily to warmer-than-normal weather resulting in higher usage in the residential, commercial, and governmental sectors and lower operation and maintenance expense due to resources normally dedicated to operation and maintenance tasks being shifted to storm restoration work. In addition, a portion of the proceeds received during third quarter 2005 from a settlement with the Central Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact Commission were applied against operation and maintenance expense. Accretion from Entergy's share repurchase program also impacted third quarter results.
Entergy New Orleans results for third quarter 2005 contributed three cents per share, compared to six cents per share one year ago. The decrease, due to outages caused by Hurricane Katrina, reflects $15 million of lower net revenue, compared to one year ago while overall fixed costs of Entergy New Orleans remained essentially unchanged.
Excluding Entergy New Orleans, megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in third quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down nearly two percent, compared to third quarter 2004. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were down nearly one percent, compared to the prior quarter. Industrial sales, after adjusting for the planned loss of one customer to cogeneration, experienced a decrease of nearly three percent in third quarter 2005 compared to the same period a year ago. Weather-adjusted sales usage was lower in the current period due primarily to customer outages in all customer classes caused by two major hurricanes that made landfall in the Entergy service territory during third quarter 2005.
Entergy Nuclear earned $69.3 million, or 33 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2005. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $63.7 million, or 28 cents per share, in third quarter 2004. In third quarter 2005 Entergy Nuclear had higher generation resulting from uprates, no planned outage time and fewer unplanned outages compared to third quarter 2004. In addition, operation and maintenance expense decreased quarter to quarter due to lower refueling outage amortization expense. Also, accretion impacted Entergy Nuclear's earnings during the current period.
Energy Commodity Services results in third quarter 2005 include only earnings from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. Energy Commodity Services as-reported results in third quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP.
Energy Commodity Services reported a loss of $5.1 million, or three cents per share, in third quarter 2005, compared to a loss of 17 cents per share in third quarter 2004. As-reported results in the current period reflect the absence of any results from Entergy-Koch, LP, which incurred a loss of 19 cents per share in third quarter 2004. The trading and pipeline businesses of Entergy-Koch, LP were sold in late 2004. Operational results for Energy Commodity Services were also a loss of $5.1 million, or three cents per share, in third quarter 2005, compared to no earnings on an operational basis one year ago. The loss in the current period reflects reduced revenues and increased operational costs compared to third quarter 2004.
As of the date of this release, Entergy continues to be unable to affirm 2005 earnings guidance. Entergy is currently focused on resolving challenges and uncertainties brought on by the hurricanes. While these activities may affect near-term financial performance, the company's long-term aspirations remain in tact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of 5-6 percent, to achieve a 9 percent return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality over the long term. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination factors which include, but are not limited to, intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm-related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deployment in investments, share repurchases, dividends, or debt retirement.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other proceedings a t local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attract ive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and weather, and uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact, if any, of this proceeding on other Entergy companies.
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3

Exhibit 99.4
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), and the related presentation included as Exhibit 99.3, contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on invested capital (ROIC), return on equity (ROE), and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and as sists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt/net capital ratio, operating cash flow, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt retirement, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Operating cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is operating cash flow reduced by planned maintenance capital expenditures and estimated preferred and common dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's c ash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP information presented in the Earnings Releases contains the material limitation of failing to consider a significant non-operational item that impacted earnings as calculated in accordance with GAAP and certain items that impact cash flow as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and therefore does not give a complete picture of the results of operations or cash available to the business, each as calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management compensates for this limitation by presenting its results of operation and financial condition using both the GAAP and non-GAAP measures provided in the Earnings Releases and accompanying presentation. Investors and other readers should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, as-reported earnings per share and net cash flow from operating activities, as prepared in accordance with GAAP.


