FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20060502071543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
(Entergy Corporation)
On May 2, 2006, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation.
(Entergy New Orleans)
As more fully-described in its report on Form 8-K filed on September 28, 2005 and in its report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, as borrower, has entered into the DIP Credit Agreement, a debtor-in-possession credit facility, with Entergy Corporation as lender. On April 28, 2006, Entergy New Orleans repaid $70 million under the DIP Credit Agreement, and as of that date $22 million in borrowings remain outstanding under the DIP Credit Agreement. The source of the funds used for the repayment was primarily an income tax refund received for prior tax years under the special provisions of the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005, as described in Note 3 to the financial statements in Entergy New Orleans' report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 2, 2006, Entergy issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation Entergy New Orleans, Inc.
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: May 2, 2006
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
May 2, 2006
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported first quarter 2006 earnings of $0.92 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.90 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2006
Utility, Parent & Other achieved higher earnings while still experiencing the effects of two hurricanes that reduced retail sales and pushed interest expense higher as borrowings increased to fund storm costs.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher generation due to fewer outage days and uprates, as well as higher energy pricing.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had lower results due to the absence of any sales of SO
2
allowances in the current period.
"Entergy continues to work to rebound from the devastation of last year's storms," said . "Constructive progress is evident across a range of operational and regulatory efforts, with more work to be done as we stay focused on delivering high quality service to our customers and strengthening our financial position and results of operations."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Other Highlights:
Two of Entergy's operating utilities received approval for interim storm cost recovery while provisions of recently enacted Gulf Opportunity Zone tax legislation resulted in a significant cash tax refund in connection with accelerated deductions for storm expenses.
Entergy received FERC approval for its Independent Coordinator of Transmission proposal.
Entergy Nuclear received approval for a 20 percent uprate at Vermont Yankee and advanced in the process of increasing generation output at the plant.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT on Tuesday, May 2, 2006, with access by telephone, 719-457-2621, confirmation code 6287406. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for the following seven days by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 6287406. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com
.
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2006 versus 2005, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other achieved higher earnings while still experiencing the effects of two hurricanes while Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher generation due to fewer outage days and uprates, as well as higher energy pricing. Also, Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business had modestly lower results due to the absence of any sales of SO
2
allowances in the current period.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendix B-1 to this release. In addition, appendix B-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in first quarter 2006 was $1.0 billion compared to $0.5 billion in first quarter 2005. The increase was due primarily to:
Receipt in first quarter 2006 of a tax refund of $344 million in connection with Gulf Opportunity Zone tax legislation passed in December 2005.
Increased collections of $130 million on deferred fuel balances at Utility, Parent & Other.
Higher revenue of approximately $30 million due to higher prices and incremental generation at Entergy Nuclear.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In first quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $0.54 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.52 per share on an operational basis compared to $0.42 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.43 per share in operational earnings in first quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect $0.02 per share in special items while there was $(0.01) per share in special items in 2005. Special items in first quarter 2006 include earnings at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) of $0.03 per share. Both first quarter 2006 and 2005 special items include the operating loss from the competitive retail business in Texas, which was $(0.01) per share in each period. Entergy sold its customer base in the retail business in April 2006.
ENOI results for first quarter 2006 are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings but are excluded from operational earnings. For first quarter 2005 Utility, Parent & Other results include ENOI on both on an as-reported and operational bases. Also, ENOI is de-consolidated for both first quarter 2006 and first quarter 2005 reporting purposes as explained in Appendix A of this release. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations that follow exclude the revenues and expenses of ENOI.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in first quarter 2006, exclusive of ENOI, reflect:
Constructive rate actions over the past year including the addition of two highly efficient gas-fired units in retail rates as well as improved margins on wholesale sales contracts.
Accretion from Entergy's share repurchase program.
Partially offsetting the above factors were higher operation and maintenance expense, higher interest expense realized in connection with borrowings to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and milder-than-normal weather. The higher operation and maintenance expense resulted from increased storm reserves and costs associated with Perryville and Attala which were expected and are being recovered in rates. Also contributing to the increase in operation and maintenance expense was higher nuclear expense associated with an unplanned outage.
ENOI results for first quarter 2006 reflect earnings of $0.03 per share. In first quarter 2005, ENOI also earned $0.03 per share. First quarter 2005 results reflect a normal operating environment for ENOI where results were primarily driven by margin on sales to retail customers. However, as a result of Hurricane Katrina, and the subsequent filing by ENOI for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, first quarter 2006 results reflect the ongoing impact of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by ENOI specific to its continuing effort to recover financially from this storm. Results for the current period include significantly lower revenues from customers due to extended outages and customer losses partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense due to the continued focus on storm restoration rather than routine operating activities, and ongoing cost reduction initiatives. In addition, net wholesale revenue is materially higher due to an increas e in energy available for sales for resale due to the lower retail usage caused by Hurricane Katrina. Finally, current results reflect lower interest expense due to the cessation of interest accruals on first mortgage bonds as a result of an agreement among bondholders and ENOI in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding.
 
Electricity usage excluding ENOI, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in first quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 2 percent compared to first quarter 2005.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 2 percent.
Industrial sales experienced a decrease of 4 percent in first quarter 2006 compared to the same period a year ago.
The decline in the industrial sector in first quarter reflects the storm-related impact that was concentrated in the chemical and refining industries which currently make up more than 50 percent of Entergy's industrial sales. Two large industrial customers remain out of service, with one expected to return shortly and the second by the end of second quarter 2006. High gas prices have placed some strain on the chemical and paper sectors, but large scale disruptions have not been experienced to date.
 
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
(a) Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the first quarter 2006.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 91%, 81%, and 59% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $41, $45 and $50, for the remainder of 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets has contracted for 21%, 21% and 23% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $25, $28 and $28, for the same periods.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.39 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2006, compared to $0.36 in first quarter 2005. In first quarter 2006 EN had higher generation resulting from the combination of uprates and no planned refueling outage days compared to twenty days in first quarter 2005. In addition, higher pricing contributed to the improved results at EN. Partially offsetting the contributions of higher generation and improved pricing was higher operation and maintenance expense due to the absence of refueling outages in the current period. Operation and maintenance expense decreases during outages as resources working the outage are deferred and subsequently amortized into expense over the next 18-24 months.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of EN's operational performance measures.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business realized a loss of $(0.01) per share on both an as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2006. As-reported and operational results in first quarter 2005 were $0.01 per share and included the sale of SO
2
allowances while there were no such sales in the current period.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share and operational earnings guidance of $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Earnings guidance ranges exclude ENOI given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works toward filing a plan of reorganization. During 2006, actual results for ENOI are being separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes.
Entergy's 2006 guidance was established based on a number of assumptions that are detailed below. Among them were 1) normal weather for the Utility, and 2) an average spot electricity price of $83/MWh for the unsold portion of Entergy Nuclear's 2006 generation. During the first quarter, weather was milder than normal, resulting in lower electricity usage by customers across the Entergy system. Similarly, in part due to milder weather, spot electricity prices averaged $63/MWh during the quarter. Published market prices for the remainder of 2006 now average $70/MWh. While both of these examples, if viewed individually would reduce earnings guidance, Entergy continues to believe its current guidance range is appropriate given the number of months remaining in the year, the potential for other variables to materialize more favorably than projected in guidance, and the volatility in power prices.
Guidance ranges for 2006 are detailed in Table 7 and are based on the following key assumptions which are unchanged from those identified when guidance was initially issued:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Sales growth of approximately 4%, weighted in the months September - December 2006 due to absence of 2005 hurricane effect
Non-storm related rate actions, including carryover effects of 2005 rate actions and 2006 rate action for Attala
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, including effects of inflation, benefits costs, supply plan, and Independent Coordinator of Transmission implementation along with the absence of 2005 offsets relating to storm restoration work
Increased interest expense from higher financing requirements
Entergy Nuclear
35 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 (spring 2006) and FitzPatrick (fall 2006) and implementation of 95 MW uprate at Vermont Yankee at end of first quarter 2006
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market
$41/MWh average energy contract price, average price of $83/MWh for unsold energy based on published market prices in January 2006
$20.50/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting inflation and higher benefits expense; $19/MWh production cost
Increased interest expense due to increased collateral requirements driven by higher market prices
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Reduced sales of emissions allowances
Increased year over year losses
Special Items
Receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of EKLP and recognition of gain contingency
Absence of 2005 results from discontinued competitive retail operation (a 2006 estimate is not presented as ultimate amount depends on timing of sale)
Share Repurchase Program
The share repurchase program remains suspended following the hurricanes through the end of 2006, resulting in end of year fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 213 million
The above assumptions assume no regulatory disallowances are ordered by retail regulators for $1.5 billion storm restoration costs ($0.8 billion capital, $0.7 billion regulatory assets). Any such disallowances would be shown as special items.
Earnings guidance details are provided in Table 7. This table demonstrates why 2006 results are expected to differ from 2005 based on the quantification of assumptions described above. For presentation simplicity purposes, year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2005 actuals to compute the 2006 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings excluding Entergy New Orleans.
Earnings guidance should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales levels is expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2006 for Utility, Parent & Other due to normal growth in customer usage and the recovery of some portion of load impacted by hurricanes. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2006, given the size of EN's unsold position. In 2005, Entergy modified its contracting strategy to provide the flexibility to retain a larger unsold position. This modification provides EN the opportunity to capture higher spot market prices. Increased volatility of expected results was considered as well. Estimated annual impacts shown in the Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Based on 2005 average fully diluted shares of approximately 214 million.
V.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy continues to focus on recovery and stability in the aftermath of hurricanes that severely affected its business operations in August and September of 2005. While these storms created issues that may affect near-term financial performance, the company's long-term aspirations remain in tact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of 5-6%, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality over the long-term. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination of factors. These include, but are not limited to, intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm-related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory that have been severely damaged and further impacted by new flood maps and more stringent building codes, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deployment in investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2006 through 2008 excluding Entergy New Orleans. Entergy expects to have $2.3 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Net cash flow provided by operating activities shown in the table includes the recovery of fuel costs deferred in periods prior to 2006, and revenue enhancement realized at Entergy Nuclear by capturing opportunities through favorable market pricing. Cash flows from other storm recovery initiatives, such as insurance, regulatory rate relief, or funding through community development block grants, are not included because they are too preliminary or uncertain at this time. Sources of cash also include debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. The amount of addition al debt could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Uses of cash shown on the table reflect current estimates of storm restoration spending and share repurchases based on resumption of the $1.5 billion share repurchase program approved in 2004. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or material new investment opportunities.
Appendix E provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendix F includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
 
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy New Orleans, Inc.'s filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analyses and details on special items that relate to the current quarter.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides a summary schedule of Entergy Corporation's debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix H provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on the petition filed by Entergy New Orleans, Inc. for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as well as related activities subsequent to the initial filing.
Bankruptcy Filing
To protect its franchise agreement with the City and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Important decisions were rendered by the bankruptcy court in December 2005 when the court authorized the debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing (described below), approved the priming lien for DIP financing, and ordered that use of insurance proceeds would be determined by ENOI. Numerous motions have been filed with additional motions expected as the bankruptcy proceeding continues. The exclusivity period for filing a final plan of reorganization by ENOI was extended for a second time by the Bankruptcy court and is currently August 21, 2006, with solicitation of acceptances of the plan to be completed by October 18, 2006. ENOI must appear at status conferences on June 26, 2006 and Ju ly 26, 2006 to provide progress reports to the Bankruptcy court on the restructuring plan. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding go to
www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx
.
Debtor-in-Possession Financing
On September 26, 2005, ENOI, as borrower, and Entergy Corporation, as lender, entered into the DIP credit agreement, a debtor-in-possession credit facility to provide funding to ENOI during its business restoration efforts. On December 9, 2005, the bankruptcy court issued its final order approving the DIP Credit Agreement. The indenture trustee of ENOI's first mortgage bonds appealed the final order. Subsequent to the indenture trustee filing its notice of appeal, ENOI, Entergy Corporation, and the indenture trustee filed with the bankruptcy court a motion to approve a settlement among the parties. On March 29, 2006, the bankruptcy court approved the settlement, and the indenture trustee dismissed its appeal. The facility enables ENOI to request funding from Entergy Corporation, but the decision to lend money is at the sole discretion of Entergy Corporation.
Accounting
Entergy owns 100 percent of the common stock of ENOI and has, subject to the rules and requirements of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, continued to supply operating management to ENOI. However, uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings caused Entergy to de-consolidate ENOI for financial reporting purposes beginning in third quarter 2005 with ENOI's financial results being recorded under the equity method of accounting. Under this methodology, earnings from ENOI are now reflected in Entergy's income statement as equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  Because Entergy owns all of the common stock of ENOI, this change has not impacted the amount of net income Entergy has recorded in the current period or any historical period but has resulted in ENOI's net income being presented in one line item rather than included in each individual income statement line item presented. Various line items of Entergy's conso lidated balance sheet and cash flow statement have been revised to reflect the impact of de-consolidating ENOI. In addition, the deconsolidation of ENOI's results is retroactive to January 1, 2005 and Entergy's comparative results now reflect ENOI results under the equity method of accounting.
 
Appendix B-1 provides details of first quarter 2006 vs. 2005 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Net revenue increased due to higher margins on wholesale sales contracts and constructive rate actions during 2005. In addition, net revenue also increased from an adjustment of fuel clause recoveries at Entergy Gulf States-LA partially offset by the energy cost recovery true-up at Entergy Arkansas in first quarter 2005. The overall increase in net revenue was partially offset by milder-than-normal weather during the current period.
Net revenue increased due to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear as a result of higher pricing and higher generation output due to fewer outage days and power uprates.
Interest expense and other charges increased due primarily to higher borrowings under credit lines and long-term debt primarily in connection with financing of significant storm restoration costs resulting from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
Income taxes-other increased due primarily to variances in tax reserves based on existing tax liabilities.
Other income (deductions) decreased in the year-to-date period due to the absence of an adjustment in the decommissioning liability made in first quarter 2005 at Entergy Nuclear.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased due primarily to no refueling outage days at Entergy Nuclear in the current period. Operating and maintenance expense during refueling outages is defe rred and amortized over the subsequent 18-24 months. In addition, the Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business experienced higher operating costs as well during the current period due to the return to service of its Harrison County plant.
 
Appendix B-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
(m) ENOI results for first quarter 2005 are included in operational earnings.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix H-1.
 
Data has not been restated for the de-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in third quarter 2005, retroactive to first quarter 2005.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2006 through 2008 includes $3.6 billion for investment; more than $2.2 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.1 billion is associated with specific investments such as transmission upgrades, dry cask storage and license renewal projects at certain nuclear sites, and other investments, such as the purchase of the Attala plant, that support the utility's ability to meet load growth.
Entergy New Orleans' planned capital expenditures for the years 2006-2008 total $165 million, including $72 million of storm capital.
 
Appendix F provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
 
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices H-1 and H-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
The Entergy Investor Relations team has returned to its offices in New Orleans and can be contacted as follows:
 
Michele Lopiccolo                Paul LaRosa                        Paula Waters Phone 504/576-4879            Phone 504/576-4878             Phone 504/576- 4380
 
Investor Relations Fax 504/576-2897
 
 
 
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K as well as the following factors: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to Entergy's System Agreement, Entergy's utility supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, and Entergy's ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contracts, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establishment of a regional transmission organ ization that includes Entergy's utility service territory, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from the new federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes and othe r storms and disasters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Entergy
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported first quarter 2006 as-reported earnings of $193.6 million, or 92 cents per share, compared with $172.0 million, or 79 cents per share, for first quarter 2005. On an operational basis, Entergy's first quarter 2006 earnings were $190.2 million, or 90 cents per share, compared with $173.4 million, or 80 cents per share, in first quarter 2005.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other achieved higher earnings while still experiencing the effects of two hurricanes that reduced retail sales and pushed interest expense higher as borrowings increased to fund storm costs.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher generation due to fewer outage days and uprates, as well as higher energy pricing.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had lower results due to the absence of any sales of SO allowances in the current period.
2
"Entergy continues to work to rebound from the devastation of last year's storms," said . "Constructive progress is evident across a range of operational and regulatory efforts, with more work to be done as we stay focused on delivering high quality service to our customers and strengthening our financial position and results of operations."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Two of Entergy's operating utilities received approval for interim storm cost recovery while provisions of recently enacted Gulf Opportunity Zone tax legislation resulted in a significant cash tax refund in connection with accelerated deductions for storm expenses.
Entergy received Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval for its Independent Coordinator of Transmission proposal.
Entergy Nuclear received approval for a 20 percent uprate at Vermont Yankee and advanced in the process of increasing generation output at the plant.
In first quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported earnings of $113.2 million, or 54 cents per share, compared to earnings of $91.8 million, or 42 cents per share, in first quarter 2005. On an operational basis, earnings were $109.8 million, or 52 cents per share, in first quarter 2006, compared to $93.1 million, or 43 cents per share, in first quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect two cents per share in special items. The special items are comprised of earnings at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. of $5.6 million, or three cents per share, and an operating loss of $2.2 million, or one cent per share, from the competitive retail business in Texas. Entergy sold its customer base in the retail business in April 2006.
Entergy New Orleans' results for first quarter 2006 are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings but are excluded from operational earnings. For first quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other results include Entergy New Orleans on both as-reported and operational bases. Also, Entergy New Orleans is de-consolidated for both first quarter 2006 and first quarter 2005 reporting purposes due to uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the Entergy New Orleans bankruptcy proceedings. (On September 23, 2005 Entergy New Orleans filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to protect its franchise agreement with the City of New Orleans and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.) Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations that follow exclude the revenues and expenses of Entergy New Orleans.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in first quarter 2006, exclusive of Entergy New Orleans, reflect rate actions over the past year, including the addition of Perryville and Attala, two highly efficient gas-fired units in retail rates, as well as improved margins on wholesale sales contracts and accretion from Entergy's share repurchase program. Partially offsetting the above factors were higher operation and maintenance expense, higher interest expense realized in connection with borrowings to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and milder-than-normal weather. The higher operation and maintenance expense resulted from increased storm reserves and costs associated with Perryville and Attala. Also contributing to the increase in operation and maintenance expense was higher nuclear expense associated with an unplanned outage.
Entergy New Orleans' results for first quarter 2006 reflect earnings of three cents per share. In first quarter 2005, Entergy New Orleans also earned three cents per share. First quarter 2005 results reflect a normal operating environment for Entergy New Orleans where results were primarily driven by margin on sales to retail customers. However, as a result of Hurricane Katrina, and the subsequent filing by Entergy New Orleans for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, first quarter 2006 results reflect the ongoing impact of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by Entergy New Orleans specific to its continuing effort to recover financially from this storm. Results for the current period include significantly lower revenues from customers due to extended outages and customer losses partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense due to the continued focus on storm restoration rather than routine operating activities and ongoing cost reduction initiatives. In addi tion, net wholesale revenue is materially higher due to an increase in energy available for sales for resale due to the lower retail usage caused by Hurricane Katrina. Finally, current results reflect lower interest expense due to the cessation of interest accruals on first mortgage bonds as a result of an agreement among bondholders and Entergy New Orleans in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding.
Excluding Entergy New Orleans, megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in first quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up two percent, compared to first quarter 2005. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up two percent, compared to the prior quarter. Industrial sales experienced a decrease of four percent in first quarter 2006, compared to the same period a year ago.
The decline in the industrial sector in first quarter 2006 reflects the storm-related impact that was concentrated in the chemical and refining industries which currently make up more than 50 percent of Entergy's industrial sales. Two large industrial customers remain out of service, with one expected to return shortly and the other by the end of second quarter 2006. High gas prices have placed some strain on the chemical and paper sectors, but large scale disruptions have not been experienced to date.
Entergy Nuclear earned 81.5 million, or 39 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2006. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $78.0 million, or 36 cents per share, in first quarter 2005. In first quarter 2006 Entergy Nuclear had higher generation resulting from the combination of uprates and no planned refueling outage days compared to 20 days in first quarter 2005. In addition, higher pricing contributed to the improved results at Entergy Nuclear. Partially offsetting the contributions of higher generation and improved pricing was higher operation and maintenance expense due to the absence of refueling outages in the current period. Operation and maintenance expense decreases during outages as resources working the outage are deferred and subsequently amortized into expense over the next 18 to 24 months.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business realized a loss of $1.1 million, or one cent per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2006. As-reported and operational results in first quarter 2005 were $2.3 million, or one cent per share, and included the sale of SO allowances while there were no such sales in the current period.
2
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share and operational earnings guidance of $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Earnings guidance ranges exclude Entergy New Orleans given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works toward filing a plan of reorganization. During 2006, actual results for Entergy New Orleans are being separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes.
Entergy continues to focus on recovery and stability in the aftermath of hurricanes that severely affected its business operations in August and September of 2005. While these storms created issues that may affect near-term financial performance, the company's long-term aspirations remain in tact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of five to six percent, to achieve a nine percent return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality over the long-term. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination of factors. These include, but are not limited to, intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm-related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory that have been severely damaged and further impacted by new flood maps and more stringent building codes, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deployment in investments, s hare repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to the risk factors discussed in our Form 10-K as well as the foll owing factors: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to Entergy's System Agreement, Entergy's utility supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, and Entergy's ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contracts, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a poi nt of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establishment of a regional transmission organization that inc ludes Entergy's utility service territory, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from the new federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes and other storms and dis asters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases and the related presentation differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to inv estors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions, planned maintenance capital expenditures, and estimated preferred dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availabili ty of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Earnings Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


