FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20060131070458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On January 31, 2006, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases"), which are incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Tuesday, January 31, 2006 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits listed below, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 7.01 pursuant to Regulation FD.
On January 31, 2006, Entergy issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Entergy's senior management team will host an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT, Tuesday, January 31, 2006 The call and the slide presentation, attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com/webcasts.
.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: January 31, 2006
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
January 31, 2006
CLINTON, MISS - Entergy Corporation reported fourth quarter 2005 earnings of $0.43 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.59 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Fourth Quarter 2005
Utility, Parent & Other continued to be negatively affected by two hurricanes resulting in lower sales primarily in the industrial sector partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy Nuclear results increased as the result of higher generation due to uprates and fewer planned outages during the current quarter, higher pricing, lower operation and maintenance expense and accretion.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business had improved results due to the sale of SO
2
allowances.
"The post-hurricane rebuilding process continues with marked progress being advanced at various levels," said . "Entergy continues to conduct its business with the goal of providing a safe environment for our employees, a high level of service to our customers, and top quartile returns to our shareholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Other Quarterly Highlights:
Entergy completed key elements of its financing plan including the issuance of $0.5 billion of new debt financing, the syndication of a new $1.5 billion corporate revolver and the successful marketing of $0.5 billion of equity units.
Filings for recovery of storm costs were made in two jurisdictions with updated information on storm costs supplied in a third jurisdiction.
Entergy Nuclear successfully completed the refueling outage at Vermont Yankee in 19 days.
New contracts signed at Entergy Nuclear raised the average sold price for its energy by $3-$7 per megawatt hour for the years 2007-2009.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CST on Tuesday, January 31, 2006, with access by telephone, 719-457-2621, confirmation code 3816450. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for the following seven days by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 3816450. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at
www.entergy.com
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for fourth quarter and year-to-date 2005 versus 2004, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in fourth quarter 2005 was $361 million compared to $1.2 billion generated in fourth quarter 2004. The decrease was due primarily to:
The absence in the current period of $503 million in dividends paid by Entergy-Koch, LP following the sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline.
Storm spending and lost margins at Utility, Parent & Other due to storms amounting to $309 million.
Changes in Utility, Parent & Other working capital of approximately $112 million.
The above reductions in net cash flow provided by operating activities were partially offset by higher revenue and lower refueling outage spending at Entergy Nuclear resulting in additional cash flow of $110 million.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
(a) Fourth quarter 2005 and full year 2005 reflect the deconsolidation of Entergy New Orleans; fourth quarter 2004 and full year 2004 have not been revised to reflect the deconsolidation of Entergy New Orleans.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In fourth quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other had no earnings on an as-reported basis and $0.16 per share on an operational basis compared to $0.36 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.29 per share in operational earnings in fourth quarter 2004. As-reported 2005 earnings reflect a $(0.16) per share special item resulting from the planned sale of the competitive retail business in Texas, comprised of a $(0.12) impairment reserve and $(0.04) per share operating loss in this non-core business, with these amounts being reflected as discontinued operations in the financial statements.
Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) results for the quarter are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported and operational earnings. However, ENOI is de-consolidated for fourth quarter 2005 reporting purposes as explained in Appendix A of this release. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations that follow exclude the revenues and expenses of ENOI. Earnings in fourth quarter 2005, exclusive of ENOI, reflect:
Hurricane related outages which were extended due to significant customer property damage and longer lead times for restoration, both of which reduced overall customer usage and revenues.
Materially lower industrial usage, particularly in chemical and refining sectors, due to industry concentration along the hurricane-stricken gulf coast.
Lower operation and maintenance expense due to timing differences in spending anticipated in late 2005, and to a lesser extent, resources normally dedicated to operation and maintenance tasks being shifted to storm restoration work.
ENOI results for fourth quarter 2005 reflect a loss of $(0.08) per share, compared to a loss of $(0.02) per share one year ago. The decrease, due to outages caused by Hurricane Katrina, reflects $44 million of lower net revenue compared to one year ago with reduced operation and maintenance expense and lower interest expense partially offsetting the impact of lower revenues.
 
Electricity usage excluding ENOI, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in fourth quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down 2 percent compared to fourth quarter 2004.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down 4 percent.
Industrial sales, after adjusting for the planned loss of one customer to cogeneration, experienced a decrease of more than 12 percent in fourth quarter 2005 compared to the same period a year ago.
Weather-adjusted sales usage was lower in the current period due primarily to customer outages in all customer classes caused by two major hurricanes during third quarter 2005. The significant decline in the industrial sector in fourth quarter reflects the storm-related impact that was concentrated in the chemical and refining sectors which made up more than 50 percent of Entergy's industrial sales in 2005. One large chemical customer in Louisiana will not return to service while three others affected by the storms will remain out of service in the near-term. High gas prices have placed some strain on the chemical and paper sectors, but large scale disruptions have not been experienced to date.
For the year 2005, Utility, Parent & Other earned $2.82 per share on an as-reported basis, compared with $2.86 per share for 2004. Operational earnings in 2005 were $3.03 per share compared to $2.79 per share for 2004. The higher operational earnings in 2005 were due primarily to warmer-than-normal weather and the impact of accretion, both of which offset the negative effects of the storms on Utility, Parent & Other results.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Energy Commodity Services. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward as of the end of the fourth quarter 2005.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 91%, 81%, and 57% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $41, $45 and $49, for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Energy Commodity Services has contracted for 25%, 23% and 26% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $26, $28 and $28, for the same periods.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear (EN) earned $0.37 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2005, compared to $0.22 in fourth quarter 2004. In fourth quarter 2005 EN had higher generation resulting from uprates, one planned refueling outage compared to two in fourth quarter 2004, and higher contract pricing. In addition, operation and maintenance expense decreased quarter to quarter due primarily to timing. Also, accretion impacted EN's earnings during the current period.
For the year 2005, Entergy Nuclear earned $1.32 per share on both an as-reported and operational bases, compared with $1.06 per share for 2004. The increase in 2005 earnings was due primarily to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and higher generation due to fewer planned and unplanned outage days, and accretion.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of EN's operational performance measures.
(d) The planned refueling outage at FitzPatrick began in September 2004 and was completed in fourth quarter 2004 in a total of 30 days.
Energy Commodity Services
Fourth quarter 2005 results for Energy Commodity Services (ECS) include only earnings from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. ECS as-reported results in fourth quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP (EKLP).
As-reported results for ECS in fourth quarter 2005 were $0.06 per share compared to $0.10 per share in fourth quarter 2004. As-reported results in the current period reflect the absence of a $(0.15) loss in fourth quarter 2004 incurred by EKLP. The trading and pipeline businesses of EKLP were sold in late 2004. Operational results for ECS were also $0.06 per share in fourth quarter 2005 compared to a loss of $(0.01) per share on an operational basis one year ago. The earnings in the current period reflect the sale of SO
2
allowances during fourth quarter.
For the year 2005, ECS earned $0.05 per share on both as-reported and operational bases, compared with $0.01 per share in as-reported earnings and an operational loss of $(0.05) per share in 2004. The higher operational results in 2005 were due primarily to the sales of SO
2
allowances at various times during the year.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is initiating as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share; 2006 operational earnings guidance is $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Earnings guidance ranges exclude Entergy New Orleans given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works toward emerging from bankruptcy. During 2006, actual results for Entergy New Orleans will be separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes.
Guidance ranges for 2006 are detailed in Table 7 and are based on the following key assumptions:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Sales growth of approximately 4%, weighted in the months September - December 2006 due to absence of 2005 hurricane effect
Non-storm related rate actions, including carryover effects of 2005 rate actions and 2006 rate action for Attala
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, including effects of inflation, benefits costs, supply plan, and Independent Coordinator of Transmission implementation along with the absence of 2005 offsets relating to storm restoration work
Increased interest expense from higher financing requirements
Entergy Nuclear
35 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 (spring 2006) and FitzPatrick (fall 2006) and implementation of 95 MW uprate at Vermont Yankee at end of first quarter 2006
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market
$41/MWh average energy contract price, average price of $83/MWh for unsold energy based on published market prices in January 2006
$20.50/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting inflation and higher benefits expense; $19/MWh production cost
Increased interest expense due to increased collateral requirements driven by higher market prices
Increased depreciation and other expenses
 
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Reduced sales of emissions allowances
Increased year over year losses from non-nuclear wholesale assets
Special Items
Receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of EKLP and recognition of gain contingency
Absence of 2005 results from discontinued competitive retail operation (a 2006 estimate is not presented as ultimate amount depends on timing of sale)
Share Repurchase Program
The share repurchase program remains suspended following the hurricanes through the end of 2006, resulting in end of year fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 213 million
The above assumptions assume no regulatory disallowances are ordered by retail regulators for $1.5 billion storm restoration costs ($0.8 billion capital, $0.7 billion regulatory assets). Any such disallowances would be shown as special items.
Earnings guidance details are provided in Table 7. This table demonstrates how 2006 results are expected to differ from 2005 based on the quantification of assumptions described above. For presentation simplicity purposes, year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2005 actuals to compute the 2006 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings excluding Entergy New Orleans.
Earnings guidance should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales growth is expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2006 for Utility, Parent & Other due to normal growth in customer usage and the recovery of some portion of load impacted by hurricanes. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2006, given the size of EN's unsold position. In 2005, Entergy modified its contracting strategy to provide the flexibility to retain a larger unsold position. This modification provides EN the opportunity to capture higher spot market prices while also increasing volatility of expected results. Estimated annual impacts shown in the Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Based on 2005 average fully diluted shares of approximately 214 million.
V.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy continues to focus on resolving challenges and uncertainties brought on by the hurricanes that severely affected its business operations in August and September of 2005. While these issues may affect near-term financial performance, the company's long-term aspirations remain in tact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of 5-6%, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality over the long-term. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination of factors which include but are not limited to intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm-related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deployment in investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2006 through 2008 excluding Entergy New Orleans. Entergy expects to have $2.3 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Net cash flow provided by operating activities shown in the table includes the recovery of fuel costs deferred in periods prior to 2006, and revenue enhancement realized at Entergy Nuclear by capturing opportunities through favorable market pricing. Cash flows from other storm recovery initiatives, such as insurance, regulatory rate relief, or federal relief, are not included because they are not known at this time. Sources of cash also include debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a debt ratio of 50% or less. The amount of additional debt could vary depending upon the type of new investmen t and the credit market environment. Uses of cash shown on the table reflect current estimates of storm restoration spending and share repurchases based on resumption of the $1.5 billion share repurchase program approved in 2004. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or material new investment opportunities.
Appendix E provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendices F-1 and F-2 include summarized schedules of financing authority and debt maturities, respectively.
 
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy New Orleans, Inc.'s filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analyses and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides a summary of Entergy Corporation's financing authority and that of its operating subsidiaries as well as a summary schedule of debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are use d in this release.
Appendix H provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on the petition filed by Entergy New Orleans, Inc. for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as well as related activities subsequent to the initial filing.
Bankruptcy Filing
To protect its customers and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Important decisions were rendered by the bankruptcy court on December 7, 2005 when the court authorized the debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing (described below), approved the priming lien for DIP financing, and ordered that use of insurance proceeds would be determined by ENOI. Numerous motions have been filed with additional motions expected as the bankruptcy proceeding continues. The exclusivity period for filing a final plan of reorganization by ENOI was originally established by the Bankruptcy court as January 23, 2006, but has been extended to April 21, 2006, with solicitation of acceptances of the plan to be completed by June 20. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding go to
www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx
.
Debtor-in-Possession Financing
Simultaneously with the filing on September 23, 2005, ENOI filed a motion with the Court for "debtor-in-possession" (DIP) financing that contemplated Entergy Corporation making loans up to $200 million to ENOI to address ENOI's current liquidity crisis. These funds were requested to enable ENOI to meet its near-term obligations, including employee wages and benefits, payments under power purchase and gas supply agreements, and its existing efforts to repair and restore the facilities needed to serve its electric and gas customers. On September 26, 2005, the bankruptcy court approved interim DIP financing up to $100 million, and on October 26, 2005 approved ENOI's request for additional interim DIP financing increasing the limit to $200 million. Entergy and ENOI also received approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in December 2005 to increase the interim DIP financing to $200 million. The approvals by the Court and the SEC will allow Entergy Corporat ion to provide additional funding through DIP financing but such funding will be provided by Entergy Corporation at its discretion.
Accounting
Entergy owns 100 percent of the common stock of ENOI and has, subject to the rules and requirements of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, continued to supply operating management to ENOI. However, uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings caused Entergy to de-consolidate ENOI for financial reporting purposes beginning in third quarter 2005 with ENOI's financial results being recorded under the equity method of accounting. Under this methodology, earnings from ENOI are now reflected in Entergy's income statement as equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  Because Entergy owns all of the common stock of ENOI, this change has not impacted the amount of net income Entergy has recorded in the current period or any historical period but has resulted in ENOI's net income being presented in one line item rather than included in each individual income statement line item presented. In addition, various line items of En tergy's consolidated balance sheet and cash flow statement have been revised to reflect the impact of de-consolidating ENOI.
Entergy also noted that events related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and the bankruptcy proceeding for ENOI noted above, among other things, that occur prior to the filing of the 2005 financial statements under Form 10-K, could result in a subsequent event(s) that need to be reflected in the Form 10-K in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This subsequent event(s) might materially change the accounting disclosures and/or the reported income of Entergy and one or more of its operating subsidiaries. Examples of events that might result in subsequent event accounting and disclosure could include a determination as to the permanent loss of certain customers, finalization of insurance proceeds, potential regulatory outcomes and/or other potential adverse events related to ENOI's filing for bankruptcy protection, among other things.
 
Appendix B-1 and B-2 provide details of fourth quarter and year-to-date 2005 vs. 2004 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Other income (deductions) increased in fourth quarter 2005 and on a year-to-date basis due primarily to the absence in 2005 of losses from Entergy-Koch, LP $(0.15) for the quarter and $(0.22) year to date. Also, the sale of SO2 allowances at the non-nuclear wholesale assets business increased other income in both periods of 2005.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased due primarily to timing and resources deployed to storm restoration projects
.
Asset impairment reflects the impairment reserve recorded in connection with the planned sale of the competitive retail business.
Asset impairment reflects the absence of an impairment reserve recorded for the Warren Plant in fourth quarter 2004.
Net revenue decreased due primarily to lower usage across all customer sectors during fourth quarter 2005 compared to one year ago. Storms reduced usage particularly in the industrial sector with warmer-than-normal weather early in the quarter partially offsetting this decline. The year-to-date increase in net revenues is due primarily to warmer-than-normal weather and higher unbilled revenues compared to one year ago, both partially offset by lower sales volumes.
Net revenue increased due to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear as a result of higher contract pricing and fewer outages.
Interest expense and other charges increased due primarily to higher borrowings under credit lines.
Income taxes-other increased due primarily to the absence in the current period of tax benefits recorded in fourth quarter 2004 associated with the Entergy-Koch, LP investment.
Income taxes-other increased due primarily to the absence in the current period of tax benefits recorded in fourth quarter 2004 associated with the restructuring of the non-nuclear wholesale assets business.
Share repurchase effect reflects the impact of Entergy's repurchase activity.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased due primarily to lower operating costs at both Entergy Nuclear and the non-nuclear wholesale assets business
.
Other income (deductions) decreased in the year-to-date period due to the absence of a 2004 adjustment recorded to revalue River Bend's decommissioning liability and lower earnings from Entergy New Orleans, partially offset by higher interest income.
Taxes other than income taxes increased due primarily to higher franchise and ad valorem taxes due to higher property assessments and millage rates.
Retail business discontinued operations reflects losses incurred by this business during 2005.
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix H-1.
 
Data has not been restated for the de-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in third quarter 2005.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2006 through 2008 includes $3.6 billion for investment; more than $2.2 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.1 billion is associated with specific investments such as transmission upgrades, dry cask storage and license renewal projects at certain nuclear sites, and other investments, such as the purchase of the Attala plant, that support the utility's ability to meet load growth.
Entergy New Orleans' planned capital expenditures for the years 2006-2008 total $177 million, including $72 million of storm capital.
Appendix F-1 provides details on the financing authority of Entergy Corporation and each of its operating companies at December 31, 2005. Short-term authority may be for secured or unsecured financing and varies by company. Long-term borrowing authority is limited by approvals obtained from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has adopted rules to continue these authorizations for at least 22 months after PUHCA repeal becomes effective on February 8, 2006. Entergy and the operating companies have filed requests with the FERC to increase certain financing authorizations. Further restrictions may be imposed by local regulatory authorities.
Authority granted by local regulator.
Liquidity data for Entergy New Orleans is not included due to its filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U
.S. Bankruptcy Code and the subsequent decision by Entergy to de-consolidate Entergy New Orleans for
financial reporting purposes.
 
Entergy recently put into place major components of a financing plan it announced in November 2005 to source $2.5 billion through a combination of debt and equity units. The plan included 1) increasing the capacity on Entergy Corporation's liquidity revolver by $1.5 billion; 2) issuing $0.5 billion
of equity units; 3) issuing $0.5 billion of new debt at Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States; and 4) providing equity funding in the amount of $300 million from the parent company to Entergy Gulf States.
This financing plan is primarily designed to provide adequate liquidity to Entergy and its subsidiaries while storm restoration cost recovery is pursued. In addition, the plan will ensure adequate liquidity is available to support Entergy Nuclear. Depending on prevailing market prices, this business may be required to provide assurances in the form of corporate guarantees, lines of credit or cash to counterparties to demonstrate their commitments to deliver physical power at previously-established contract prices even if those prices are below market. As of December 31, 2005, Entergy provided approximately $1.6 billion of assurances to various counterparties primarily in the form of corporate guarantees. The assurance requirement associated with Entergy Nuclear is estimated to increase by an amount up to $400 million if gas prices increase $1 per MMBtu across the entire forward curve.
Appendix F-2 provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices H-1 and H-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure. Appendices H-3 through H-9 provide reconciliations of 2004 pro-forma financial statements to 2004 GAAP financial statements due to the deconsolidation of Entergy New Orleans.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and oth er proceedings at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and weather, and uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact, if any, of this proceeding on other Entergy companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

500 Clinton Center Drive Clinton, MS  39056
Entergy
 
News Release
 
Exhibit 99.2
Clinton, Miss. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported fourth quarter 2005 as-reported earnings of $90.2 million, or 43 cents per share, compared with $154.9 million, or 68 cents per share, for fourth quarter 2004. On an operational basis, Entergy's fourth quarter 2005 earnings were $123.7 million, or 59 cents per share, compared with $113.6 million, or 50 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2004.
For the year, Entergy's as-reported earnings were $898.3 million, or $4.19 per share, and operational earnings were $943.1 million, or $4.40 per share. These results compare with as-reported earnings in 2004 of $909.5 million, or $3.93 per share, and operational earnings of $879.5 million, or $3.80 per share.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other continued to be negatively affected by two hurricanes resulting in lower sales primarily in the industrial sector, partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy Nuclear results increased as a result of higher generation due to uprates and fewer planned outages during the current quarter, higher pricing, lower operation and maintenance expense, and accretion.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business had improved results due to the sale of SO allowances.
2
"The post-hurricane rebuilding process continues with marked progress being advanced at various levels," said . "Entergy continues to conduct its business with the goal of providing a safe environment for its employees, a high level of service to our customers, and top-quartile returns to our shareholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chief executive officer
Entergy completed key elements of its financing plan including the issuance of $0.5 billion of new debt financing, the syndication of a new $1.5 billion corporate revolver, and the successful marketing of $0.5 billion of equity units.
Filings for recovery of storm costs were made in Louisiana and Mississippi with updated information on storm costs supplied in Texas.
Entergy Nuclear successfully completed the refueling outage at Vermont Yankee in 19 days.
New contracts signed at Entergy Nuclear raised the average sold price for its energy by $3-$7 per megawatt hour for the years 2007-2009.
In fourth quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other reported an as-reported loss of $0.2 million, or zero cents per share, compared to earnings of $82.3 million, or 36 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2004. On an operational basis, earnings were $33.4 million, or 16 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2005, compared to $65.6 million, or 29 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2004. As-reported 2005 earnings reflect a loss of 16 cents per share resulting from the planned sale of the competitive retail business, comprised of an impairment reserve of 12 cents per share and an operating loss of four cents per share in this non-core business, with these amounts being reflected as discontinued operations in the financial statements.
Entergy New Orleans' results for the quarter are included in Utility, Parent & Other earnings. However, Entergy New Orleans is de-consolidated for fourth quarter 2005 financial reporting purposes due to uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the Entergy New Orleans bankruptcy proceedings. On September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to protect its customers and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.
Earnings in fourth quarter 2005, exclusive of Entergy New Orleans, reflect extended hurricane-related outages due to significant customer property damage which reduced overall customer usage and revenues. Fourth quarter results also reflect materially lower industrial usage, particularly in the chemical and refining sectors, due to industry concentration along the hurricane-stricken Gulf Coast, lower operation and maintenance expense due to timing differences in spending anticipated in late 2005, and to a lesser extent, resources normally dedicated to operation and maintenance tasks being shifted to storm restoration work.
Entergy New Orleans' results for fourth quarter 2005 reflect a loss of eight cents per share, compared to a loss of two cents per share one year ago. The decrease, due to outages caused by Hurricane Katrina, reflects $44 million of lower net revenue compared to one year ago, with reduced operation and maintenance expense and lower interest expense partially offsetting the impact of lower revenues.
Excluding Entergy New Orleans, megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in fourth quarter 2005, on a weather-adjusted basis, were down two percent, compared to fourth quarter 2004. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were down four percent, compared to the prior quarter. Industrial sales, after adjusting for the planned loss of one customer to cogeneration, experienced a decrease of more than 12 percent in fourth quarter 2005, compared to the same period a year ago.
Weather-adjusted sales usage was lower in the current period due primarily to customer outages in all customer classes caused by two major hurricanes during third quarter 2005. The significant decline in the industrial sector in fourth quarter reflects the storm-related impact that was concentrated in the chemical and refining sectors which made up more than 50 percent of Entergy's industrial sales in 2005. High gas prices have placed some strain on the chemical and paper sectors, but large scale disruptions have not been experienced to date.
For the year 2005, Utility, Parent and Other earned $604.2 million, or $2.82 per share, on an as-reported basis, compared with $661.0 million, or $2.86 per share, for 2004. Operational earnings in 2005 were $648.9 million, or $3.03 per share, compared to $644.3 million, or $2.79 per share, for 2004. The higher operational earnings in 2005 were due primarily to warmer-than-normal weather and the impact of accretion, both of which offset the negative effects of the storms on Utility, Parent and Other results.
Entergy Nuclear earned $77.1 million, or 37 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2005. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $49.5 million, or 22 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2004. In fourth quarter 2005 Entergy Nuclear had higher generation resulting from uprates, one planned refueling outage compared to two in fourth quarter 2004, and higher contract pricing. In addition, operation and maintenance expense decreased quarter to quarter due to timing. Also, accretion impacted Entergy Nuclear's earnings during the current period.
For the year 2005, Entergy Nuclear earned $282.6 million, or $1.32 per share, on both as-reported and operational bases, compared with $245.0, or $1.06 per share, for 2004. The increase in 2005 earnings was due primarily to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and higher generation due to fewer planned and unplanned refueling outage days, and accretion.
Fourth quarter 2005 results for Energy Commodity Services include only earnings from Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business. Energy Commodity Services' as-reported results in fourth quarter 2004 included earnings from both the non-nuclear wholesale assets business and Entergy-Koch, LP.
As-reported results for Energy Commodity Services in fourth quarter 2005 were $13.3 million, or six cents per share, compared to $23.1 million, or 10 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2004. As-reported results in the current period reflect the absence of a 15-cent loss in fourth quarter 2004 incurred by Entergy Koch, LP. The trading and pipeline businesses of Entergy Koch, LP were sold in late 2004. Operational results for Energy Commodity Services were also $13.3 million, or six cents per share, in fourth quarter 2005, compared to a loss of $1.6 million, or one cent per share, on an operational basis one year ago. The earnings in the current period reflect the sale of SO allowances during fourth quarter.
2
For the year 2005, Energy Commodity Services earned $11.6 million, or five cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases, compared with $3.5 million, or one cent per share, in as-reported earnings and an operational loss of $9.8 million, or five cents per share, in 2004. The higher operational results in 2005 were due primarily to the sales of SO allowances at various times during the year.
2
Entergy is initiating as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share; 2006 operational earnings guidance is $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Earnings guidance ranges exclude Entergy New Orleans given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works toward emerging from bankruptcy.
Entergy continues to focus on resolving challenges and uncertainties brought on by the hurricanes that severely affected its business operations in August and September of 2005. While these issues may affect near-term financial performance, the company's long-term aspirations remain in tact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of 5-6 percent, to achieve a 9 percent return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality over the long-term. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination of factors which include, but are not limited to, intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm-related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deployment in investments, share repurchases, dividends, or debt retirement.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors include, but are not limited to: resolution of pending and future rate cases and other pro ceedings at local and federal regulatory agencies, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, and the prices and availability of power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, uncertainty regarding establishment of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on oth er attractive terms, changes in utility regulation and in regulation of the nuclear industry, the success of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and weather, and uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact, if any, of this proceeding on other Entergy companies.
 
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3

Exhibit 99.4
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), and the related presentation included as Exhibit 99.3, contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases and the related presentation differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to inves tors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions, planned maintenance capital expenditures, and estimated preferred dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availabili ty of others in the energy sector.
In addition, the Earnings Releases use, and Exhibit 99.1 presents, 2004 pro forma financial statements that have been adjusted to reflect Entergy New Orleans on a deconsolidated basis. This is a non-GAAP presentation that management believes is useful to investors in comparing the company's 2005 operating performance and financial position to the company's 2004 operating performance and financial position.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Earnings Releases and investor presentation are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or simila r names.
 


