FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20061031070735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 31, 2006, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 31, 2006, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: October 31, 2006
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
October 31, 2006
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported third quarter 2006 earnings of $1.83 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.80 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. Entergy had indicated in its preliminary third quarter earnings guidance release of October 17, 2006 that it expected third quarter as-reported earnings of approximately $1.86 per share and operational earnings of approximately $1.83 per share. Entergy's final as-reported and operational earnings are lower due to a charge for a regulatory decision rendered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on October 25, 2006. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2006
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance expense, higher interest expense, lower interest income, and a regulatory charge recorded during the quarter.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue due to higher energy pricing, the effect of the uprate completed at Vermont Yankee, fewer outages, and a reduction in its decommissioning liability.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had higher results due to reduced costs and the return to service of a plant previously idle for repair.
"Over the coming months, we expect to resolve uncertainties and financial stress created by the 2005 hurricanes, while demonstrating that even in the most adverse conditions it is still possible to create value for all stakeholders," said . "For customers that means affordable rates and a high level of service and for shareholders it includes superior performance in returning or investing capital."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Highlights Included:
Entergy Mississippi received $81 million in CDBG funding providing direct relief to Mississippi customers, while the Louisiana Recovery Authority proposed $200 million in CDBG funding for Entergy New Orleans, Inc. to assist customers of that company
Entergy New Orleans, Inc. filed its Plan of Reorganization and reached agreement on a phased-in rate plan, major milestones in its path out of Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 2 completed a record-setting breaker-to-breaker run of 527 days of continuous operation, a first for an Entergy-owned nuclear unit
Entergy Nuclear achieved a 99 percent capacity factor for third quarter 2006
Entergy was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fifth year in a row and the only U.S. utility named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index - - World this year
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, October 31, 2006, with access by telephone, 719-457-2621, confirmation code 4496801. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for the following seven days by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 4496801. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter and year-to-date 2006 versus 2005, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other recorded lower earnings due primarily to higher operation and maintenance expense, higher interest expense, lower interest income, and a regulatory charge in the quarter for a FERC decision rendered on October 25, 2006. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of higher energy pricing, greater generation output, and a reduction in the decommissioning liability. Also, Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had higher results due to reduced costs and the return to service of a plant previously idle for repair.
Detailed earnings variance analyses are included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2006 was $777 million compared to $334 million in third quarter 2005. The increase was due primarily to:
Collections of more than $350 million of deferred fuel balances, lower non-capital storm spending and lower income tax payments at Utility, Parent & Other, partially offset by pension funding payments.
Higher net revenue of approximately $50 million due to higher prices and incremental generation at Entergy Nuclear, partially offset by higher income tax payments.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
 
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In third quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $1.35 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.32 per share on an operational basis compared to $1.35 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.38 on an operational basis in third quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect $0.03 per share in special items and primarily reflect earnings at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) as results from the discontinued competitive retail business in Texas were immaterial. The third quarter 2005 special item of $(0.03) reflected the operating loss from the discontinued competitive retail business in Texas. Entergy sold its customer base in the retail business in April 2006.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2006, excluding ENOI, primarily reflect higher operation and maintenance expense, and higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and lower interest income. In addition, a regulatory charge in connection with a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission decision, issued subsequent to the end of the quarter, also contributed to lower earnings in the current period. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues from sales growth and the effects of constructive rate actions over the past year, and lower income tax expense.
Electricity usage excluding ENOI, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in third quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 1 percent compared to third quarter 2005.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 2 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of 4 percent in third quarter 2006 compared to the same period a year ago.
The increases in the residential segment and the commercial and governmental segment reflect growth primarily at Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Mississippi. Sales for third quarter 2006 in these jurisdictions reflect some recovery from the effect of storms which reduced sales in third quarter of 2005 although the recovery at Entergy Louisiana has been slower than expected. The quarter over quarter increase in the industrial sector also reflects some rebound from the effect of storms in third quarter 2005. However, the recovery in the industrial segment has also been slower than expected and is being hampered by high energy prices, particularly in the chemical sector, as well as lingering storm outages and a mild winter that affected the pipeline sector.
ENOI results for third quarter 2006 are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings but are excluded from operational earnings. For third quarter 2005 Utility, Parent & Other results include ENOI on both as-reported and operational bases. Also, ENOI is de-consolidated for both third quarter 2006 and third quarter 2005 reporting purposes as explained in Appendix A of this release. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations provided above exclude the revenues and expenses of ENOI.
ENOI results for third quarter 2006 reflect earnings of $0.03 per share. In third quarter 2005, ENOI also earned $0.03 per share. Third quarter 2005 results reflect a normal operating environment for ENOI for nearly two months of the quarter, prior to Hurricane Katrina. Subsequent to the hurricane, ENOI experienced significant reductions in operating revenues due to customer losses. Third quarter 2006 results reflect the ongoing effects of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by ENOI specific to its continuing effort to stabilize the company's financial condition. Results for the current period include significantly lower revenues from customers due to extended outages and customer losses partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense due to the continued focus on storm restoration rather than routine operating activities, and ongoing cost reduction initiatives. Current results also reflect lower interest expense due to a reduction in interest accrued on first mortgage bonds. Interest had not been accrued for a year as a result of an agreement among bondholders and ENOI in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. ENOI resumed accruing interest late in third quarter 2006.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
(a) Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward projections.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position, including projections for the pending Palisades acquisition currently estimated to close in second quarter 2007, is 90%, 95%, and 83% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $41, $49 and $53, for the remainder of 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets has contracted for 39%, 29% and 29% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $31, $28 and $27, for the same periods.
 
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.50 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2006, compared to $0.33 in third quarter 2005. The improved results in third quarter 2006 came from a combination of higher pricing, increased generation available due to the Vermont Yankee uprate and fewer outages, and the effect of a reduction in the decommissioning liability. Partially offsetting these contributions was higher operation and maintenance expense due to higher benefits and insurance expense.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of EN's operational performance measures.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business recorded a loss of $(0.02) per share on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2006. As-reported and operational results in third quarter 2005 were a loss of $(0.03) per share. The improved results were primarily attributable to reduced costs and the return to service of the Harrison County unit which had been idle for repairs.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share and operational earnings guidance of $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Earnings guidance ranges exclude ENOI given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works through the process of gaining approval for its Plan of Reorganization filed on October 23, 2006 in connection with its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. During 2006, actual results for ENOI are being separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes.
Entergy's 2006 guidance was initially established in January 2006 based on a number of assumptions as detailed below. Among them was normal weather for the Utility, and a then-current average spot electricity price of $83/MWh for the unsold portion of Entergy Nuclear's 2006 generation. During third quarter, weather was warmer than normal and spot electricity prices averaged $60/MWh. Published market prices for the remainder of 2006 averaged $63/MWh at the end of October. These and other factors can exceed or fall short of guidance mid-point assumptions but when combined, continue to support Entergy's overall guidance range.
Guidance ranges for 2006 are based on the following key assumptions established in January 2006:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Sales growth of approximately 4%, weighted in the months September - December 2006 due to absence of 2005 hurricane effect
Non-storm related rate actions, including carryover effects of 2005 rate actions and 2006 rate action for Attala
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, including effects of inflation, benefits costs, supply plan, and Independent Coordinator of Transmission implementation along with the absence of 2005 offsets relating to storm restoration work
Increased interest expense from higher financing requirements
Entergy Nuclear
35 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 (spring 2006) and FitzPatrick (fall 2006) and implementation of 95 MW uprate at Vermont Yankee at end of first quarter 2006
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market
$41/MWh average energy contract price, average price of $83/MWh for unsold energy based on published market prices in January 2006
$20.50/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting inflation and higher benefits expense; $19/MWh production cost
Increased interest expense due to increased collateral requirements driven by higher market prices
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Reduced sales of emissions allowances
Increased year over year losses
Special Items
Receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of EKLP and recognition of gain contingency
Absence of 2005 results from discontinued competitive retail operation (a 2006 estimate is not presented as ultimate amount depends on timing of sale)
Share Repurchase Program
End of year fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 213 million
The above assumptions assume no regulatory disallowances are ordered by retail regulators for the estimated $1.5 billion storm restoration costs ($0.8 billion capital, $0.7 billion regulatory assets). Any such disallowances would be shown as special items assuming such disallowances are not appealed to the courts or in the case of appeals, are later disallowed by the courts.
Earnings guidance details for 2006 are provided in Table 7. This table demonstrates why 2006 results are expected to differ from 2005 based on the quantification of assumptions described above. To simplify the presentation, year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2005 actuals to compute the 2006 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings excluding Entergy New Orleans.
 
Entergy is initiating 2007 earnings guidance in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share on both an as-reported and operational bases. As is the case for 2006, earnings guidance for 2007 excludes ENOI given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. Also consistent with 2006 earnings guidance, year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2006 guidance mid-point estimates to compute the 2007 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings excluding Entergy New Orleans. 2007 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 8 below. Key assumptions supporting 2007 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of just under 2%
Increased revenue associated with storm and non-storm rate requests, partially offset by declining wholesale revenues, among others
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to effects of wage and other inflation and increased insurance premiums
Increased interest expense primarily from securitization debt and Palisades financing
Entergy Nuclear
Incremental earnings of $0.20 total for Palisades acquisition, assuming second quarter close; $0.13 associated with operations; $0.07 per share associated with the application of GAAP accounting for the PPA (details reflected in following assumptions)
38 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 92% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 3, Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee, all in Spring 2007, and the initial refueling outage at Palisades, in Fall 2007
95% energy sold under existing contracts; 5% sold into the spot market
$49/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published market prices in October 2006
85% capacity sold under existing contracts; 15% sold in spot market
$1.60 per kW per month average capacity-only contract price; $3.00 per kW per month unsold capacity based on published market prices in October 2006
$21.25/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting wag e and other inflation; $20.50/MWh production cost
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased year over year losses due to fewer anticipated opportunities to monetize assets
Special Items
Absence of 2006 receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of EKLP and recognition of gain contingency
Results from discontinued competitive retail business (2006) and ENOI (2006 and 2007) will be reflected when actual results are reported
Share Repurchase Program
End of year fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 206 million
The above assumptions assume no regulatory disallowances are ordered by retail regulators for the estimated $1.5 billion storm restoration costs ($0.8 billion capital, $0.7 billion regulatory assets). Any such disallowances would be shown as special items assuming such disallowances are not appealed to the courts or in the case of appeals, are later disallowed by the courts.
 
Earnings guidance for 2007 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 9. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2007 for Utility, Parent & Other due to normal growth in customer usage. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2007, given the size of EN's unsold position. Estimated annual impacts shown in the Table 9 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Based on 2006average fully diluted shares of approximately 213 million. Entergy Nuclear assumes Palisades acquisition closes in second quarter 2007.
V.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to its owners as measured by total shareholder return. Entergy believes top quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, improving returns on invested capital, maintaining investment grade credit quality and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Table 10 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2007 through 2009 excluding Entergy New Orleans. Entergy expects to have $3.2 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Cash flow from operations includes storm cost recovery anticipated from a combination of insurance, rate relief, and securitization; these amounts are applied consistent with regulatory filings and other agreements reached with governmental agencies under which benefits inure to ratepayers. Sources of cash also include debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining credit quality consistent with BBB credit rating. The amount of additional debt could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Uses of cash shown on the table re flect current estimates of storm restoration spending.
Appendix E provides additional details on planned capital expenditures, and appendix F includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
 
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy New Orleans, Inc.'s filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analyses and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year to date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides a summary schedule of Entergy Corporation's debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix H provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure s used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on the status of the bankruptcy process at Entergy New Orleans, Inc.
Bankruptcy Filing
To ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Plan of Reorganization
ENOI filed a Plan of Reorganization (POR) with the bankruptcy court on October 23, 2006 and believes the filing is a significant step forward for all parties involved in the bankruptcy proceeding with a plan that is workable, fair and in the public interest. The POR provides full compensation for all of ENOI's creditors and allows ENOI to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy assuming the plan is supported by creditors and the various conditions included in the plan, as detailed below, are met. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding including the POR, go to
www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx
.
Conditions precedent that must be satisfied for the POR to become effective include:
A final Confirmation Order from the bankruptcy court approving the POR
City Council of New Orleans (CCNO) resolution(s) satisfactory to ENOI regarding 06 Formula Rate Plan Gas and Electric filings and Storm Cost Recovery and Storm Reserve riders
Receipt by ENOI of insurance proceeds of at least $250 million or assurance of such receipt, or alternatively, assurance that regulatory mechanisms will be put in place to cover any shortfall
Receipt by ENOI of $200 million in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding and assurance that at a minimum an additional $200 million in CDBG funding will be available for future gas system rebuild or assurance from CCNO that an appropriate rate mechanism is in place to allow ENOI to recover the costs thereof
No Material Adverse Change shall have occurred from and after Confirmation date of the POR
ENOI receives final order from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission authorizing issuance of short-term debt securities under credit agreements, Entergy Money Pool, and unilateral arrangements with Entergy Corporation
Community Development Block Grant Funding
ENOI applied to the Louisiana Recovery Authority (LRA) for funding from CDBG resources made available to Louisiana. On October 12, 2006, the LRA passed a resolution approving funding of $200 million for ENOI. Additional approvals are needed from the full board of the LRA, the governor, the state legislature of Louisiana, and HUD. The approval process is expected to take several months.
ENOI Rate Plan
On October 27, 2006, the City Council of New Orleans approved a settlement agreement with ENOI that calls for a phased-in rate increase and the creation of a $75M storm reserve that positions ENOI to pay for future hurricane damage. Additional information is included in the Regulatory Summary Table in Appendix C.
Accounting
Entergy owns 100 percent of the common stock of ENOI and has, subject to the rules and requirements of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, continued to supply operating management to ENOI. However, uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings caused Entergy to de-consolidate ENOI for financial reporting purposes beginning in third quarter 2005 with ENOI's financial results being recorded under the equity method of accounting. Under this methodology, earnings from ENOI are now reflected in Entergy's income statement as equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  Because Entergy owns all of the common stock of ENOI, this change has not affected the amount of net income Entergy has recorded in the current period or any historical period but has resulted in ENOI's net income being presented in one line item rather than included in each individual income statement line item presented. Various line items of Entergy's conso lidated balance sheet and cash flow statement have been revised to reflect the effects of de-consolidating ENOI. In addition, the deconsolidation of ENOI's results is retroactive to January 1, 2005 and Entergy's comparative results now reflect ENOI results under the equity method of accounting.
Appendix B-1 provides details of third quarter and year-to-date 2006 vs. 2005 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Net revenue increased in third quarter 2006 and on a year-to-date basis compared to those same periods a year ago due primarily to sales growth, the effect of constructive rate actions, and the collection of franchise taxes consistent with the revised regulatory treatment for that item at Entergy Arkansas. In addition, higher unbilled revenue in third quarter 2006 compared to 2005 also contributed to the increase in net revenue.
Net revenue increased in both quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear due to higher pricing and the effect of higher generation due to the Vermont Yankee uprate and fewer outages. In addition, the planned monetization of Entergy's interest in a power development project increased revenues in the current year-to-date period compared to year-to-date 2005.
Other income (deductions) increased due primarily to a reduction in the decommissioning liability at Entergy Nuclear to reflect changes in assumptions on probability of life extension.
Income taxes-other decreased in the quarter due primarily to a benefit recorded at Entergy Arkansas for pension fund payments. The year-to-date period included this benefit and the flow through tax benefit associated with steam generator removal costs at Entergy Arkansas .
Interest expense and other charges increased in both the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher borrowings under credit lines and long-term debt primarily in connection with financing of significant 2005 storm restoration costs.
Taxes other than income taxes increased in both the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to a regulatory requirement that EAI franchise tax collections be recorded in revenue with a corresponding increase in taxes other than income taxes.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased in both the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to resources being deployed to storm restoration rather than routine operation and maintenance expense activities in the quarter and year-to-date periods of 2005, the absence in the current period of proceeds received in third quarter 2005 related to a l ow-level radioactive waste services settlement, higher labor and benefit expenses in the current period, increased costs associated with the addition of the Perryville and Attala plants, and higher storm reserves, as well as higher legal and regulatory costs and higher insurance expense.
Reflects results of retail business operations including the gain on the sale of this business in second quarter 2006.
Share repurchase effect reflects the impact of Entergy's repurchase activity.
Reflects reclassification of certain reserves, which is offset in expense, and higher allowance for funds used during construction.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased due to higher benefits and insurance expenses at Entergy Nuclear as well as increased s pending at the Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business which is offset in revenue.
 
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
(p) ENOI results for the quarterly and year-to-date periods of 2005 are included in operational earnings.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix H-1.
 
Data has not been restated for the de-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in third quarter 2005, retroactive to first quarter 2005.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Appendix E: Planned Capital Expenditures
Entergy's capital plan from 2007 through 2009 anticipates $5.2 billion for investment; roughly $2.5 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. The remaining $2.7 billion is associated with specific investments such as the Palisades acquisition, transmission upgrades, dry cask storage and license renewal projects at certain nuclear sites, environmental compliance spending, NYPA value sharing costs and other investments, such as potential opportunities through Entergy's supply plan initiatives that support the utility's ability to meet load growth. Entergy will provide 2007 through 2009 details on planned capital expenditures in its fourth quarter earnings release and the 2006 Form 10-K.
Appendix F provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices H-1 and H-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
In this release and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy Corporation believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy Corporation undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors (in addition to the risk factors in the For m 10-K as well as others described in the Form 10-Q for Entergy Corporation and its affiliates and in subsequent securities filings) include: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to the Entergy System Agreement, Entergy's utilities' supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's utilities' ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's Uitility and non-utility generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy's utilities must purchase for their customers, and Entergy's utilities' ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contracts, Entergy Corporation's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy Corporation's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy Corporation's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility reg ulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establishment of a regional transmission organization that includes the areas served by Entergy's utilities, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissi ons of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in the areas served by Entergy's utilities, variations in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes and other storms and disasters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's utilities' ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy Corporation's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy Corporation's ability to attract and retai n talented management and directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported third quarter 2006 as-reported earnings of $388.9 million, or $1.83 per share, compared with $350.0 million, or $1.65 per share, for third quarter 2005. On an operational basis, Entergy's third quarter 2006 earnings were $382.6 million, or $1.80 per share, compared with $357.1 million, or $1.68 per share, in third quarter 2005. Entergy had indicated in its preliminary third quarter earnings guidance release of October 17, 2006 that it expected third quarter as-reported earnings of approximately $1.86 per share and operational earnings of approximately $1.83 per share. Entergy's final as-reported and operational earnings are lower due to a charge for a regulatory decision rendered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on October 25, 2006.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance expense, higher interest expense, lower interest income, and a regulatory charge recorded during the quarter.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue due to higher energy pricing, the effect of the uprate completed at Vermont Yankee, fewer outages, and a reduction in its decommissioning liability.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had higher results due to reduced costs and the return to service of a plant previously idle for repair.
"Over the coming months, we expect to resolve uncertainties and financial stress created by the 2005 hurricanes, while demonstrating that even in the most adverse conditions it is still possible to create value for all stakeholders," said . "For customers that means affordable rates and a high level of service and for shareholders it includes superior performance in returning or investing capital."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy Mississippi received $81 million in Community Development Block Grant funding providing direct relief to Mississippi customers, while the Louisiana Recovery Authority proposed $200 million in CDBG funding for Entergy New Orleans to assist customers of that company.
Entergy New Orleans filed its Plan of Reorganization and reached agreement on a phased-in rate plan, major milestones in its path out of Chapter 11 Bankruptcy.
Arkansas Nuclear One Unit 2 completed a record-setting breaker-to-breaker run of 527 days of continuous operation, a first for an Entergy-owned nuclear unit.
Entergy Nuclear achieved a 99 percent capacity factor for third quarter 2006.
Entergy was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fifth year in a row and was the only U.S. utility named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index - - World this year.
In third quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported earnings of $285.9 million, or $1.35 per share, compared to earnings of $285.8 million, or $1.35 per share, in third quarter 2005. On an operational basis, earnings were $279.6 million, or $1.32 per share, in third quarter 2006, compared to $292.9 million, or $1.38 per share, in third quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect three cents per share in special items and primarily reflect earnings at Entergy New Orleans as results from the discontinued competitive retail business in Texas were immaterial. The third quarter 2005 special item of three cents per share reflected the operating loss from the discontinued competitive retail business in Texas. Entergy sold its customer base in the retail business in April 2006.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2006, excluding Entergy New Orleans, primarily reflect higher operation and maintenance expense, higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and lower interest income. In addition, a regulatory charge in connection with a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission decision issued subsequent to the end of the quarter also contributed to lower earnings in the current period. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues from sales growth and the effects of constructive rate actions over the past year, and lower income tax expense.
Excluding Entergy New Orleans, megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in third quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up one percent, compared to third quarter 2005. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up two percent, compared to the prior quarter. Industrial sales experienced an increase of four percent in third quarter 2006, compared to the same period a year ago.
The increases in the residential segment and the commercial and governmental segment reflect growth primarily at Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Mississippi. Sales for third quarter 2006 in these jurisdictions reflect some recovery from the effect of storms which reduced sales in the third quarter of 2005, although the recovery at Entergy Louisiana has been slower than expected. The quarter over quarter increase in the industrial sector also reflects some rebound from the effect of storms in third quarter 2005. However, the recovery in the industrial segment has also been slower than expected and is being hampered by high energy prices, particularly in the chemical sector, as well as lingering storm outages and a mild winter that affected the pipeline sector.
Entergy New Orleans' results for third quarter 2006 are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings but are excluded from operational earnings. For third quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other results include Entergy New Orleans on both as-reported and operational bases. Also, Entergy New Orleans is de-consolidated for both third quarter 2006 and third quarter 2005 reporting purposes due to uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the Entergy New Orleans bankruptcy proceedings.
To ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Entergy New Orleans filed a Plan of Reorganization with the bankruptcy court on October 23, 2006 and believes the filing is a significant step forward for all parties involved in the bankruptcy proceeding with a plan that is workable, fair, and in the public interest. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding, including the Plan of Reorganization, go to www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations provided above exclude the revenues and expenses of Entergy New Orleans.
Entergy New Orleans' results for third quarter 2006 reflect earnings of three cents per share. In third quarter 2005, Entergy New Orleans also earned three cents per share. Third quarter 2005 results reflect a normal operating environment for Entergy New Orleans for nearly two months of the quarter, prior to Hurricane Katrina. Subsequent to the hurricane, Entergy New Orleans experienced significant reductions in operating revenues due to customer losses. Third quarter 2006 results reflect the ongoing effects of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by Entergy New Orleans specific to its continuing effort to stabilize the company's financial condition. Results for the current period include significantly lower revenues from customers due to extended outages and customer losses, partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense due to the continued focus on storm restoration rather than routine operating activities, and ongoing cost reduction initiatives. Current results also reflect lowe r interest expense due to a reduction in interest accrued on first mortgage bonds. Interest had not been accrued for a year as a result of an agreement among bondholders and Entergy New Orleans in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. Entergy New Orleans resumed accruing interest late in third quarter 2006.
Entergy Nuclear earned $106.9 million, or 50 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2006. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $69.3 million, or 33 cents per share, in third quarter 2005. The improved results in third quarter 2006 came from a combination of higher pricing, increased generation available due to the Vermont Yankee uprate and fewer outages, and the effect of a reduction in the decommissioning liability. Partially offsetting these contributions was higher operation and maintenance expense due to higher benefits and insurance expenses.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business recorded a loss of $3.9 million, or two cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2006. As-reported and operational results in third quarter 2005 were a loss of $5.1 million, or three cents per share. The improved results were primarily attributable to reduced costs and the return to service of the Harrison County unit which had been idle for repairs.
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share and operational earnings guidance of $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Entergy is initiating 2007 earnings guidance in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share on both as-reported and operational bases. Earnings guidance ranges exclude Entergy New Orleans given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works through the process of gaining approval for its Plan of Reorganization filed on October 23, 2006 in connection with its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. During 2006, actual results for Entergy New Orleans are being separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the third-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarter and year-to-date results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated October 31, 2006, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy Corporation believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy Corporation undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors (in addition to the risk factors in the Form 10-K as well a s others described in the Form 10-Q for Entergy Corporation and its affiliates and in subsequent securities filings) include: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to the Entergy System Agreement, Entergy's utilities' supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's utilities' ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's Uitility and non-utility generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy's utilities must purchase for the ir customers, and Entergy's utilities' ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contracts, Entergy Corporation's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy Corporation's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy Corporation's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, includi ng the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establishment of a regional transmission organization that includes the areas served by Entergy's utilities, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, n itrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in the areas served by Entergy's utilities, variations in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes and other storms and disasters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's utilities' ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy Corporation's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy Corporation's ability to attract and retain talented manag ement and directors.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items". Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ong oing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions, planned maintenance capital expenditures, and estimated preferred dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availabili ty of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Earnings Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


