FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20060609082225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Complaint filed by Arkansas Public Service Commission
On June 7, 2006, the Arkansas Public Service Commission ("APSC") filed a complaint with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") against Entergy Services, Inc., as the representative of Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") and its operating companies, Entergy Arkansas, Inc., Entergy Gulf States, Inc., Entergy Louisiana, LLC ("ELL"), Entergy Mississippi, Inc. and Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (collectively, the "Operating Companies"), pursuant to Sections 205, 206 and 207 of the Federal Power Act ("FPA"). The APSC states that "The purpose of the complaint is to institute an investigation into the prudence of Entergy's practices affecting the wholesale rates that flow through its System Agreement." The complaint requests, among other things, that the FERC disallow any costs found to be imprudent, with a refund effective date to be set at the earliest possible time. Specific areas of requested investigation include:
The Operating Companies' transmission expansion and planning process, including the construction, or lack thereof, of economic transmission upgrades;
The Operating Companies' wholesale purchasing practices, including the potential savings due to integration of independent power producers into their economic dispatch;
The Operating Companies' alleged failure to retire their aging, inefficient gas- and oil-fired generation; and
The alleged failure to construct or acquire coal capacity for the generation portfolio of ELL.
The complaint also requests that the FERC exercise its authority under Section 207 of the FPA to investigate the adequacy of Entergy's transmission system and direct it to make all necessary upgrades to ensure that its transmission facilities provide reliable, adequate and economic service.
The Operating Companies believe that their conduct with respect to these issues has been prudent and will vigorously defend such conduct. Entergy believes that this complaint is a reiteration of arguments that the APSC previously had made in the System Agreement proceeding, and which the FERC previously had rejected. The FERC's decision in the System Agreement proceeding is currently pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. For additional information regarding the System Agreement and related legal proceedings, see "" in the "" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis in Entergy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.
System Agreement Proceedings
Significant Factors and Known Trends
Press Release issued by Entergy Arkansas, Inc.
On June 7, 2006, Entergy Arkansas, Inc. issued a press release, which is attached as exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation Entergy Arkansas, Inc. Entergy Gulf States, Inc. Entergy Louisiana, LLC Entergy Mississippi, Inc. Entergy New Orleans, Inc. By: Robert D. Sloan Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Dated: June 9, 2006
/s/ Robert D. Sloan

Exhibit 99.1
Entergy Arkansas 425 W. Capital Avenue Little Rock, AR  72201
Little Rock, Ark. - Entergy Arkansas filed notice today that it will seek an increase in base rates. The company's base rates have not increased since 1985. The company also filed an appeal on Tuesday in the state Court of Appeals asking the court to overturn the Arkansas Public Service Commission's suspension of its fuel and purchased energy rider to allow it to collect money it spent on fuel and purchased power in 2005.
"In August we will file to increase base rates," said Steve Strickland, Entergy Arkansas' vice president of regulatory affairs. "The Cost of Service Study the Commission ordered us to file today shows that current base rates produce annual revenues approximately $148 million less than our cost and our projected costs going forward."
Strickland added that the rate case will be based on a new Cost of Service Study, so the amount of increase the company requests could change.
The APSC directed Entergy Arkansas to provide a cost of service study in an order issued on April 7. A cost of service study identifies the typical, annual cost of operating a utility and is used by the APSC to set a utility's base rates.
In a separate action, Entergy Arkansas asked the state Court of Appeals to overturn a Commission decision to suspend an increase in the fuel and purchased power rate that would recover costs for fuel and purchased energy that the company spent in 2005 to provide electricity to its customers.
On March 31, the Commission issued an order that suspended Entergy Arkansas' proposed Fuel and Purchased Power increase that was scheduled to become effective in April for a period of 12 months. The new rate would have increased bills for typical Entergy Arkansas residential customers using 1,000 kilowatt hours a month by approximately $9.27 per month, or 9.9 percent. An Entergy Arkansas residential customer using 1,000 kilowatt hours of electricity per month is currently paying $93.50 per month on average. The adjustment would have increased that amount to $102.77 - - nearly equal to what customers were paying in 1992.
With no timetable from the APSC for resolving this issue, the company had no choice but to challenge the APSC's order in the state court of appeals in an effort to recover its 2005 Fuel and Purchased Power costs.
"Other electric utility companies in Arkansas were allowed to increase their fuel recovery at similar levels that Entergy was denied," Strickland said. "The APSC Staff conducted a thorough review of our fuel and purchased energy costs and recommended the increase be allowed to go into effect."
The Commission's action delaying recovery of the fuel and purchased power costs will cause customers to pay significant interest charges -- already amounting to more than $4 million in just a two-month delay. Company officials estimate that a one-year delay in recovery would increase carrying costs more than $25 million.
"Nobody wants to pay higher energy costs, but our actions are intended to minimize the fuel and purchased energy cost that our customers pay," Strickland said. "This is power and fuel that Entergy has already bought on behalf of its customers, and it has already been used. We want to get this reimbursement completed as soon as possible so our customers will not be faced with a pancaking effect in 2007 when we expect other components of Entergy Arkansas bills to increase. Allowing the new fee to go into effect as soon as possible will minimize negative impact on customers in 2007."
Entergy makes no profit on reimbursement for fuel and purchased power - which comprises about 20 percent of a typical residential bill.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.


