FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20060808074332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 8, 2006, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 8, 2006, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: August 8, 2006
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
August 8, 2006
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported second quarter 2006 earnings of $1.33 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.22 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Second Quarter 2006
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to lower unbilled revenue and higher interest expense.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue due to higher energy pricing and the effect of the uprate completed at Vermont Yankee.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had higher results due to planned monetization of its ownership interest in a power development project.
"Significant progress has been achieved in initiatives aimed at both recovering from the effects of last year's storms and positioning Entergy to be fully prepared for future challenges," said . "Actions consistent with our regulatory compacts are being taken and we continue to aggressively pursue Community Development Block Grants and the securitization of restoration costs to mitigate the storms' effects on our customers' bills. All the while, we remain focused on delivering reliable service, growing our nuclear business, and creating value for our shareholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Other Highlights:
Entergy Nuclear reached an agreement for the purchase of the Palisades nuclear energy plant.
Legislation supporting the securitization of storm costs was approved in Louisiana and Texas.
Entergy Mississippi received regulatory approval for recovery of storm costs.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT on Tuesday, August 8, 2006, with access by telephone, 719-457-2621, confirmation code 6479515. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for the following seven days by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 6479515. The replay will also be available on Entergy's web site at www.entergy.com.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter and year-to-date 2006 versus 2005, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other recorded lower earnings due primarily to reduced unbilled revenues while Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher energy pricing and higher generation. Also, Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business had higher results due to the planned monetization of Entergy's ownership interest in a power development project.
Detailed earnings variance analyses are included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2006 was $468 million compared to $276 million in second quarter 2005. The increase was due primarily to:
Collections of nearly $220 million of deferred fuel balances at Utility, Parent & Other and the absence of $90 million of rate refunds distributed in second quarter 2005 pursuant to a regulatory settlement in Louisiana, partially offset by non-capital storm spending and income tax refunds distributed within the Entergy system.
Higher net revenue of approximately $25 million due to higher prices and incremental generation at Entergy Nuclear and receipt of income tax refunds distributed within the Entergy system.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
 
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In second quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $1.00 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.89 per share on an operational basis compared to $1.05 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.06 on an operational basis in second quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect $0.11 per share in special items, including earnings at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) of $0.05 per share. Both second quarter 2006 and 2005 special items include the operating loss from the competitive retail business in Texas, which was $(0.02) per share in the current period and $(0.01) per share in second quarter 2005. Entergy sold its customer base in the retail business in April 2006 and special items for second quarter 2006 include the gain on that sale in the amount of $0.08 per share.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2006, excluding ENOI, primarily reflect lower unbilled revenues compared to second quarter 2005 and higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Partially offsetting these factors were the effects of constructive rate actions over the past year, lower operation and maintenance expense and income tax expense, as well as warmer-than-normal weather.
Electricity usage excluding ENOI, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Residential sales in second quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 2 percent compared to second quarter 2005.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were also up 2 percent.
Industrial sales experienced a decrease of 1 percent in second quarter 2006 compared to the same period a year ago.
The increases in the residential segment and the commercial and governmental segment reflect growth in all jurisdictions other than Entergy Louisiana where the continuing impact of last year's storms resulted in lower sales in the current quarter compared to a year ago. The quarter over quarter decline in the industrial sector reflects the negative impact of high energy prices and a continuing storm-related effect. While only one large industrial customer remains out of service, lingering outages in the pipeline sector and high energy prices continue to negatively affect electricity sales to chemical manufacturing customers of Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States - LA.
ENOI results for second quarter 2006 are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings but are excluded from operational earnings. For second quarter 2005 Utility, Parent & Other results include ENOI on both as-reported and operational bases. Also, ENOI is de-consolidated for both second quarter 2006 and second quarter 2005 reporting purposes as explained in Appendix A of this release. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations provided above exclude the revenues and expenses of ENOI.
ENOI results for second quarter 2006 reflect earnings of $0.05 per share. In second quarter 2005, ENOI earned $0.04 per share. Second quarter 2005 results reflect a normal operating environment for ENOI where results were primarily driven by margin on sales to retail customers. However, as a result of Hurricane Katrina, and the subsequent filing by ENOI for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, second quarter 2006 results reflect the ongoing impact of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by ENOI specific to its continuing effort to recover financially from this storm. Results for the current period include significantly lower revenues from customers due to extended outages and customer losses partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense due to the continued focus on storm restoration rather than routine operating activities, and ongoing cost reduction initiatives. In addition, net wholesale revenue is materially higher in the current qua rter due to an increase in energy available for sales for resale due to the lower retail usage caused by Hurricane Katrina. Current results also reflect lower interest expense due to the cessation of interest accruals on first mortgage bonds as a result of an agreement among bondholders and ENOI in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. Lastly, results reflect lower taxes other than income taxes due primarily to reduced franchise tax associated with reductions in overall revenue.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
(a) Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets. Table 5 provides a summary of Competitive Businesses' capacity and generation sold forward.
Entergy Nuclear has sold 91%, 94%, and 66% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $41, $49 and $53, for the remainder of 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets has contracted for 20%, 20% and 22% of its planned energy and capacity revenues at average prices per megawatt-hour of $22, $27 and $27, for the same periods.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.30 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2006, compared to $0.27 in second quarter 2005. The improved results in second quarter 2006 came from a combination of higher pricing as well as increased generation available due to the Vermont Yankee uprate. Partially offsetting these contributions was higher operation and maintenance expense due to higher refueling outage expenses. Another offsetting factor to the higher results this quarter was the effect of refueling outages on available generation output. The total number of refueling days was essentially the same on a quarter to quarter basis. However, the outage in second quarter 2006 was at a larger unit, Indian Point 2, while most of the outage days in second quarter 2005 were at a smaller unit, Pilgrim.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of EN's operational performance measures.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $0.03 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2006. As-reported and operational results in second quarter 2005 were $0.01 per share. The improved results were primarily attributable to the planned monetization in the current period of Entergy's interest in a power development project.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share and operational earnings guidance of $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Earnings guidance ranges exclude ENOI given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works toward filing a plan of reorganization. During 2006, actual results for ENOI are being separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes.
Entergy's 2006 guidance was established in January 2006 based on a number of assumptions as detailed below. Among them was normal weather for the Utility, and a then-current average spot electricity price of $83/MWh for the unsold portion of Entergy Nuclear's 2006 generation. During second quarter, weather was warmer-than-normal and spot electricity prices averaged $57/MWh. Published market prices for the second half of 2006 averaged $76/MWh at the end of July. These and other factors can exceed or fall short of guidance mid-point assumptions but when combined, continue to support Entergy's overall guidance range.
Guidance ranges for 2006 are based on the following key assumptions that were established in January 2006:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Sales growth of approximately 4%, weighted in the months September - December 2006 due to absence of 2005 hurricane effect
Non-storm related rate actions, including carryover effects of 2005 rate actions and 2006 rate action for Attala
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, including effects of inflation, benefits costs, supply plan, and Independent Coordinator of Transmission implementation along with the absence of 2005 offsets relating to storm restoration work
Increased interest expense from higher financing requirements
Entergy Nuclear
35 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 (spring 2006) and FitzPatrick (fall 2006) and implementation of 95 MW uprate at Vermont Yankee at end of first quarter 2006
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market
$41/MWh average energy contract price, average price of $83/MWh for unsold energy based on published market prices in January 2006
$20.50/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting inflation and higher benefits expense; $19/MWh production cost
Increased interest expense due to increased collateral requirements driven by higher market prices
Increased depreciation and other expenses
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Reduced sales of emissions allowances
Increased year over year losses
Special Items
Receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of EKLP and recognition of gain contingency
Absence of 2005 results from discontinued competitive retail operation (a 2006 estimate is not presented as ultimate amount depends on timing of sale)
Share Repurchase Program
End of year fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 213 million
The above assumptions assume no regulatory disallowances are ordered by retail regulators for the estimated $1.5 billion storm restoration costs ($0.8 billion capital, $0.7 billion regulatory assets). Any such disallowances would be shown as special items.
Earnings guidance details are provided in Table 7. This table demonstrates why 2006 results are expected to differ from 2005 based on the quantification of assumptions described above. For presentation simplicity purposes, year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2005 actuals to compute the 2006 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings excluding Entergy New Orleans.
Earnings guidance should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2006 for Utility, Parent & Other due to normal growth in customer usage and the recovery of some portion of load impacted by hurricanes. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2006, given the size of EN's unsold position. In 2005, Entergy modified its contracting strategy to provide the flexibility to retain a larger unsold position. This modification provides EN the opportunity to capture higher spot market prices. Increased volatility of expected results was considered as well. Estimated annual impacts shown in the Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Based on 2005 average fully diluted shares of approximately 214 million.
V.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy continues to focus on recovery in the aftermath of hurricanes that severely affected its business operations in August and September of 2005. While these storms created issues that may affect near-term financial performance, the company's long-term aspirations remain intact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of 5-6%, to achieve a 9% return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality over the long-term. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination of factors. These include, but are not limited to, intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm-related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory that have been severely damaged and further impacted by new flood maps and more stringent building codes, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deplo yment in investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2006 through 2008 excluding Entergy New Orleans. Entergy expects to have $1.9 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Sources of cash do not include storm recovery initiatives, such as insurance, regulatory rate relief, or funding through community development block grants because they are too preliminary or uncertain at this time. Sources of cash also include debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining a net debt ratio of 50% or less. The amount of additional debt could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment. Uses of cash shown on the table reflect current estimates of storm restoration spending and share repurchases based on resumption of the $1.5 billion share repurc hase program approved in 2004. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or material new investment opportunities.
Appendix E provides details on planned capital expenditures by business, and appendix F includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
 
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy New Orleans, Inc.'s filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analyses and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year to date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides a summary schedule of Entergy Corporation's debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix H provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on the petition filed by Entergy New Orleans, Inc. for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as well as related activities subsequent to the initial filing.
Bankruptcy Filing
To protect its franchise agreement with the City and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Important decisions were rendered by the bankruptcy court in December 2005 when the court authorized the debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing (described below), approved the priming lien for DIP financing, and ordered that use of insurance proceeds would be determined by ENOI. Numerous motions have been filed with additional motions expected as the bankruptcy proceeding continues. ENOI's exclusivity period for filing a final plan of reorganization was August 21, 2006. In response to a motion by ENOI this filing has been extended by the bankruptcy court pending a hearing set for September 18, 2006. In its motion ENOI has requested that the filing deadline for the reorganization plan be extended to December 19, 2006 with solicitation of acceptances of the plan to be completed by February 15, 2007. ENOI appeared at status conferences on June 26, 2006 and July 26, 2006 to provide progress reports to the bankruptcy court on the restructuring plan. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding go to
www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx
.
Debtor-in-Possession Financing
On September 26, 2005, ENOI, as borrower, and Entergy Corporation, as lender, entered into the DIP credit agreement, a debtor-in-possession credit facility to provide funding to ENOI during its business restoration efforts. On December 9, 2005, the bankruptcy court issued its final order approving the DIP Credit Agreement. The indenture trustee of ENOI's first mortgage bonds appealed the final order. Subsequent to the indenture trustee filing its notice of appeal, ENOI, Entergy Corporation, and the indenture trustee filed with the bankruptcy court a motion to approve a settlement among the parties. On March 29, 2006, the bankruptcy court approved the settlement, and the indenture trustee dismissed its appeal. The facility enables ENOI to request funding from Entergy Corporation, but the decision to lend money is at the sole discretion of Entergy Corporation. Entergy Corporation and ENOI have entered into an agreement to extend the terms of the DIP credit agreement through August 23, 2007, and ENOI has filed a motion with the bankruptcy court to authorize it to enter into such amendment. The hearing on the motion is set for August 16, 2006.
Accounting
Entergy owns 100 percent of the common stock of ENOI and has, subject to the rules and requirements of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, continued to supply operating management to ENOI. However, uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings caused Entergy to de-consolidate ENOI for financial reporting purposes beginning in third quarter 2005 with ENOI's financial results being recorded under the equity method of accounting. Under this methodology, earnings from ENOI are now reflected in Entergy's income statement as equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  Because Entergy owns all of the common stock of ENOI, this change has not impacted the amount of net income Entergy has recorded in the current period or any historical period but has resulted in ENOI's net income being presented in one line item rather than included in each individual income statement line item presented. Various line items of Entergy's conso lidated balance sheet and cash flow statement have been revised to reflect the impact of de-consolidating ENOI. In addition, the deconsolidation of ENOI's results is retroactive to January 1, 2005 and Entergy's comparative results now reflect ENOI results under the equity method of accounting.
 
Appendix B-1 provides details of second quarter and year-to-date 2006 vs. 2005 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Reflects for both the quarter and year-to-date periods results of retail business operations including the gain on the sale of this business during second quarter 2006.
Income taxes-other decreased in second quarter 2006 due primarily to benefits recorded in connection with flow through accounting and the favorable resolution of a tax audit issue. These items were partially offset by the absence in the current period of tax benefits from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 recorded in second quarter last year.
Net revenue decreased in second quarter 2006 compared to the same period a year ago due primarily to lower unbilled revenue partially offset by the effect of constructive rate actions in 2005 and early 2006 and warmer-than-normal weather. The year-to-date increase in net revenue was due primarily to the effect of constructive rate actions in 2005 and early 2006 partially offset by lower unbilled revenue in the current period.
Net revenue increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear due to higher pricing and the effect of the Vermont Yankee uprate. In addition, the planned monetization of Entergy's interest in a power development project increased revenues as well.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased in the current quarter and on a year-to-date basis due primarily to higher nuclear refueling outage expenses at Entergy Nuclear as well as increased spending at the Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business.
Interest expense and other charges increased in both the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher borrowings under credit lines and long-term debt primarily in connection with financing of significant 2005 storm restoration costs.
Other income (deductions) decreased due primarily to the absence of an adjustment made to the decommissioning liability at Entergy Nuclear in early 2005.
 
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
(m) ENOI results for the quarterly and year-to-date periods of 2005 are included in operational earnings.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix H-1.
Data has not been restated for the de-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in third quarter 2005, retroactive to first quarter 2005.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2006 through 2008 includes $3.6 billion for investment; more than $2.2 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. Approximately $1.1 billion is associated with specific investments such as transmission upgrades, dry cask storage and license renewal projects at certain nuclear sites, and other investments, such as the purchase of the Attala plant, that support the utility's ability to meet load growth.
Entergy New Orleans' planned capital expenditures for the years 2006-2008 total $165 million, including $72 million of storm capital. The above table does not reflect any capital expenditures, including the initial acquisition cost of $350 million, associated with Entergy's recent announcement of its agreement to acquire the Palisades nuclear unit.
Appendix F provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
 
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
Appendices H-1 and H-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors (in addition to the risk factors in the Form 10-K as well as others described i n Entergy's Form 10-Q and in subsequent securities filings) include: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to Entergy's System Agreement, Entergy's utility supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, and Entergy's ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contra cts, Entergy's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establis hment of a regional transmission organization that includes Entergy's utility service territory, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather and the occ urrence of hurricanes and other storms and disasters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                  
Entergy Corporation 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
     
News Release
                  Date:                        August 8, 2006
                  For Release:             Immediately
                  Contact:                   Yolanda Pollard (News Media)                    Michele Lopiccolo (Investor Relations)                                                   (504) 576-4238                                           (504) 576-4879                                                   ypollar@entergy.com                                   mlopicc@entergy.com
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported second quarter 2006 as-reported earnings of $281.8 million, or $1.33 per share, compared with $286.2 million, or $1.33 per share, for second quarter 2005. On an operational basis, Entergy's second quarter 2006 earnings were $258.0 million, or $1.22 per share, compared with $289.0 million, or $1.34 per share, in second quarter 2005.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to lower unbilled revenue and higher interest expense.
Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of higher revenue due to higher energy pricing and the effect of the uprate completed at Vermont Yankee.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had higher results due to planned monetization of its ownership interest in a power development project.
"Significant progress has been achieved in initiatives aimed at both recovering from the effects of last year's storms and positioning Entergy to be fully prepared for future challenges," said . "Actions consistent with our regulatory compacts are being taken and we continue to aggressively pursue Community Development Block Grants and the securitization of restoration costs to mitigate the storms' effects on our customers' bills. All the while, we remain focused on delivering reliable service, growing our nuclear business, and creating value for our shareholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy Nuclear reached an agreement for the purchase of the Palisades nuclear energy plant.
Legislation supporting the securitization of storm costs was approved in Louisiana and Texas.
Entergy Mississippi received regulatory approval for recovery of storm costs.
In second quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported earnings of $213.1 million, or $1.00 per share, compared to earnings of $226.8 million, or $1.05 per share, in second quarter 2005. On an operational basis, earnings were $189.3 million, or 89 cents per share, in second quarter 2006, compared to $229.6 million, or $1.06 per share, in second quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect 11 cents per share in special items, including earnings from Entergy New Orleans, Inc. of five cents per share. Both second quarter 2006 and 2005 special items include the operating loss from the competitive retail business in Texas, which was two cents per share in the current period and one cent per share in second quarter 2005. Entergy sold its customer base in the retail business in April 2006, and special items for second quarter 2006 include the gain on that sale in the amount of eight cents per share.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2006, excluding Entergy New Orleans, primarily reflect lower unbilled revenues, compared to second quarter 2005 and higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Partially offsetting these factors were the effects of constructive rate actions over the past year, lower operation and maintenance expense and income tax expense, as well as warmer-than-normal weather.
Excluding Entergy New Orleans, megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in second quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up two percent, compared to second quarter 2005. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up two percent, compared to the prior quarter. Industrial sales experienced a decrease of one percent in second quarter 2006, compared to the same period a year ago.
The increases in the residential segment and the commercial and governmental segment reflect growth in all jurisdictions other than Entergy Louisiana where the continuing impact of last year's storms resulted in lower sales in the current quarter compared to a year ago. The quarter over quarter decline in the industrial sector reflects the negative impact of high energy prices and a continuing storm-related effect. While only one large industrial customer remains out of service, lingering outages in the pipeline sector and high energy prices continue to negatively affect electricity sales to chemical manufacturing customers of Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States - Louisiana.
Entergy New Orleans' results for second quarter 2006 are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings but are excluded from operational earnings. For second quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other results include Entergy New Orleans on both as-reported and operational bases. Also, Entergy New Orleans is de-consolidated for both second quarter 2006 and second quarter 2005 reporting purposes due to uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the Entergy New Orleans bankruptcy proceedings. (On September 23, 2005 Entergy New Orleans filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to protect its franchise agreement with the City of New Orleans and ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.) Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations provided above exclude the revenues and expenses of Entergy New Orleans.
Entergy New Orleans' results for second quarter 2006 reflect earnings of five cents per share. In second quarter 2005, Entergy New Orleans earned four cents per share. Second quarter 2005 results reflect a normal operating environment for Entergy New Orleans where results were primarily driven by margin on sales to retail customers. However, as a result of Hurricane Katrina, and the subsequent filing by Entergy New Orleans for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, second quarter 2006 results reflect the ongoing impact of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by Entergy New Orleans specific to its continuing effort to recover financially from this storm. Results for the current period include significantly lower revenues from customers due to extended outages and customer losses, partially offset by lower operation and maintenance expense due to the continued focus on storm restoration rather than routine operating activities, and ongoing cost reduction initiatives. I n addition, net wholesale revenue is materially higher in the current quarter due to an increase in energy available for sales for resale due to the lower retail usage caused by Hurricane Katrina. Current results also reflect lower interest expense due to the cessation of interest accruals on first mortgage bonds as a result of an agreement among bondholders and Entergy New Orleans in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. Lastly, results reflect lower taxes other than income taxes due primarily to reduced franchise tax associated with reductions in overall revenue.
Entergy Nuclear earned $63.4 million, or 30 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2006. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $58.3 million, or 27 cents per share, in second quarter 2005. The improved results in second quarter 2006 came from a combination of higher pricing as well as increased generation available due to the Vermont Yankee uprate. Partially offsetting these contributions was higher operation and maintenance expense due to higher refueling outage expenses. Another offsetting factor to the higher results this quarter was the effect of refueling outages on available generation output. The total number of refueling days was essentially the same on a quarter to quarter basis. However, the outage in second quarter 2006 was at a larger unit, Indian Point 2, while most of the outage days in second quarter 2005 were at a smaller unit, Pilgrim.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business earned $5.3 million, or three cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2006. As-reported and operational results in second quarter 2005 were $1.1 million, or one cent per share. The improved results were primarily attributable to the planned monetization in the current period of Entergy's interest in a power development project.
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported earnings guidance for 2006 in the range of $4.78 to $5.08 per share and operational earnings guidance of $4.50 to $4.80 per share. Earnings guidance ranges exclude Entergy New Orleans given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works toward filing a plan of reorganization. During 2006, actual results for Entergy New Orleans are being separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes.
Entergy continues to focus on recovery in the aftermath of hurricanes that severely affected its business operations in August and September of 2005. While these storms created issues that may affect near-term financial performance, the company's long-term aspirations remain intact. Specifically, Entergy aspires to deliver average annual earnings per share growth of five to six percent, to achieve a nine percent return on invested capital, and to continue to improve the company's overall credit quality over the long-term. The company's ability to achieve these aspirations over time will be based upon a combination of factors. These include, but are not limited to, intrinsic growth, the recovery of storm-related restoration costs, the return of customers and load to portions of the Entergy service territory that have been severely damaged and further impacted by new flood maps and more stringent building codes, and the amount of cash that is available for capital deployment in investments, share repurchase s, dividends or debt retirement.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarter and year to date results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated August 8, 2006, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations website at http://www.entergy.com/investor_relations/.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors (in addition to the risk factors in the Form 10-K as well as others described in Entergy's Form 10-Q and in subsequent securities filings) include: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to Entergy's System Agreement, Entergy's utility supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy must purchase for its utility customers, and Entergy's ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contracts, Entergy's a bility to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regulation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establishment of a regio nal transmission organization that includes Entergy's utility service territory, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in Entergy's service territory, variations in weather and the occurrence of hurri canes and other storms and disasters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of  service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the impact of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongo ing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, free cash flow and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Free cash flow, as defined by Entergy, is net cash flow provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reduced by cash requirements for nuclear fuel purchases and decommissioning trust fund contributions, planned maintenance capital expenditures, and estimated preferred dividends, and does not consider other potential demands on cash such as mandatory debt service requirements. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availabili ty of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Earnings Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


