FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20070130073254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 30, 2007, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2006. The Earnings Releases also discuss Entergy New Orleans' results of operations for the fourth quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On January 30, 2007, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2006. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation Entergy New Orleans, Inc.
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: January 30, 2007
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
January 30, 2007
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported fourth quarter 2006 earnings of $1.27 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.79 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Fourth Quarter 2006
Utility, Parent & Other had higher earnings due to higher revenues from sales growth and constructive rate actions, income associated with a regulatory settlement, and lower income taxes.
Entergy Nuclear earnings decreased as a result of higher income taxes and higher operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported results comparable to results in the same period last year.
"We faced many challenges in 2006 and made great strides including another record year in terms of safety. Our proudest day, now clearly in sight, will be when our dedicated employees achieve no lost time accidents" said . "In 2007 we face a full agenda and efforts will continue to be focused on superior service for our customers, strong earnings growth for shareholders, and long-term sustainable growth for all our stakeholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Entergy today announced a $1.5 billion common stock repurchase program to be effective immediately.
In December 2006, Entergy Gulf States-TX reached a settlement on its storm cost recovery plan and submitted its storm cost securitization filing to the Public Utility Commission of Texas.
Approval for the jurisdictional split of Entergy Gulf States into separate Louisiana and Texas entities was received from the Louisiana Public Service Commission in January 2007.
Entergy won Edison Electric Institute's (EEI) Emergency Assistance Award, the ninth consecutive year Entergy has been recognized for storm restoration excellence, an achievement unmatched by any other utility.
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, January 30, 2007, with access by telephone, 719-457-2637, confirmation code 2310470. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 2310470. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
.
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for fourth quarter and year-to-date 2006 versus 2005, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other recorded higher earnings in the current quarter due primarily to higher revenues from sales growth and constructive rate actions, income associated with a regulatory settlement, and lower income taxes. Entergy Nuclear's earnings decreased as a result of higher income taxes and higher operation and maintenance expense. Also, Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had results in the current period comparable to results in fourth quarter 2005.
Detailed earnings variance analyses are included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in fourth quarter 2006 was $1.2 billion compared to $361 million in fourth quarter 2005. The increase was due primarily to the following items at Utility, Parent & Other:
favorable changes in working capital driven primarily by storm-related activity in 2005 compared to significantly reduced storm-related activity in fourth quarter 2006
current period collections of $116 million of deferred fuel balances and $81 million of Community Development Block Grant funding
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
 
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In fourth quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $1.08 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.47 per share on an operational basis compared to no as-reported earnings and $0.16 of operational earnings in fourth quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect special items totaling $0.61 per share as follows:
$(0.09) per share loss at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) in fourth quarter 2006
$0.26 per share gain on the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading based on receipt of final cash distributions
$0.49 per share of tax benefits associated with liquidation of the holding company that owned Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP
$(0.05) per share loss from the discontinued competitive retail business in Texas
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in fourth quarter 2006, excluding ENOI, primarily reflect higher revenue from sales growth and constructive rate actions, income associated with recording a regulatory asset to reflect a regulatory order issued during the period, and lower income taxes. Partially offsetting these factors were higher operation and maintenance expense due primarily to higher benefits expense, higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and the absence of colder-than-normal weather that contributed positively to earnings in fourth quarter 2005.
Electricity usage excluding ENOI, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in fourth quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were comparable to fourth quarter 2005.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 5 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of 9 percent in fourth quarter 2006 compared to the same period a year ago.
The absence of any increase in the residential segment reflects the lagging return of citizens to storm-affected regions. The quarter over quarter increase in the commercial and industrial sectors reflect rebound from the effect of storms in fourth quarter 2005. The industrial sector has seen some level of recovery in all segments with the exception of pipelines which continue to experience the effects of periodic interruptions in their operations and mild winter weather.
ENOI results for fourth quarter 2006 reflect a loss of ($0.09) per share. In fourth quarter 2005, ENOI also reported a loss in the amount of ($0.08) per share. ENOI's 2006 loss is being treated as a special item as described above, while its 2005 loss was included in operational earnings. Additional information on ENOI, its bankruptcy, and the applicable accounting treatment are explained in Appendix A of this release.
 
In fourth quarter 2005 ENOI experienced significant reductions in operating revenues due to customer losses as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Fourth quarter 2006 results reflect the ongoing effects of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by ENOI to stabilize the company's financial condition. Results for the current period include higher operation and maintenance expense due to bankruptcy reorganization expenses, including previously waived interest on first mortgage bonds that was accrued and recorded in operation and maintenance expense. Interest had not been accrued since the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing date in September 2005 for a period of one year as part of a December 2005 agreement between bondholders and ENOI. ENOI's Plan of Reorganization provides for a payment equal to the amount of that full year's interest at the time of exit from bankruptcy. ENOI's Plan also provides for interest to unsecured creditors from the bankruptcy filing date, which ENOI accrued in four th quarter 2006. Also, pursuant to an agreement with the bondholders approved by the bankruptcy court, ENOI is paying current interest on the bonds which is reflected in interest expense in fourth quarter 2006.
For the year 2006, Utility, Parent & Other earned $3.97 per share on an as-reported earnings basis, compared to $2.82 per share in 2005. Operational earnings in 2006 were $3.20 per share compared to $3.03 per share in 2005. The higher operational earnings in 2006 were due primarily to higher revenues from sales growth and constructive rate actions and lower income taxes.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
(a) Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets. Table 5 provides a summary of Entergy Nuclear's capacity and generation sold forward projections.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position, including projections for the Palisades acquisition currently estimated to close in second quarter 2007, is 95%, 85%, and 64% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $49, $53 and $57, for 2007, 2008, and 2009, respectively.
 
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.27 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2006, compared to $0.37 in fourth quarter 2005. The lower results in fourth quarter 2006 came from higher income taxes, and higher operation and maintenance expense due to higher benefits expense. Partially offsetting these effects was higher pricing.
For the year 2006, Entergy Nuclear earned $1.46 per share on both as-reported and operational bases, compared with $1.32 per share for 2005. The increase in 2006 earnings was due primarily to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and higher generation due to fewer outage days and uprates.
Table 6 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business recorded a loss of $(0.08) per share on an as-reported basis and earnings of $0.05 on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2006. Earnings on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2005 were $0.06 per share. Operational results for the current quarter primarily reflect lower income taxes while earnings in fourth quarter 2005 included sales of SO
2
allowances. There were no sales of SO
2
allowances in the current period.
For the year 2006, Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business lost ($0.07) per share on an as-reported basis compared to earnings of $0.05 per share in 2005. Operational earnings in 2006 were $0.06 per share compared to earnings of $0.05 per share in 2005.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2007 in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share. Earnings guidance for 2007 excludes ENOI given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. During 2007, actual results for ENOI will be separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes until such time as ENOI emerges from bankruptcy. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2006 actual results to compute the 2007 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings excluding Entergy New Orleans. Earnings guidance for 2007 is detailed in Table 7 below. The 2007 guidance table has been updated in January 2007 to reflect actual 2006 financial results, including weather.
Key assumptions, established in October 2006, supporting 2007 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of just under 2%
Increased revenue associated with storm and non-storm rate requests, partially offset by declining wholesale revenues, among others
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to effects of wage and other inflation and increased insurance premiums
Increased interest expense primarily from securitization debt and Palisades financing
Entergy Nuclear
Incremental earnings of $0.20 total for Palisades acquisition, assuming second quarter close; Palisades' contributions to Entergy Nuclear's 2007 metrics are factored in the assumptions that follow
38 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 92% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 3, Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee, all in Spring 2007, and the initial refueling outage at Palisades, in Fall 2007
95% energy sold under existing contracts; 5% sold into the spot market
$49/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published forward market prices in October 2006
85% capacity sold under existing contracts; 15% sold in spot market
$1.60 per kW per month average capacity-only contract price; $3.00 per kW per month unsold capacity based on market prices in October 2006
$21.25/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting wage and other inflation; $20.50/MWh production cost
 
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased losses
Special Items
Absence of 2006 recognition of gain contingency associated with receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of Entergy-Koch Trading and related tax benefits from liquidation of the holding company that owned Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP
Absence of 2006 effect of write-off of capital losses at Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Absence of 2006 results from ENOI as a result of uncertainties associated with working through bankruptcy; 2007 results will be treated as a special item until such time and ENOI emerges from bankruptcy
Share Repurchase Program
2007 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 206 million; excludes effect of the new $1.5 billion share repurchase program
The above assumptions assume no regulatory disallowances are ordered by retail regulators for the estimated $1.5 billion storm restoration costs ($0.8 billion capital, $0.7 billion regulatory assets). Any such disallowances would be shown as special items assuming such disallowances are not appealed to the courts or in the case of appeals, are later disallowed by the courts.
 
Earnings guidance for 2007 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2007 for Utility, Parent & Other due to normal growth in customer usage. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2007. Estimated annual impacts shown in the Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Based on 2006average fully diluted shares of approximately 211 million. Entergy Nuclear assumes Palisades acquisition closes in second quarter 2007.
V.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to its owners as measured by total shareholder return. Entergy believes top-quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, improving returns on invested capital, maintaining investment grade credit quality and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2007 through 2009 excluding Entergy New Orleans. The $1.5 billion share repurchase program announced today, along with its associated effect on debt capacity, is reflected in this table. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities. Assuming the entire repurchase program is executed, Entergy expects to have $1.0 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Cash flow from operations includes storm cost recovery anticipated from a combination of insurance, rate relief, and securitization; these amounts are applied consistent with regulatory filings and other agreements reached with governmental agencies under which benefits inure to ratepayer s. Sources of cash also include debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining credit quality consistent with BBB credit rating. The amount of additional debt could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment.
Appendix E provides additional details on planned capital expenditures, and appendix F includes a summarized schedule of debt maturities.
 
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy New Orleans, Inc.'s filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analyses and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year to date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary schedule of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides a summary schedule of Entergy Corporation's debt maturities by business.
Appendix G provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix H provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non - -GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on the status of the bankruptcy process at Entergy New Orleans, Inc.
Bankruptcy Filing
To ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Plan of Reorganization
ENOI filed its initial Plan of Reorganization (POR) with the bankruptcy court on October 23, 2006 and filed its Fourth Amended Plan (Plan) on January 24, 2007. A competing plan has been filed by the unsecured creditors and on January 25, 2007 the bankruptcy court ruled that both ENOI's Plan and the unsecured creditors' plan could be distributed to all parties in the bankruptcy proceeding for review and consideration for approval.
ENOI believes its Plan is workable, fair and in the public interest. The Plan provides full compensation for all of ENOI's creditors and allows ENOI to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy assuming the plan is supported by creditors and the various conditions included in the plan, as detailed below, are met. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding including the original POR and all amendments, go to
www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx
.
Conditions precedent that must be satisfied for ENOI's Plan to become effective include:
A final Confirmation Order from the bankruptcy court approving the POR as amended
Receipt by ENOI of insurance proceeds of at least $50 million
Receipt by ENOI of $200 million in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding
No Material Adverse Change shall have occurred from and after Confirmation date of the POR
Community Development Block Grant Funding
ENOI applied to the Louisiana Recovery Authority (LRA) for funding from CDBG resources made available to Louisiana. All required state approvals for funding of $200 million have been received with the only remaining approval pending from HUD. Assuming HUD approval, ENOI currently anticipates that it should receive CDBG funding during the first half 2007.
ENOI Rate Plan
On October 27, 2006, the City Council of New Orleans approved a settlement agreement with ENOI that calls for a phased-in rate increase and the creation of a $75M storm reserve that positions ENOI to pay for future hurricane damage. Additional information is included in the Regulatory Summary Table in Appendix C.
Accounting
Entergy owns 100 percent of the common stock of ENOI and has, subject to the rules and requirements of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, continued to supply operating management to ENOI. However, uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings caused Entergy to de-consolidate ENOI for financial reporting purposes beginning in third quarter 2005 with ENOI's financial results being recorded under the equity method of accounting. Under this methodology, earnings from ENOI are now reflected in Entergy's income statement as equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  Because Entergy owns all of the common stock of ENOI, this change has not affected the amount of net income Entergy has recorded in the current period or any historical period but has resulted in ENOI's net income being presented in one line item rather than included in each individual income statement line item presented. Various line items of Entergy's conso lidated balance sheet and cash flow statement have been revised to reflect the effects of de-consolidating ENOI. In addition, the deconsolidation of ENOI's results is retroactive to January 1, 2005 and Entergy's comparative results now reflect ENOI results under the equity method of accounting.
Appendices B-1 and B-2 provide details of fourth quarter and year-to-date 2006 vs. 2005 earnings variance analyses for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Income taxes-other decreased in the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to tax benefits associated with liquidation of the holding company that owned Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP and the net tax benefit recorded in connection with the final IRS audit settlement for the years 1996-1998.
Income taxes-other increased in the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to the write-off of tax capital losses that are unlikely to be used prior to expiration.
Net revenue increased in the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to sales growth, the effect of constructive rate actions, and the collection of franchise taxes consistent with EAI regulatory treatment.
Other income (deductions) increased in the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to recognition of the gain on the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading as the final cash distribution from the transaction was received.
Interest and dividend income increased in the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to the recording of a regulatory asset in the current period, which effectively increased income, to reflect a regulatory settlement.
Retail business discontinued operations increased in the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to the absence of an asset impairment reserve recorded in fourth quarter 2005. In addition, the year-to-date period includes lower losses compared to 2005 as the business was sold in April 2006.
Interest expense and othe r charges increased in both the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher borrowings under credit lines and long-term debt primarily in connection with the financing of significant 2005 storm restoration costs.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased in both the fourth quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to resources being deployed to storm restoration rather than routine operation and maintenance expense activities in comparable periods of 2005, higher labor and benefit expenses in the current periods, and increased costs associated with the addition of the Attala plant in early 2006. In addition, the year-to-date 2006 period reflects the absence of any proceeds related to a low-level radioactive waste services settlement which served to reduce expense in 2005.
Net revenue increased in the year-to-date period due primarily to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear due to higher pricing and the effect of higher generation resulting from the Vermont Yankee uprate and fewer outages.
Taxes other than income taxes increased in the year-to-date period due primarily to a regulatory requirement that EAI franchise tax collections be recorded in revenue with a corresponding increase in taxes other than income taxes.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased due primarily to higher benefits expense at Entergy Nuclear.
 
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
(p) ENOI results for the quarterly and year-to-date periods of 2005 are included in operational earnings.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix H-1.
Reflects effect of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 158 resulting in an increase in the debt to capital ratio of 0.3%.
 
 
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Appendix E: Planned Capital Expenditures
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2007 through 2009 anticipates $5.3 billion for investment; roughly $2.6 billion of this amount is associated with capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. The remaining $2.7 billion is associated with specific investments such as the Palisades acquisition, transmission upgrades, dry cask storage and license renewal projects at certain nuclear sites, environmental compliance spending, NYPA value sharing costs and other investments, such as potential opportunities to purchase or construct plants through Entergy's supply plan initiative designed to meet Utility load growth. Excluded from the below expenditures are costs associated with the potential inter-connection between Entergy Gulf States-TX and ERCOT, the current estimate of such costs being approximately $1 billion.
Appendix F provides details on scheduled long-term debt maturities including currently maturing portions.
Appendix G provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices H-1 and H-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
In this release and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy Corporation believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy Corporation undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors (in addition to the risk factors in the For m 10-K as well as others described in the Form 10-Q for Entergy Corporation and its affiliates and in subsequent securities filings) include: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to the Entergy System Agreement, Entergy's utilities' supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's utilities' ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's Utility and non-utility generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy's utilities must p urchase for their customers, and Entergy's utilities' ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contracts, Entergy Corporation's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy Corporation's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy Corporation's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regu lation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establishment of a regional transmission organization that includes the areas served by Entergy's utilities, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissio ns of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in the areas served by Entergy's utilities, variations in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes and other storms and disasters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's utilities' ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy Corporation's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy Corporation's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported fourth quarter 2006 as-reported earnings of $268.3 million, or $1.27 per share, compared with $90.2 million, or 43 cents per share, for fourth quarter 2005. On an operational basis, Entergy's fourth quarter 2006 earnings were $166.9 million, or 79 cents per share, compared with $123.7 million, or 59 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2005.
For the year, Entergy's as-reported earnings were $1.1 billion, or $5.36 per share, and operational earnings were $997.7 million, or $4.72 per share. These results compare with as-reported earnings of $898.3 million, or $4.19 per share, and operational earnings of $943.1 million, or $4.40 per share.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other had higher operational earnings due to higher revenues from sales growth and constructive rate actions, income associated with a regulatory settlement, and lower income taxes.
Entergy Nuclear operational earnings decreased as a result of higher income taxes and higher operation and maintenance expense.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported operational results comparable to results in the same period last year.
Entergy New Orleans lost $19.6 million, or nine cents per share reflecting the ongoing effects of the hurricane, as well as certain actions taken by Entergy New Orleans to stabilize the company's financial condition.
"We faced many challenges in 2006 and made great strides including another record year in terms of safety. Our proudest day, now clearly in sight, will be when our dedicated employees achieve no lost time accidents," said . "In 2007 we face a full agenda, and efforts will continue to be focused on superior service for our customers, strong earnings growth for shareholders, and long-term sustainable growth for all our stakeholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy today announced a $1.5 billion common stock repurchase program to be effective immediately.
In December 2006, Entergy Gulf States-Texas reached a settlement on its storm cost recovery plan and submitted its storm cost securitization filing to the Public Utility Commission of Texas.
Approval for the jurisdictional split of Entergy Gulf States into separate Louisiana and Texas entities was received from the Louisiana Public Service Commission in January 2007.
Entergy won Edison Electric Institute's Emergency Assistance Award, the ninth consecutive year Entergy has been recognized for storm restoration excellence, an achievement unmatched by any other utility. EEI also presented Entergy with the Advocacy Excellence Award for nuclear advocacy and a voter registration campaign among employees.
In fourth quarter 2006, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported earnings of $226.6 million, or $1.08 per share, compared to a loss of $0.2 million, or zero cents per share, in fourth quarter 2005. On an operational basis, earnings were $97.5 million, or 47 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2006, compared to $33.4 million, or 16 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2005. As-reported 2006 earnings reflect special items totaling 61 cents per share including: 1) nine cents per share loss at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. in fourth quarter 2006; 2) 26 cents per share gain on the sale of Entergy-Koch Trading based on receipt of final cash distributions; 3) 49 cents per share of tax benefits associated with liquidation of the holding company that owned Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP and, 4) five cents per share loss from the discontinued competitive retail business in Texas.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in fourth quarter 2006, excluding Entergy New Orleans, primarily reflect higher revenue from sales growth and constructive rate actions, income associated with recording a regulatory asset to reflect a regulatory order issued during the period, and lower income taxes. Partially offsetting these factors were higher operation and maintenance expense due primarily to higher benefits expense, higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and the absence of colder-than-normal weather that contributed positively to earnings in fourth quarter 2005.
Excluding Entergy New Orleans, megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in fourth quarter 2006, on a weather-adjusted basis, were comparable to fourth quarter 2005. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up five percent, compared to the prior quarter. Industrial sales experienced an increase of nine percent in fourth quarter 2006, compared to the same period a year ago.
The absence of any increase in the residential segment reflects the lagging return of citizens to storm-affected regions. The quarter over quarter increase in the commercial and industrial sectors reflects rebound from the effect of storms in fourth quarter 2005. The industrial sector has seen some level of recovery in all segments with the exception of pipeline, which continues to experience the effects of periodic interruptions in their operations and mild winter weather.
Entergy New Orleans' results for fourth quarter 2006 are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings, but are excluded from operational earnings. For fourth quarter 2005, Utility, Parent & Other results include Entergy New Orleans on both as-reported and operational bases. Also, Entergy New Orleans is de-consolidated for both fourth quarter 2006 and fourth quarter 2005 reporting purposes due to uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the Entergy New Orleans bankruptcy proceedings. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations provided above exclude the revenues and expenses of Entergy New Orleans.
To ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Entergy New Orleans filed its initial plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy court on October 23, 2006 and filed its fourth amended plan on January 24, 2007. A competing plan has been filed by the unsecured creditors and on January 25, 2007 the bankruptcy court ruled that both Entergy New Orleans' plan and the unsecured creditor's plan could be distributed to all parties in the bankruptcy proceeding for review and consideration for approval. Entergy believes its plan is workable, fair, and in the public interest. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding, including the original plan of reorganization and all amendments, go to www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx.
Entergy New Orleans' results for fourth quarter 2006 reflect a loss of $19.6 million, or nine cents per share. In fourth quarter 2005, Entergy New Orleans also reported a loss in the amount of $19.3 million, or eight cents per share. In fourth quarter 2005 Entergy New Orleans experienced significant reductions in operating revenues due to customer losses as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Fourth quarter 2006 results Results for the current period include higher operation and maintenance expense due to bankruptcy reorganization expenses, including previously waived interest on first mortgage bonds that was accrued and recorded in operation and maintenance expense. Interest had not been accrued since the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing date in September 2005 for a period of one year as part of a December 2005 agreement between Entergy New Orleans and bondholders. Entergy New Orleans' plan of reorganization provides for a payment equal to the amount of that full year's interest at the time of exit from bankruptcy. Entergy New Orleans' plan of reorganization also provides for interest to unsecured creditors from the bankruptcy filing date, which Entergy New Orleans accrued in fourth quarter 2006. Also, pursuant to an agreement with the bondholders approved by the bankruptcy court, Entergy New Orleans is paying current interest on the bonds which is reflected in interest expense in fourth quarter 2006.
reflect the ongoing effects of the hurricane as well as certain actions taken by Entergy New Orleans to stabilize the company's financial condition.
For the year 2006, Utility, Parent and Other earned $838.8 million, or $3.97 per share, on an as-reported basis, compared with $604.2 million, or $2.82 per share, for 2005. Operational earnings in 2006 were $676.2 million, or $3.20 per share, compared to $648.9 million, or $3.03 per share, in 2005. The higher operational earnings in 2006 were due primarily to higher revenues from sales growth and constructive rate actions and lower income taxes.
Entergy Nuclear earned $57.7 million, or 27 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2006. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $77.1 million, or 37 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2005. The lower results in fourth quarter 2006 came from higher income taxes and higher operation and maintenance expense due to higher benefits expense. Partially offsetting these effects was higher pricing.
For the year 2006, Entergy Nuclear earned $309.5 million, or $1.46 per share, on both as-reported and operational bases, compared with $282.6 million, or $1.32 per share, for 2005. The increase in 2006 earnings was due primarily to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and higher generation due to fewer outage days and uprates.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business recorded a loss of $16.0 million, or eight cents per share, on an as-reported basis, and earnings of $11.7 million, or five cents per share, on an operational basis, in fourth quarter 2006. Earnings on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2005 were $13.3 million, or six cents per share. Operational results for the current quarter primarily reflect lower income taxes while earnings in fourth quarter 2005 included sales of SO allowances. There were no sales of SO allowances in the current period.
2
2
For the year 2006, Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business lost $15.7 million, or seven cents per share, on an as-reported basis compared to earnings of $11.6 million, or five cents per share, for 2005. Operational earnings for 2006 were $12.0 million, or six cents per share, compared to $11.6 million, or five cents per share, for 2005.
Entergy is reaffirming 2007 earnings guidance in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share on both as-reported and operational bases. Earnings guidance for 2007 excludes Entergy New Orleans given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. During 2007, actual results for Entergy New Orleans will be separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes until such time as Entergy New Orleans emerges from bankruptcy.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarter and year-to-date results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated January 30, 2007, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this release and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes statements concerning its expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, and future events or performance. Such statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Entergy Corporation believes that these forward-looking statements and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot provide assurance that they will prove correct. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy Corporation undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Some of those factors (in addition to the risk factors in the For m 10-K as well as others described in the Form 10-Q for Entergy Corporation and its affiliates and in subsequent securities filings) include: resolution of pending and future rate cases and negotiations, including various performance-based rate discussions and implementation of new Texas legislation, and other proceedings, including those related to the Entergy System Agreement, Entergy's utilities' supply plan, recovery of storm costs, and recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy's utilities' ability to manage its operation and maintenance costs, the performance of Entergy's Utility and non-utility generating plants, and particularly the capacity factor at its nuclear generating facilities, prices for power generated by Entergy's unregulated generating facilities, the ability to hedge, sell power forward or otherwise reduce the market price risk associated with those facilities, including the Non-Utility Nuclear plants, and the prices and availability of fuel and power Entergy's utilities must p urchase for their customers, and Entergy's utilities' ability to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power supply contracts, Entergy Corporation's ability to develop and execute on a point of view regarding prices of electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related commodities, changes in the financial markets, particularly those affecting the availability of capital and Entergy Corporation's ability to refinance existing debt, execute its share repurchase program, and fund investments and acquisitions, actions of rating agencies, including changes in the ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general corporate ratings, and changes in the rating agencies' ratings criteria, changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates, Entergy Corporation's ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive prices and on other attractive terms, volatility and changes in markets for electricity, natural gas, uranium, and other energy-related commodities, changes in utility regu lation, including the beginning or end of retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net utility assets and other potential stranded costs, the establishment of a regional transmission organization that includes the areas served by Entergy's utilities, and the application of market power criteria by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, changes in regulation of nuclear generation facilities and nuclear materials and fuel, including possible shutdown of nuclear generating facilities, particularly those in the northeastern United States, uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, resolution of pending or future applications for license extensions or modifications of nuclear generating facilities, changes in law resulting from federal energy legislation, including the effects of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 repeal, changes in environmental, tax, and other laws, including requirements for reduced emissio ns of sulfur, nitrogen, carbon, mercury, and other substances, the economic climate, particularly growth in the areas served by Entergy's utilities, variations in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes and other storms and disasters, including uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and recovery of costs associated with restoration including Entergy's utilities' ability to obtain financial assistance from governmental authorities in connection with these storms, the outcome of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and the impact of this proceeding on other Entergy companies, advances in technology, the potential effects of threatened or actual terrorism and war, the effects of Entergy Corporation's strategies to reduce tax payments, the effects of litigation and government investigations, changes in accounting standards, corporate governance, and securities law requirements, Entergy Corporation's ability to attract and retain talented management and directors.
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items". Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ong oing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Earnings Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


