FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20070731075139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 31, 2007, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2007. The Earnings Releases also disclose Entergy New Orleans' results of operations for the second quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On July 31, 2007, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: July 31, 2007
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
July 31, 2007
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported second quarter 2007 earnings of $1.32 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Second Quarter 2007
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance, income tax and interest expense and the effect of essentially normal weather compared to warmer-than-normal weather in 2006.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing and production from the newly-acquired Palisades plant, partially offset by the effect of reduced production due to planned and unplanned outages.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported higher results due to lower income taxes.
"Efforts to move ahead with the transformation of our asset portfolio resulted in marked success this quarter," said . "We reached agreement with a key business partner to preserve the new nuclear option while also taking important steps in advancing value-creating opportunities at both the regulated utility and non-utility nuclear businesses."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Entergy New Orleans, Inc. emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
Entergy realized marked success for the Utility portfolio transformation strategy by seeking regulatory approval for Entergy Louisiana, LLC's Little Gypsy repowering project and signing a project development agreement with GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy to ensure timely delivery of schedule-critical parts to preserve Entergy's nuclear new build opportunity.
Entergy Nuclear, in an effort to simplify and centralize the structure of its non-utility nuclear business, filed for approval from the NRC for the indirect transfer of control of operating licenses which, if granted, could facilitate new stand-alone debt financing of up to $5.5 billion at that business.
Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors approved the first increase in its quarterly common stock dividend since October 2004.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, July 31, 2007, with access by telephone, (719) 457-2637, confirmation code 2801784. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 2801784. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com.
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter 2007 versus 2006, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance, income tax and interest expense and the effect of essentially normal weather. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing and additional production available from the recently acquired Palisades plant, partially offset by the effect of reduced production due to additional planned and unplanned outages. Also, Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported higher results due to lower income tax expense in the current period.
Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during second quarter 2007 and consistent with applicable consolidation accounting and reporting standards Entergy has re-consolidated ENOI for financial reporting purposes effective this quarter and retroactive to January 1, 2007. While, in accordance with GAAP, 2006 will not be re-consolidated, to facilitate comparisons for earnings release purposes Pro-forma 2006 results re-consolidating ENOI will be reported. Reconciliations of this 2006 non-GAAP view to the GAAP view can be found in Appendix F.
Detailed earnings variance analyses are included in appendices A-1 and A-2 to this release. In addition, appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2007 was $471 million compared to $516 million in second quarter 2006. The decrease was due primarily to the following items:
Higher income tax payments for the Entergy system companies totaling $143 million which is net of the effects of intercompany tax allocation settlements in second quarter 2006.
Reduced collections of deferred fuel recovery in the current quarter totaling $184 million.
 
Partially offsetting these factors were the following items:
Proceeds totaling $177 million in Community Development Block Grant funds at Entergy New Orleans.
Lower non-capital storm spending of $54 million.
Higher net revenues at Entergy Nuclear of $32 million.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In second quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $0.59 per share on as-reported and operational bases, compared to $1.00 per share in as-reported earnings and $0.89 per share of operational earnings in second quarter 2006. 2007 earnings include earnings for Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) of $0.06 per share which is being reflected in operational earnings with the company's emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during second quarter 2007.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2007 primarily reflect higher operation and maintenance expense, higher income tax expense and higher interest expense. Higher operation and maintenance expense is due primarily to increased spending in distribution, transmission and fossil associated with a return to normal maintenance activity consistent with pre-storm levels, and increased spending at nuclear for higher NRC fees and an unplanned outage at the River Bend nuclear plant. Higher spending for independent coordinator of transmission and fossil outage scope and schedule differences also contributed. Higher income tax expense is due primarily to the absence in the current quarter of items that reduced tax expense in second quarter 2006 including the effects of flow-through income tax accounting in Arkansas and the resolution of tax audit issues. Higher interest expense is due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for hurricanes Katrina and Rita, common stock repurchases and funding the Palisades acquisition. In addition, second quarter 2007 earnings were lower compared to one year ago due to the effects of weather which was essentially normal in the current period compared to warmer-than-normal weather in 2006.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in second quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 1 percent compared to second quarter 2006.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 3 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of 1 percent in second quarter 2007 compared to the same period a year ago.
The increase in the residential segment reflects continued economic recovery in the storm-affected regions that were still experiencing the effects of the 2005 storms in the first half of 2006. The quarter-over-quarter increase in the commercial and industrial sectors reflects a similar pattern in these sectors from the effect of storms. The industrial sector continues to realize some recovery in the refinery and chemical segments, with the latter benefiting from strong export markets. However, continued reduced spot sales to cogeneration customers served to offset a portion of the increase in the industrial sector on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
(a
) Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
 
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.54 per share on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2007, compared to $0.30 in second quarter 2006 for as-reported and operational earnings. The improved results in second quarter 2007 resulted from increased revenues from pricing and the production available from Palisades, acquired on April 11, 2007. Partially offsetting this increase was reduced production as a result of refueling outages in second quarter 2007 at Vermont Yankee and Pilgrim, and a 24-day unplanned outage at Indian Point 3. There was one refueling outage in second quarter 2006.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
 
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position, including the Palisades acquisition which closed in early April 2007, is 96%, 88%, and 70% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $48, $54 and $58, for 2007, 2008, and 2009, respectively. Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business recorded earnings of $0.19 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2007 compared to earnings of $0.03 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2006. The higher results reflect lower income tax expense due to the resolution of tax audit issues.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2007 in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2006 actual results to compute the 2007 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a reasonable band is created around the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. When initially established, earnings guidance for 2007 excluded ENOI given the uncertainty as it worked through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. While incorporating ENOI results in operational earnings now creates upside to the calculated guidance midpoint, when considered with other year-to-date outcomes, the current earnings guidance range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share continues to be appropriate. Earnings guidance for 2007 is detailed in Table 7 below.
Key assumptions, established in October 2006, supporting 2007 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of just under 2%
Increased revenue associated with storm and non-storm rate requests, partially offset by declining wholesale revenues, among others
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to effects of wage and other inflation and increased insurance premiums
Increased interest expense primarily from securitization debt and Palisades financing
Entergy Nuclear
Incremental earnings of $0.20 total for Palisades acquisition, assuming second quarter close; Palisades' contributions to Entergy Nuclear's 2007 metrics are factored in the assumptions that follow
38 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 92% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 3, Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee, all in Spring 2007, and the initial refueling outage at Palisades, in Fall 2007
95% energy sold under existing contracts; 5% sold into the spot market
$49/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published forward market prices in October 2006
85% capacity sold under existing contracts; 15% sold in spot market
$1.60 per kW per month average capacity-only contract price; $3.00 per kW per month unsold capacity based on market prices in October 2006
$21.25/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting wage and other inflation; $20.50/MWh production cost
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased losses
Special Items
Absence of 2006 recognition of gain contingency associated with receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of Entergy-Koch Trading and related tax benefits from liquidation of the holding company that owned Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP
Absence of 2006 effect of write-off of capital losses at Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Share Repurchase Program
2007 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 206 million; excludes effect of the new $1.5 billion share repurchase program
(f) Updated January 2007 to reflect 2006 final results.
Earnings guidance for 2007 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2007 results for Utility, Parent & Other. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2007. Estimated annual impacts shown in the Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
 
V.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to its owners as measured by total shareholder return. Entergy believes top-quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, improving returns on invested capital, maintaining investment grade credit quality and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2007 through 2009. Entergy expects to have $0.5 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. The table has been updated in the second quarter to incorporate a moderate improvement in cash flow, including Entergy New Orleans projections, revised cost estimates associated with portfolio transformation initiatives (such as Little Gypsy repowering project, and GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy project development agreement), and the dividend increase approved by Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors, along with associated effects on debt capacity. Cash flow from operations includes storm cost recovery anticipated from a combination of insurance, rate relief, and securitization; these amounts are applied consistent with regulatory filings and other agreements reached with governmental agencies under which benefits inure to ratepayers. Capital structure changes include the $1.5 billion share repurchase program announced in January 2007, and beyond the July 2007 dividend increase, an assumed rate of common stock dividend growth consistent with top quartile growth in our industry, or approximately 5 percent annually. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities. Finally, sources of cash include debt that Entergy believes it could issue i n association with new investments while maintaining credit quality consistent with BBB credit rating. The amount of additional debt could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment.
VI.
Appendices
Six appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current quarter.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix C provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix D provides a summary schedule of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix E provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix F provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
Appendices A-1 and A-2 provide details of second quarter and year-to-date 2007 vs. 2006 earnings variance analysis for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Net revenue increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear due to higher pricing and additional production from Palisades which was acquired during the quarter.
Income taxes-other increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to the absence in the current periods of benefits recorded in connection with flow through income tax accounting and the favorable resolution of a tax audit issue, both of which occurred in second quarter 2006.
Income taxes-other decreased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to the favorable resolution of tax audit issues.
Interest expense and other charges increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher borrowings in connection with financing storm restoration costs, common stock repurchases, and funding the Palisades acquisition.
Reflects the absence in the quarter and year-to-date periods of 2006 results of discontinued retail business operations, including the gain on the sale of this business in second quarter 2006.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher distribution, transmission and fossil spending, reflecting a return to more normal maintenance work compared to post-storm restoration work last year. In addition, higher NRC fees, an unplanned River Bend outage, higher spending for independent coordinator of transmission, and fossil outage scope and schedule differences also contributed to the increases for the quarter and year-to-date periods.
Net revenue increased due primarily to sales growth.
Interest and dividend income increased in the year-to-date period due primarily to higher earnings on Entergy Nuclear's decommissioning trusts.
Taxes other than income taxes increased due primarily to a regulatory requirement for Entergy Arkansas, Inc., effective in third quarter 2006, whereby franchise tax collections are recorded in revenue with a corresponding increase in taxes other than income taxes.
Depreciation/amortization expense increased due to higher levels of plant in service compared to 2006.
 
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix B provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
Appendix C-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix C-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix F-1.
(r) Data has not been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007.
 
Data for 1Q07, 2Q07 and 07YTD reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI and all other periods are not restated for this effect.
Data has been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Restated to reflect MWh billed as the denominator in the calculation.
Restated data to reflect moving purchased power from production costs to non-fuel O&M.
Appendix D: Planned Capital Expenditures
Appendix D includes revised second quarter cost estimates for portfolio transformation. Entergy's capital plan from 2007 through 2009 anticipates $5.6 billion for investment including roughly $2.7 billion of maintenance capital. The remaining $2.9 billion is for specific investments such as the Palisades and Calcasieu acquisitions and Little Gypsy repowering, GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy project development agreement, transmission upgrades, dry cask storage and nuclear license renewal projects, environmental compliance spending, potential NYPA value sharing costs or other initiatives. Significant items not included in this table are costs associated with the potential inter-connection between Entergy Gulf States-TX and ERCOT (up to approximately $1 billion), and the potential replacement of steam generators at Entergy's Waterford 3 nuclear unit. In addition, only minimal amounts for potential new nuclear development at the Grand Gulf and River Bend sites at the Utility are included in the below expenditures.
Appendix E provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
Appendices F-1 and F-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Data for 1Q07 and 2Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI and all other periods are not restated for this effect.
 
Data for 1Q07 and 2Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI and all other periods are not restated for this effect.
In this release, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause the actual results to differ materially than the forward-looking information provided. These factors are discussed in more detail in Entergy Corporation's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K including (a) Forward-Looking Information, (b) Item 1A. Risk Factors, and (c) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis and subsequent SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113  
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported second quarter 2007 as-reported earnings of $ million, or $1.32 per share, compared with $281.8 million, or $1.33 per share, for second quarter 2006. On an operational basis, Entergy's second quarter 2007 earnings were $267.6 million, or $1.32 per share, compared with $258.0 million, or $1.22 per share, in second quarter 2006.
267.6
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors yesterday evening declared a quarterly dividend of 75 cents per common share payable Sept.1 to stockholders of record on Aug. 10.
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance, income tax and interest expense and the effect of essentially normal weather compared to warmer-than-normal weather in 2006.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing and production from the newly acquired Palisades plant, partially offset by the effect of reduced production due to planned and unplanned outages.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported higher results due to lower income taxes.
"Efforts to move ahead with the transformation of our asset portfolio resulted in marked success this quarter," said . "We reached agreement with a key business partner to preserve the new nuclear option while also taking important steps in advancing value-creating opportunities at both the regulated utility and non-utility nuclear businesses."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy New Orleans, Inc. emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
Entergy realized marked success for the Utility's portfolio transformation strategy by seeking regulatory approval for Entergy Louisiana, LLC's Little Gypsy repowering project and signing a project development agreement with GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy to ensure timely delivery of schedule-critical parts to preserve Entergy's nuclear new build opportunity.
Entergy Nuclear, in an effort to simplify and centralize the structure of its non-utility nuclear business, filed for approval from the NRC for the indirect transfer of control of operating licenses which, if granted, could facilitate new stand-alone debt financing of up to $5.5 billion at that business.
Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors approved the first increase in its quarterly common stock dividend since October 2004.
In second quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other reported earnings of $120.6 million, or 59 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases, compared to $213.1 million, or $1.00 per share, in as-reported earnings and $189.3 million, or 89 cents per share, in operational earnings for second quarter 2006. Earnings for 2007 include earnings for Entergy New Orleans, Inc. of $11.8 million, or six cents per share, which is being reflected in operational earnings with the company's emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Entergy New Orleans, Inc. emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during second quarter 2007, and consistent with applicable consolidation accounting and reporting standards, Entergy has re-consolidated Entergy New Orleans, Inc. for financial reporting purposes effective this quarter and retroactive to Jan. 1, 2007.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2007 primarily reflect higher operation and maintenance expense, higher income tax expense and higher interest expense. Higher operation and maintenance expense is due primarily to increased spending in distribution, transmission and fossil associated with a return to normal maintenance activity consistent with pre-storm levels, and increased spending at nuclear for higher NRC fees and an unplanned outage at the River Bend nuclear plant. Higher spending for independent coordinator of transmission and fossil outage scope and schedule differences also contributed. Higher income tax expense is due primarily to the absence in the current quarter of items that reduced tax expense in second quarter 2006 including the effects of flow-through income tax accounting in Arkansas and the resolution of tax audit issues. Higher interest expense is due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for hurricanes Katrina and Rita, common stock repurchases and funding the Palisades acquisition. In addition, second quarter 2007 earnings were lower compared to one year ago due to the effects of weather which was essentially normal in the current period compared to warmer-than-normal weather in 2006.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in second quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up one percent compared to second quarter 2006. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up three percent. Industrial sales experienced an increase of one percent in second quarter 2007, compared to the same period a year ago.
The increase in the residential segment reflects continued economic recovery in the storm-affected regions that were still experiencing the effects of the 2005 storms in the first half of 2006. The quarter-over- quarter increase in the commercial and industrial sectors reflects a similar pattern in these sectors from the effect of storms. The industrial sector continues to realize some recovery in the refinery and chemical segments, with the latter benefiting from strong export markets. However, continued reduced spot sales to cogeneration customers served to offset a portion of the increase in the industrial sector on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Entergy Nuclear earned $108.7 million, or 54 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2007, compared to $63.4 million, or 30 cents per share, in second quarter 2006 for as-reported and operational earnings. The improved results in second quarter 2007 resulted from increased revenues from pricing and the production available from Palisades, acquired on April 11. Partially offsetting this increase was reduced production as a result of refueling outages in second quarter 2007 at Vermont Yankee and Pilgrim, and a 24-day unplanned outage at Indian Point 3. There was one refueling outage in second quarter 2006.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business recorded earnings of $38.3 million, or 19 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2007 compared to earnings of $5.3 million, or three cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2006. The higher results reflect lower income tax expense due to the resolution of tax audit issues.
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2007 in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2006 actual results to compute the 2007 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a reasonable band is created around the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. When initially established, earnings guidance for 2007 excluded Entergy New Orleans, Inc. given the uncertainty as it worked through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. While incorporating Entergy New Orleans, Inc. results in operational earnings now creates upside to the calculated guidance midpoint, when considered with other year-to-date outcomes, the current earnings guidance range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share continues to be appropriate.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,500 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated July 31, 2007, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this release, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause the actual results to differ materially than the forward-looking information provided. These factors are discussed in more detail in Entergy Corporation's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K including (a) Forward-Looking Information, (b) Item 1A. Risk Factors, and (c) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis and subsequent SEC filings.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items". Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ong oing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
In addition, the Earnings Releases use, and Exhibit 99.1 presents, 2006 pro forma financial statements that have been adjusted to reflect Entergy New Orleans on a consolidated basis. This is a non-GAAP presentation that management believes is useful to investors in comparing Entergy's 2007 operating performance and financial position to Entergy's 2006 operating performance and financial position.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Earnings Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


