FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20071105062012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 5, 2007, Entergy Corporation ("Entergy") issued two public announcements, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 5, 2007, Entergy issued the Releases, which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
EEI Presentation
On November 6, 2007, Entergy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Wayne Leonard, will make a presentation at the Edison Electric Institute's Financial Conference. A copy of Mr. Leonard's presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Separation of Non-Utility Nuclear Business
On November 5, 2007, Entergy announced that its Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of its Non-Utility Nuclear business from Entergy into a separate publicly-traded company. The spin-off is expected to be tax-free to Entergy and its shareholders. Entergy is targeting the third quarter of 2008 for completion of the spin-off. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval of the Entergy Board of Directors.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
By: Theodore H. Bunting, Jr. Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: November 5, 2007
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
November 5, 2007
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported third quarter 2007 earnings of $2.30 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2007
Utility, Parent & Other had higher earnings from the net positive effect of recent regulatory actions and higher wholesale revenue.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing and production from the newly-acquired Palisades plant and the positive effect of a lower effective tax rate in the current period.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported results that were essentially unchanged from the comparable period in 2006.
"The Board of Directors' decision to pursue a plan to spin off the non-utility nuclear business to shareholders reflects the same commitment to shareholder value that has produced the highest return in the industry over the last nine years," said . "In addition, as reflected in earnings guidance for 2008, the company remains on track to realize its aspiration of growing earnings $1 per share per year."
J. Wayne Leonard Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture with the spun-off entity.
Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States-Louisiana received an order from the Louisiana Public Service Commission authorizing recovery for the balance of storm restoration costs, storm reserves and securitization thereof.
Entergy was selected, for the sixth consecutive year, as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index - World, the only U.S. utility to be so honored.
 
Entergy's senior management will be available on November 5-6, 2007 at the Edison Electric Institute's Financial Conference to discuss quarterly results and other Entergy business matters with investors. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Wayne Leonard will also provide a presentation on November 6, 2007 expected to start at approximately 11:15 a.m. EST. A live audio webcast of the presentation and presentation slides can be accessed via the Investor Relations section of Entergy's corporate Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the webcast will be available later that day and for 30 days thereafter via Entergy's corporate Web site.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter 2007 versus 2006, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other had higher earnings from the net positive effect of recent regulatory actions and higher wholesale revenue, partially offset by higher interest expense. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing and additional production available from the recently acquired Palisades plant and the effect of a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by the effect of reduced production due to additional planned and unplanned outages. Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported results essentially unchanged from results in third quarter 2006. Entergy's results for the current period also reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the company's share repurchase program.
Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during second quarter 2007 and consistent with applicable consolidation accounting and reporting standards Entergy re-consolidated ENOI for financial reporting purposes effective for second quarter and retroactive to January 1, 2007. While, in accordance with GAAP, 2006 will not be re-consolidated, to facilitate comparisons for earnings release purposes Pro-forma 2006 results re-consolidating ENOI will be reported. Reconciliations of this 2006 non-GAAP view to the GAAP view can be found in Appendix F.
Detailed earnings variance analyses are included in appendices A-1 and A-2 to this release. In addition, appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2007 was $663 million compared to $793 million in third quarter 2006. The decrease was due primarily to the following items:
Reduced collections of deferred fuel recovery in the current quarter totaling $259 million.
Higher income tax payments for the Entergy system companies totaling $86 million.
Higher cash payments associated with refueling outages at Entergy Nuclear of $33 million.
The above items were partially offset by higher net revenues at Entergy Nuclear of $159 million and lower pension funding payments of $96 million at Utility, Parent and Other.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In third quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $1.52 per share on as-reported and operational bases, compared to $1.35 per share in as-reported earnings and $1.32 per share of operational earnings in third quarter 2006. Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2007 reflect the net positive effect of recent regulatory actions and higher wholesale revenue, as well as the positive effect of accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program. Partially offsetting these factors was higher interest expense associated with debt incurred to fund common stock repurchases and the Palisades acquisition, as well as interest on securitization bonds and the resumption of interest payments in September 2007 at Entergy New Orleans. Weather in the current period was comparable to the warmer-than-normal weather experienced in third quarter 2006.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in third quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up less than 1 percent compared to third quarter 2006.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 2 percent.
Industrial sales experienced a decrease of 2 percent in third quarter 2007 compared to the same period a year ago.
The residential sales segment increased less than 1 percent quarter to quarter; however, the latter part of third quarter 2007 reflected stronger sales and an improving regional economy. The quarter-over-quarter increase in the commercial and governmental sectors reflects continued recovery and ongoing growth in these sectors, while the decline in the industrial sector for the quarter reflects the loss of a customer to cogeneration, which was anticipated earlier in the year, and lower spot sales to cogeneration customers. Partially offsetting these factors was higher than expected utilization in the refining segment as well as a rebound in the chemical segment which benefited from strong export markets.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
(a
)
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
 
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.80 per share on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2007, compared to $0.50 in third quarter 2006 for as-reported and operational earnings. The improved results in third quarter 2007 came from increased revenues from pricing and the production available from Palisades, acquired in the second quarter of this year, and the positive effect of a lower effective tax rate in the current period. Partially offsetting this increase was reduced production as a result of additional unplanned outage time at Vermont Yankee. In addition, Palisades entered a planned refueling outage on September 9, 2007. There were no refueling outages in third quarter 2006.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position is 95%, 91%, and 77% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $47, $54 and $60, for 2007, 2008, and 2009, respectively. Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business recorded a loss of $(0.02) per share on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2007 which equaled results on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2006.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2007 in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2006 actual results to compute the 2007 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each variable, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. When initially established, earnings guidance for 2007 excluded ENOI given the uncertainty as it worked through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. While incorporating ENOI results in operational earnings now creates upside to the calculated guidance midpoint, when considered with other year-to-date outcomes, the current earnings guidance range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share continues to be most likely. Earnings guidance for 2007 is detailed in Table 7 below.
Key assumptions, established in October 2006, supporting 2007 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of just under 2%
Increased revenue associated with storm and non-storm rate requests, partially offset by declining wholesale revenues, among others
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to effects of wage and other inflation and increased insurance premiums
Increased interest expense primarily from securitization debt and Palisades financing
Entergy Nuclear
Incremental earnings of $0.20 total for Palisades acquisition, assuming second quarter close; Palisades' contributions to Entergy Nuclear's 2007 metrics are factored in the assumptions that follow
38 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 92% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 3, Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee, all in Spring 2007, and the initial refueling outage at Palisades, in Fall 2007
95% energy sold under existing contracts; 5% sold into the spot market
$49/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published forward market prices in October 2006
85% capacity sold under existing contracts; 15% sold in spot market
$1.60 per kW per month average capacity-only contract price; $3.00 per kW per month unsold capacity based on market prices in October 2006
$21.25/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting wage and other inflation; $20.50/MWh production cost
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased losses
Special Items
Absence of 2006 recognition of gain contingency associated with receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of Entergy-Koch Trading and related tax benefits from liquidation of the holding company that owned Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP
Absence of 2006 effect of write-off of capital losses at Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Share Repurchase Program
2007 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 206 million; excludes effect of the new $1.5 billion share repurchase program
(f) Updated January 2007 to reflect 2006 final results.
2008 Guidance
Entergy is initiating 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business as usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below. As is the case for 2007, year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2007 guidance mid-point estimates to compute the 2008 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. 2008 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 8 below.
Key assumptions supporting 2008 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of roughly 2%
Increased revenue associated with rate actions
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to effects of wage and other inflation
Increased depreciation associated with rate base growth
Decreased interest expense as a result of receiving proceeds from Louisiana storm securitization, net of effects on interest expense of other financings
Decreased other income due primarily to absence of 2007 carrying costs reflected for storm settlements
Entergy Nuclear
41 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 in Spring 2008, and FitzPatrick and Vermont Yankee, both in Fall 2008
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market
$54/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published market prices in October 2007
$22.10/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense/purchased power with increase primarily due to full year of Palisades operation (acquired mid April 2007); $21.30/MWh production cost
Increased depreciation due to continued investment in nuclear fleet and full year of Palisades operation
 
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Continued losses based on limited market opportunities
Share Repurchase Program
2008 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 197 million
Earnings guidance for 2008 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 9. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2008 results for Utility, Parent & Other. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2008. Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 9 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
 
V.
Business Separation and Financial Aspirations
On November 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. SpinCo, the term used to identify the new company yet to be named, will be a new independent publicly traded company. In addition, SpinCo and Entergy Corporation intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
New Business Structure
Once the transaction is complete, Entergy Corporation's shareholders will own 100 percent of the common equity in both SpinCo and Entergy. SpinCo's business is expected to be comprised of the non-utility nuclear assets, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station in Plymouth, Mass., the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants in Oswego and Buchanan, N.Y., respectively, the Palisades plant in Covert, Mich., and the Vermont Yankee plant in Vernon, Vt., and a power marketing operation. Entergy Corporation's business will be comprised of the current five regulated utility operating subsidiaries, System Energy Resources, Inc., the related services subsidiaries System Fuels, Inc., Entergy Operations, Inc. and Entergy Services, Inc., and the remaining Entergy subsidiaries. The newly created joint venture is expected to operate the nuclear assets owned by SpinCo. The joint venture is also expected to offer nuclear services to third parties, including decommissioning, plant relicensing and plant operations for the Cooper Nuclear Station and others.
The joint venture operating structure for SpinCo ensures that the core nuclear operations expertise currently in place at each of the non-utility nuclear plants will remain after the spin-off.  Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. will supplement its application filed July 30, 2007 with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, seeking indirect transfer of control of the operating licenses for the non-utility nuclear fleet, to incorporate the planned business separation. Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of the non-utility nuclear plants, would remain the operator of the plants after the separation.  Entergy Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of Entergy's utility nuclear plants, will also remain in place as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy and will continue to be the operator of the utility nuclear plants.  The decision to retain the existing operators for the nuclear stations reflects Entergy's commitment to maintaining safety, security and oper ational excellence.
Leadership Team
The Entergy Board of Directors has approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles. The Joint Venture Board of Directors will be comprised of equal membership from both Entergy and SpinCo. Additional details on the structure and leadership will be made available in the coming months. Those assuming new roles or additional responsibilities include:
Entergy Corporation:
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mark Savoff
Nearly 30 years of industry experience, including nuclear leadership roles at GE Power Systems and Entergy
Currently serves as Entergy's executive vice president of operations with responsibility for the business operations of system planning, performance management, safety and environment, weekly procurement process, utility group regulatory support, fossil generation and transmission organizations
Previously served as vice president & corporate officer of GE Power Systems, Nuclear Energy and general manager, GE Power Systems, Nuclear Energy where he led the implementation of third party nuclear fuel joint venture and also led the turnaround of GE's global nuclear services business
SpinCo:
Non-Executive Chairman Donald C. Hintz
Over 30 years of experience in the electric utility industry, including nearly 20 years as a nuclear executive with Entergy
Elected to the Entergy Board of Directors after retiring as president of Entergy in 2004, currently serves as Chairman of the nuclear committee for the Entergy Board of Directors
Received the 2004 Platts Global Energy Lifetime Achievement Award for his long and varied career of service, creativity and insight, and contribution to the development and future of the energy industry
Currently serves as president of the American Nuclear Society
Chief Executive Officer Richard Smith
More than 30 years of experience in the electric utility industry, including over 10 years of experience as an executive officer
Currently serves as Entergy's president and chief operating officer with responsibility for Entergy Nuclear and Entergy Operations, which includes fossil plant operations, transmission operations, system environmental and safety, system planning, compliance and performance management
Previously served as president of Cinergy Resources, Inc. where he managed and directed Cinergy's non-regulated retail gas supply business and also developed Cinergy's non-regulated retail electric supply business in anticipation of retail open access in Ohio
Chief Operating Officer John R. McGaha
Nearly 30 years of experience with Entergy's nuclear program
Currently serves as president of planning, development and oversight for Entergy Nuclear with responsibility for planning and innovation; business development and new plant activities; and oversight
Previously served as president, Entergy Nuclear South with responsibility for Entergy's five nuclear units in its retail electric service area
Retired from the U.S. Naval Reserve with the rank of captain
Joint Venture:
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer Michael R. Kansler
Nearly 30 years of experience in the nuclear industry
Currently serves as president and chief nuclear officer, Entergy Nuclear with responsibility for all of Entergy's nuclear plants located throughout New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, Michigan, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas, as well as the company's management of the Cooper Nuclear Station for the State of Nebraska
Previously served as vice president, nuclear services, Virginia Power (now Dominion Resources) with responsibility for the operation of Surry and North Anna, twin-unit nuclear power stations
Chief Operating Officer John Herron
Nearly 30 years of experience in the nuclear industry
Currently serves as Entergy senior vice president of nuclear operations with responsibility for the operational side of nuclear fleet management
Previously served as chief operating officer of Entergy Nuclear Northeast overseeing the day-to-day operations of all Entergy non-utility nuclear plants, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station, the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants, and the Vermont Yankee power plant.
Executive management at Entergy that remains unchanged includes:
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Wayne Leonard
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leo Denault
Group President Utility Operations Gary Taylor
Executive Vice President of External Affairs Curt Hebert
Executive Vice President and General Counsel Robert Sloan
Chief Nuclear Officer Michael Kansler
"While the operating results of the non-utility nuclear plants have contributed substantially to Entergy's profitability, the full value of the investment has not and is unlikely to be recognized or realized embedded in a 'utility' which has a separate set of investment and credit needs," said Leonard. "Over the last nine years, shareholders have put considerable capital at risk as we started and grew this business. The planned transaction provides shareholders a first-of-its-kind, pure play on emission-free nuclear power and on the environmental needs as the states, the nation and the world move inexorably toward a less carbon intensive future."
"Shareholders have been patient, and the proposed structure provides a very real opportunity for full value realization while maintaining the safety, security, and operational excellence of our entire (utility and non-utility) nuclear fleet," Leonard said. "Moreover, good corporate governance dictates the decision to buy, hold or sell this uniquely positioned segment of our business and this industry be available to shareholders to execute consistent with their individual points of view. In the spin-off, shareholders will receive a highly-liquid publicly-traded stock that we believe will be better recognized for its innate and scarcity value."
Brief Overview of Each Business
After completion of the business separation, Entergy Corporation will consist of the current five electric utility subsidiaries in four contiguous states with generating capacity of more than 22,000 megawatts and 15,000 miles of transmission lines. Entergy will be a customer service-focused electric and gas utility with a unique growth opportunity through its portfolio transformation strategy that benefits customers. The company will deliver electricity to 2.6 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas and will remain headquartered in New Orleans, LA.
SpinCo is expected to own nearly 5,000 megawatts of nuclear generation, most of which is located in the northeastern United States. This location is a very capacity constrained region both in terms of electricity generating capacity and its primary fuel input, natural gas. These factors result in the highest average regional power prices in the United States both today and expected into the future through at least 2020. SpinCo will be uniquely positioned as the only pure-play, emission-free nuclear generating company in the United States. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
The new joint venture, is expected to be owned 50 percent each by Entergy and SpinCo, and expected to have operating responsibility for SpinCo's nuclear fleet and to continue to supply contracted services currently being provided to the Nebraska Public Power District for the Cooper Nuclear Station.
As a premier nuclear operator, the joint venture will have broad nuclear experience building and operating boiling and pressurized water reactor technologies. The joint venture is expected to be uniquely positioned to grow through offerings of nuclear operating expertise, as well as ancillary nuclear services to third parties, including plant decommissioning and relicensing.
Financial Aspirations
The companies will continue to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return. The companies believe top-quartile shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, delivering returns at or above the risk-adjusted cost of capital, maintaining credit quality and flexibility, and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirements.
Financial aspirations currently in place for Entergy today can be tailored to each of the businesses going forward. Financial aspirations for the period 2007 through 2012 include the following:
Top-quartile total shareholder return:
Entergy: 6-8% annual earnings per share growth, a 70 to 75% dividend payout ratio target, and capacity for a new share repurchase program targeted at $2.5 billion commencing following completion of spin-off
SpinCo: $2 billion in earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA), a non-GAAP financial measure defined in Appendix E, for the existing non-utility nuclear fleet portfolio by 2012, assuming an average power price on open positions of roughly $95/MWh, generating cash flow for acquisitions and/or distributions through share repurchases in the range of $0.5 billion to $1 billion annually
Credit quality and flexibility to manage risk and act on opportunities
Entergy: investment grade credit and a business position upgrade
SpinCo: strong merchant credit, relative to others (subject to market terms and conditions, SpinCo expects to execute roughly $4.5 billion of debt financing)
The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.
Transaction Timing and Other Details
Entergy is targeting third quarter 2008 as the effective date for the spin-off and joint venture transactions to be completed and expects the transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders. The transactions are subject to various approvals. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the subsequent approval of the Entergy Board of Directors. In addition, as Entergy pursues completion of the separation and establishment of the joint venture, Entergy will continue to consider, in conjunction with its financial advisors, possible modifications to and variations upon the transaction structure, including a sponsored spin-off, a partial initial public offering preceding the spin-off or the addition of a third party joint venture partner. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are serving as Entergy's financial advisors in this process.
 
VI.
Appendices
Six appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current quarter.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix C provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix D provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix E provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix F provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendices A-1 and A-2 provide details of third quarter and year-to-date 2007 vs. 2006 earnings variance analysis for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Net revenue increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to the effect of recent regulatory actions, as well as higher wholesale revenue
and sales volume.
revenues at Entergy Nuclear due to higher pricing and additional production from Palisades which was acquired in April 2007.
Net revenue increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to higher
Reflects accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program.
Interest and dividend income increased in the quarter and year-to-date periods due primarily to carrying charges recorded in connection with storm recovery settlements.
Decreases in the quarter and year-to-date periods are due primarily to a change in New York state tax law resulting in a lower effective tax at Entergy Nuclear. The year-to-date decrease also reflects the favorable resolution of tax audit issues.
Reflects the effect of a regulatory requirement for Entergy Arkansas, Inc., eff ective third quarter 2006, whereby franchise tax collections are recorded in revenue with a corresponding increase in taxes other than income taxes. Third quarter 2006 included a true-up for this change.
The decrease reflects the absence in the current period of a reduction recorded to the decommissioning liability in 2006 at Entergy Nuclear to reflect changes on probability of life extension.
Increases in the quarter and year-to-date periods are due primarily to higher borrowings in connection with common stock repurchases and funding the Palisades acquisition, and interest associated with securitization bonds and resumption of interest payments at Entergy New Orleans.
The increases in the quarter and year-to-date are due primarily to the write-off of minimum customer bill credits at Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana. Adding to the year-to-date increase are higher distribution, transmission and fossil spending, reflecting a return to normal post-storm maintenance work. In addition, an un planned River Bend outage, higher NRC fees, higher property insurance premiums, higher spending for independent coordinator of transmission, and fossil outage scope and schedule differences contributed to the increase for the year-to-date period.
The increase primarily reflects expenses associated with Palisades which was acquired in April 2007.
The increase primarily reflects higher earnings on Entergy Nuclear's decommissioning trusts.
The increase is due primarily to absence of the favorable resolution of a tax audit issue in 2006 and lower benefits associated with flow through items.
Reflects the absence of results of discontinued retail business operations, including the gain on the sale of this business in second quarter 2006.
 
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix B provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
Appendix C-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix C-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix F-1.
(u) Data has not been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007.
 
Data for 1Q07, 2Q07, 3Q07 and 07YTD reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. All other periods are not restated for this effect.
Data has been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Restated to reflect MWh billed as the denominator in the calculation.
Restated data to reflect moving purchased power from production costs to non-fuel O&M.
Appendix D: Planned Capital Expenditures
- - Preliminary
Entergy's capital plan from 2008 through 2010 anticipates $5.9 billion for investment, including roughly $2.7 billion of maintenance capital. The remaining $3.2 billion is for specific investments such as the Utility's portfolio transformation strategy (i.e., Calcasieu and Ouachita acquisitions and Little Gypsy repowering), the steam generator replacement at Entergy's Waterford 3 nuclear unit, environmental compliance spending, transmission upgrades, business function relocation, dry cask storage and nuclear license renewal projects, NYPA value sharing and other initiatives. A potentially significant item not included in these estimates is the cost associated with the proposed inter-connection between Entergy Gulf States-TX and ERCOT (up to approximately $1 billion). In addition, only minimal amounts for potential new nuclear development at the Grand Gulf and River Bend sites at the Utility are included. Entergy will provide 2008 through 2010 details on planned capital expenditures in its fourth quarter earnings release and the 2007 Form 10-K. Included below are preliminary estimates of projected capital expenditures by business segments and the major categories of investing capital included in these expenditures.
Appendix E provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
Appendices F-1 and F-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure. Appendices F-3 through F-9 provide reconciliations of 2006 pro-forma financial statements to 2006 GAAP financial statements due to the reconsolidation of Entergy New Orleans.
Data for 1Q07, 2Q07 and 3Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. All other periods are not restated for this effect.
 
Data for 1Q07, 2Q07 and 3Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. All other periods are not restated for this effect.
 
 
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergy's Annual Report on Form 10-K under (i) Forward-Looking Statements, (ii) Item 1A. Risk Factors, (iii) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis, and (iv) Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 5, 2007
and (b) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt incurred by SpinCo and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forwa rd-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NEWS RELEASE
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported third quarter 2007 as-reported earnings of $461.2 million, or $2.30 per share, compared with $388.9 million, or $1.83 per share, for third quarter 2006. On an operational basis, Entergy's third quarter 2007 earnings were $461.2 million, or $2.30 per share, compared with $382.6 million, or $1.80 per share, in third quarter 2006.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other had higher earnings from the net positive effect of recent regulatory actions and higher wholesale revenue.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing and production from the newly-acquired Palisades plant and the positive effect of a lower effective tax rate in the current period.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported results that were essentially unchanged from the comparable period in 2006.
"The Board of Directors' decision to pursue a plan to spin off the non-utility nuclear business to shareholders reflects the same commitment to shareholder value that has produced the highest return in the industry over the last nine years," said . "In addition, as reflected in earnings guidance for 2008, the company remains on track to realize its aspiration of growing earnings $1 per share per year."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture with the spun-off entity.
Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States-Louisiana received an order from the Louisiana Public Service Commission authorizing recovery for the balance of storm restoration costs, storm reserves and securitization.
Entergy was selected, for the sixth consecutive year, as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index - World, the only U.S. utility to be so honored.
Entergy's senior management will be available on Nov. 5-6, 2007 at the Edison Electric Institute's Financial Conference to discuss quarterly results and other Entergy business matters with investors. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Wayne Leonard will also provide a presentation on Nov. 6, 2007 expected to start at approximately 11:15 a.m. EST. A live audio webcast of the presentation and presentation slides can be accessed via the Investor Relations section of Entergy's corporate Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the webcast will be available later that day and for 30 days thereafter via Entergy's corporate Web site.
In third quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other reported earnings of $305.7 million, or $1.52 per share, on as-reported and operational bases, compared to $285.9 million, or $1.35 per share, in as-reported earnings and $279.6 million, or $1.32 per share, in operational earnings for third quarter 2006. Entergy New Orleans, Inc. emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during second quarter 2007, and consistent with applicable consolidation accounting and reporting standards, Entergy re-consolidated Entergy New Orleans, Inc. for financial reporting purposes effective for second quarter 2007 and retroactive to Jan. 1, 2007.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2007 reflect the net positive effect of recent regulatory actions and higher wholesale revenue, as well as the positive effect of accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program. Partially offsetting these factors was higher interest expense associated with debt incurred to fund common stock repurchases and the Palisades acquisition, as well as interest on securitization bonds and the resumption of interest payments in September 2007 at Entergy New Orleans. Weather in the current period was comparable to the warmer-than-normal weather experienced in third quarter 2006.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in third quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up less than one percent compared to third quarter 2006. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up two percent. Industrial sales experienced a decrease of two percent in third quarter 2007, compared to the same period a year ago.
The residential sales segment increased less than one percent quarter to quarter; however, the latter part of third quarter 2007 reflected stronger sales and an improving regional economy. The quarter-over-quarter increase in the commercial and governmental sectors reflects continued recovery and ongoing growth in these sectors, while the decline in the industrial sector for the quarter reflects the loss of a customer to cogeneration, which was anticipated earlier in the year, and lower spot sales to cogeneration customers. Partially offsetting these factors was higher than expected utilization in the refining segment as well as a rebound in the chemical segment which benefited from strong export markets.
Entergy Nuclear earned $160.9 million, or 80 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2007, compared to $106.9 million, or 50 cents per share, in third quarter 2006 for as-reported and operational earnings. The improved results in third quarter 2007 came from increased revenues from pricing and the production available from Palisades, acquired in the second quarter of this year, and the positive effect of a lower tax rate in the current period. Partially offsetting this increase was reduced production as a result of additional unplanned outage time at Vermont Yankee. In addition, Palisades entered a planned refueling outage on Sept. 9, 2007. There were no refueling outages in third quarter 2006.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business recorded a loss of $5.5 million, or two cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2007 compared to a loss of $3.9 million, or two cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2006.
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2007 in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share. Entergy is initiating 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business-as-usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below.
On Nov. 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. SpinCo, the term used to identify the new company yet to be named, will be a new independent publicly-traded company. In addition, SpinCo and Entergy Corporation intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
Once the transaction is complete, Entergy Corporation's shareholders will own 100 percent of the common equity in both SpinCo and Entergy. SpinCo's business is expected to consist of the non-utility nuclear assets, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station in Plymouth, MassachusettsMass., the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants in Oswego and Buchanan, New N.Y.York, respectively, the Palisades plant in Covert, Mich., and the Vermont Yankee plant in Vernon, Vermont., and a power marketing operation. Entergy Corporation's business will consist of the current five regulated utility operating subsidiaries, System Energy Resources, Inc., the related services subsidiaries System Fuels, Inc., Entergy Operations, Inc. and Entergy Services, Inc., and the remaining Entergy subsidiaries. The newly-created joint venture is expected to operate the nuclear assets owned by SpinCo. The joint venture is also expected to offer nuclear services to third parties, including decommissioning, plant relicen sing and plant operations for the Cooper Nuclear Station and others.
The joint venture operating structure for SpinCo ensures that the core nuclear operations expertise currently in place at each of the non-utility nuclear plants will remain after the spin-off. Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. will supplement its application filed July 30, 2007 with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, seeking indirect transfer of control of the operating licenses for the non-utility nuclear fleet, to incorporate the planned business separation. Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of the non-utility nuclear plants, would remain the operator of the plants after the separation. Entergy Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of Entergy's utility nuclear plants, will also remain in place as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy and will continue to be the operator of the utility nuclear plants. The decision to retain the existing operators for the nuclear stations reflects Entergy's commitment to maintaining safety, security and operational excellence.
The Entergy Board of Directors has approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles. The Joint Venture Board of Directors will be comprised of equal membership from both Entergy and SpinCo. Additional details on the structure and leadership will be made available in the coming months. Those assuming new roles or additional responsibilities include:
Entergy Corporation:
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mark Savoff
Nearly 30 years of industry experience, including nuclear leadership roles at GE Power Systems and Entergy
Currently serves as Entergy's executive vice president - operations with responsibility for the business operations of system planning, performance management, safety and environment, weekly procurement process, utility group regulatory support, fossil generation and transmission organizations
Previously served as vice president & corporate officer of GE Power Systems, Nuclear Energy and general manager, GE Power Systems, Nuclear Energy where he led the implementation of third-party nuclear fuel joint venture and also led the turnaround of GE's global nuclear services business
SpinCo:
Non-Executive Chairman Donald C. Hintz
Over 30 years of experience in the electric utility industry, including nearly 20 years as a nuclear executive with Entergy
Elected to the Entergy Board of Directors after retiring as president of Entergy in 2004, currently serves as chairman of the nuclear committee for the Entergy Board of Directors
Received the 2004 Platts Global Energy Lifetime Achievement Award for his long and varied career of service, creativity and insight, and contribution to the development and future of the energy industry
Currently serves as president of the American Nuclear Society
Chief Executive Officer Richard Smith
More than 30 years of experience in the electric utility industry, including over 10 years of experience as an executive officer
Currently serves as Entergy's president and chief operating officer with responsibility for Entergy Nuclear and Entergy Operations, which includes fossil plant operations, transmission operations, system environmental and safety, system planning, compliance and performance management
Previously served as president of Cinergy Resources, Inc. where he managed and directed Cinergy's non-regulated retail gas supply business and also developed Cinergy's non-regulated retail electric supply business in anticipation of retail open access in Ohio
Chief Operating Officer John R. McGaha
Nearly 30 years of experience with Entergy's nuclear program
Currently serves as president of planning, development and oversight for Entergy Nuclear with responsibility for planning and innovation, business development and new plant activities, and oversight
Previously served as president, Entergy Nuclear South with responsibility for Entergy's five nuclear units in its retail electric service area
Retired from the U.S. Naval Reserve with the rank of captain
Joint Venture:
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer Michael R. Kansler
Nearly 30 years of experience in the nuclear industry
Currently serves as president and chief nuclear officer, Entergy Nuclear, with responsibility for all of Entergy's nuclear plants located throughout New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, Michigan, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas, as well as the company's management of the Cooper Nuclear Station for the State of Nebraska
Previously served as vice president, nuclear services, Virginia Power (now Dominion Resources) with responsibility for the operation of Surry and North Anna, twin-unit nuclear power stations
Chief Operating Officer John Herron
Nearly 30 years of experience in the nuclear industry
Currently serves as Entergy's senior vice president of nuclear operations with responsibility for the operational side of nuclear fleet management
Previously served as chief operating officer of Entergy Nuclear Northeast overseeing the day-to-day operations of all Entergy non-utility nuclear plants, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station, the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants and the Vermont Yankee power plant
Executive management at Entergy that remains unchanged includes:
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Wayne Leonard
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leo Denault
Group President Utility Operations Gary Taylor
Executive Vice President of External Affairs Curt Hbert
Executive Vice President and General Counsel Robert Sloan
Chief Nuclear Officer Michael Kansler
"While the operating results of the non-utility nuclear plants have contributed substantially to Entergy's profitability, the full value of the investment has not and is unlikely to be recognized or realized embedded in a 'utility' which has a separate set of investment and credit needs," said Leonard. "Over the last nine years, shareholders have put considerable capital at risk as we started and grew this business. The planned transaction provides shareholders a first-of-its kind, pure play on emission-free nuclear power and on the environmental needs as the states, the nation and the world move inexorably toward a less carbon-intensive future.
"Shareholders have been patient, and the proposed structure provides a very real opportunity for full value realization while maintaining the safety, security, and operational excellence of our entire (utility and non-utility) nuclear fleet," Leonard said. "Moreover, good corporate governance dictates the decision to buy, hold or sell this uniquely positioned segment of our business and this industry be available to shareholders to execute consistent with their individual points of view. In the spin-off, shareholders will receive a highly-liquid publicly-traded stock that we believe will be better recognized for its innate and scarcity value."
After completion of the business separation, Entergy Corporation will consist of the current five electric utility subsidiaries in four contiguous states with generating capacity of more than 22,000 megawatts and 15,000 miles of transmission lines. Entergy will be a customer service-focused electric and gas utility with a unique growth opportunity through its portfolio transformation strategy that benefits customers. The company will deliver electricity to 2.6 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas and will remain headquartered in New Orleans, La.
SpinCo is expected to own nearly 5,000 megawatts of nuclear generation, most of which is located in the northeastern United States. This location is a very capacity-constrained region both in terms of electricity generating capacity and its primary fuel input, natural gas. These factors result in the highest average regional power prices in the United States both today and expected into the future through at least 2020. SpinCo will be uniquely positioned as the only pure-play, emission-free nuclear generating company in the United States. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
The new joint venture is expected to be owned 50 percent each by Entergy and SpinCo and is expected to have operating responsibility for SpinCo's nuclear fleet and to continue to supply contracted services currently being provided to the Nebraska Public Power District for the Cooper Nuclear Station. As a premier nuclear operator, the joint venture will have broad nuclear experience building and operating boiling and pressurized water reactor technologies. The joint venture is expected to be uniquely positioned to grow through offerings of nuclear operating expertise, as well as ancillary nuclear services to third parties, including plant decommissioning and relicensing. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
Entergy is targeting third quarter 2008 as the effective date for the spin-off and joint venture transactions to be completed and expects the transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders. The transactions are subject to various approvals. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the subsequent approval of the Entergy Board of Directors. In addition, as Entergy pursues completion of the separation and establishment of the joint venture, Entergy will continue to consider, in conjunction with its financial advisors, possible modifications to and variations upon the transaction structure, including a sponsored spin-off, a partial initial public offering preceding the spin-off or the addition of a third party joint venture partner. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are serving as Entergy's financial advisors in this process.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,500 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated Nov. 5, 2007, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergy's Annual Report on Form 10-K under (i) Forward-Looking Statements, (ii) Item 1A. Risk Factors, (iii) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis and (iv) Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 5, 2007 and (b) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt incurred by SpinCo and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the propose d transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items." Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing resu lts of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
Another non-GAAP measure presented in the Releases is EBITDA. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measurement Entergy has used to gauge SpinCo's future operating performance. Entergy defines EBITDA as net earnings before the cumulative effect of interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and other regulatory charges. EBITDA is provided as a measure of SpinCo's future performance and debt-service capacity that may be useful to securities analysis, investors and others. EBITDA is not, however, a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP measure, information to reconcile EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time. Moreover, EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies.
In addition, the Releases use, and Exhibit 99.1 presents, 2006 pro forma financial statements that have been adjusted to reflect Entergy New Orleans on a consolidated basis. This is a non-GAAP presentation that management believes is useful to investors in comparing Entergy's 2007 operating performance and financial position to Entergy's 2006 operating performance and financial position.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.

Exhibit 99.4


