FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20070719100828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On July 19, 2007, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Entergy Corporation 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects second quarter 2007 as-reported and operational earnings of approximately $1.31 per share. As-reported and operational results in second quarter 2006 were $1.33 per share and $1.22 per share, respectively.
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. Entergy does not expect to record any special items in the current quarter. In second quarter 2006, special items totaling $0.11 per share were recorded to reflect operating results for Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and discontinued operations for Entergy's retail business including a gain recorded on the sale of the retail business during the quarter.
Second quarter 2007 operational earnings are expected to be higher compared to the second quarter 2006 results of $1.22 per share due to higher results at both Entergy Nuclear and Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business, partially offset by lower results at Utility, Parent and Other.
The quarter on quarter increase in earnings at Entergy Nuclear is attributed primarily to higher revenue due to higher energy pricing as well as additional production available resulting from the completion of the acquisition of the Palisades plant on April 11, 2007. Partially offsetting these contributions to Entergy Nuclear's earnings in second quarter 2007 was the effect on revenues of two refueling outages during the period and an extended unplanned outage at Indian Point 3. There was one refueling outage in second quarter 2006. In addition, higher operation and maintenance expense at Entergy Nuclear also partially offset the otherwise improved results quarter over quarter.
Operational results at business for second quarter 2007 are expected to be higher compared to the same period last year due to lower income tax expense as the result of the favorable resolution of tax audit issues.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Operational results at Utility, Parent and Other are expected to be lower due primarily to higher operation and maintenance, interest, and income tax expenses. Current quarter weather was closer to seasonal normal temperatures, compared to considerably warmer weather in second quarter 2006. Second quarter 2007 operational results at Utility, Parent and Other will include results from Entergy New Orleans, Inc. which exited from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during the current period. Results from that company had previously been reported as a special item as it worked through the uncertainties associated with the bankruptcy process.
In addition, Entergy's results for the current period reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the company's share repurchase program.
Entergy affirmed previously issued as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2007 to be in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share.
A teleconference will be held on July 31, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. CT to discuss Entergy's second quarter 2007 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2637 no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The confirmation number is 2801784. Internet users may also access the teleconference and view presentation slides by visiting Entergy's website at www.entergy.com/webcasts. For seven days following the teleconference, a tape delay will be available and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-0820. The confirmation number is the same.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,500 employees.
In this release, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause the actual results to differ materially than the forward-looking information provided. These factors are discussed in more detail in Entergy Corporation's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K including (a) Forward-Looking Information, (b) Item 1A. Risk Factors, and (c) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis and subsequent SEC filings.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references operational earnings in its decision-making, using that measure to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names


