FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20070426072354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2007, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2007. The Earnings Releases also discuss Entergy New Orleans' results of operations for the first quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 26, 2007, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Nathan E. Langston Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: April 26, 2007
/s/ Nathan E. Langston

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
April 26, 2007
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported first quarter 2007 earnings of $1.03 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.02 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2007
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance, depreciation and interest expense, partially offset by higher revenue.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing, partially offset by the effect of reduced production as a result of a refueling outage in the current quarter.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported modestly lower results due to increased losses from lower production in the current period.
 
"We expected 2007 to be an eventful year and we are off to a strong start. Our objectives include putting the remaining significant issues from the 2005 hurricanes behind us, including getting approval of the plan of reorganization of Entergy New Orleans and completing its emergence from bankruptcy," said . "Resolving these issues will allow the company to move forward on the financial footing necessary to realize our aspirations for all stakeholders, including achieving the lowest overall cost for customers as we continue our portfolio transformation process."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Entergy announced its intention to build a new, state-of-the-art generating unit at its Little Gypsy site to be fueled primarily by petroleum coke.
Entergy closed the transaction for Palisades, a 798MW nuclear unit acquired from Consumers Energy.
Entergy was recognized by magazine in their listing of the 100 Most Trustworthy Companies in the U.S., the only energy or electric company on the list.
Forbes
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Thursday, April 26, 2007, with access by telephone, 719-457-2637, confirmation code 4234382. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 4234382. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
.
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2007 versus 2006, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance, depreciation and interest expense, partially offset by higher revenue. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing, partially offset by the effect of reduced production as a result of a refueling outage in the current quarter. Also, Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported modestly lower results due to increased losses from lower production in the current period.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendix B-1 to this release. In addition, appendix B-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in first quarter 2007 was $476 million compared to $1.0 billion in first quarter 2006. The decrease was due primarily to the following items at Utility, Parent & Other:
Absence in the current period of a tax refund of $344 million received in first quarter 2006 in connection with Gulf Opportunity Zone legislation.
Reduced collections of customer receivables and deferred fuel recovery in the current quarter totaling roughly $300 million. Higher-than-normal levels of receivables were collected in first quarter 2006 due to delays in such collections in late 2005 as the result of the 2005 hurricanes.
Lower non-capital storm spending of $55 million.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.
 
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In first quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $0.44 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.43 per share on an operational basis compared to $0.54 per share in as-reported earnings and $0.52 per share of operational earnings in first quarter 2006. As-reported 2007 earnings include a special item of $0.01 per share reflecting earnings in first quarter 2007 for Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI).
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in first quarter 2007, excluding ENOI, primarily reflect higher operation and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense and higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for hurricanes Katrina and Rita and common stock repurchases. Partially offsetting higher expenses were higher revenue from sales growth and weather that was closer to seasonal normal temperatures.
Electricity usage excluding ENOI, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in first quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 5 percent compared to first quarter 2006.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 3 percent.
Industrial sales experienced an increase of 2 percent in first quarter 2007 compared to the same period a year ago.
The increase in the residential segment reflects continued economic recovery in the storm-affected regions that were still experiencing the effects of the 2005 storms in first quarter 2006. The quarter over quarter increase in the commercial and industrial sectors reflect a similar pattern in these sectors from the effect of storms. The industrial sector has seen some level of recovery in the refinery and chemical segments. Lower spot sales to cogeneration customers and efficiency improvements across the industrial sector served to offset a portion of the increase in industrial sales.
ENOI results for first quarter 2007 reflect earnings of $0.01 per share. In first quarter 2006, ENOI reported earnings of $0.03 per share. Additional information on ENOI, its bankruptcy, and the applicable accounting treatment are explained in Appendix A of this release.
First quarter 2007 results at ENOI reflect the ongoing effects of the hurricane. Results for the current period include higher operation and maintenance expense reflecting a return to more normal operations compared to first quarter 2006 when resources were focused on capital additions or storm restoration activities. In addition, results include higher interest expense reflecting interest payments to first mortgage bondholders, which had been waived in the comparable period last year. Interest had not been accrued since the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing date in September 2005 for a period of one year as part of a December 2005 agreement between bondholders and ENOI. ENOI's Plan of Reorganization provides for a payment equal to the amount of that full year's interest at the time of exit from bankruptcy. ENOI's Plan also provides for interest to unsecured creditors from the bankruptcy filing date, which ENOI has accrued. Partially offsetting the higher expenses at ENOI were increased r evenues due primarily to higher sales volumes reflecting some recovery from the low usage and reduced customer base in first quarter 2006.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets. Tables 5 and 6 that follow provide summaries of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures and capacity and generation sold forward projections, respectively.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.62 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2007, compared to $0.39 in first quarter 2006 for both as-reported and operational earnings. The improved results in first quarter 2007 resulted from increased revenues from pricing. Partially offsetting this increase was reduced production as a result of a refueling outage in first quarter 2007 at Indian Point 3. There were no refueling outages in first quarter 2006.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position, including the Palisades acquisition which closed in early April 2007, is 95%, 88%, and 66% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $48, $54 and $57, for 2007, 2008, and 2009, respectively. Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business recorded a loss of $(0.03) per share on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2007 compared to a loss of $(0.01) per share on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2006. The lower results reflect lower production due to an additional plant outage in the current quarter compared to one year ago.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2007 in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share. Earnings guidance for 2007 excludes ENOI given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. During 2007, actual results for ENOI will continue to be separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes until such time as ENOI emerges from bankruptcy. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2006 actual results to compute the 2007 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a reasonable band is created around the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings excluding Entergy New Orleans. Earnings guidance for 2007 is detailed in Table 7 below.
Key assumptions, established in October 2006, supporting 2007 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of just under 2%
Increased revenue associated with storm and non-storm rate requests, partially offset by declining wholesale revenues, among others
Increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to effects of wage and other inflation and increased insurance premiums
Increased interest expense primarily from securitization debt and Palisades financing
Entergy Nuclear
Incremental earnings of $0.20 total for Palisades acquisition, assuming second quarter close; Palisades' contributions to Entergy Nuclear's 2007 metrics are factored in the assumptions that follow
38 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 92% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 3, Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee, all in Spring 2007, and the initial refueling outage at Palisades, in Fall 2007
95% energy sold under existing contracts; 5% sold into the spot market
$49/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published forward market prices in October 2006
85% capacity sold under existing contracts; 15% sold in spot market
$1.60 per kW per month average capacity-only contract price; $3.00 per kW per month unsold capacity based on market prices in October 2006
$21.25/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense reflecting wage and other inflation; $20.50/MWh production cost
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased losses
Special Items
Absence of 2006 recognition of gain contingency associated with receipt of additional proceeds from the 2004 sale of Entergy-Koch Trading and related tax benefits from liquidation of the holding company that owned Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP
Absence of 2006 effect of write-off of capital losses at Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Absence of 2006 results from ENOI as a result of uncertainties associated with working through bankruptcy; 2007 results will be treated as a special item until such time as ENOI emerges from bankruptcy
Share Repurchase Program
2007 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 206 million; excludes effect of the new $1.5 billion share repurchase program
(f) Updated January 2007 to reflect 2006 final results.
Earnings guidance for 2007 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2007 results for Utility, Parent & Other. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2007. Estimated annual impacts shown in the Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
V.
Forward-looking Financial Data and Aspirations
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to its owners as measured by total shareholder return. Entergy believes top-quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, improving returns on invested capital, maintaining investment grade credit quality and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirement.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's projected cash available for capital redeployment for the period 2007 through 2009 excluding Entergy New Orleans. The table reflects an assumed rate of common stock dividend growth consistent with top quartile growth in our industry, or approximately 5 percent annually. The $1.5 billion share repurchase program announced in January 2007, along with its associated effect on debt capacity, is reflected in this table. The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities. Assuming the entire repurchase program is executed, Entergy expects to have $1.0 billion of cash available over this period for several potential uses: investments in new businesses or assets, repayment of debt or equity, or dividend increases. Cash flow from operations includes storm cost recovery anticipated from a combination of insurance, rate relief, and secu ritization; these amounts are applied consistent with regulatory filings and other agreements reached with governmental agencies under which benefits inure to ratepayers. Sources of cash also include debt that Entergy believes it could issue in association with new investments while maintaining credit quality consistent with BBB credit rating. The amount of additional debt could vary depending upon the type of new investment and the credit market environment.
 
VI.
Appendices
Eight appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy New Orleans, Inc.'s filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current quarter.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary schedule of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on the status of the bankruptcy process at Entergy New Orleans, Inc.
Appendix A: Entergy New Orleans, Inc. Bankruptcy
Bankruptcy Filing
To ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Plan of Reorganization
ENOI filed its Fourth Amended Plan of Reorganization (Plan) on January 24, 2007. A competing plan has been filed by the unsecured creditors. The disclosure statements for both plans were approved by the bankruptcy court for circulation to all parties in the proceeding and the deadline for voting on the plans was April 19, 2007.
ENOI believes its Plan is workable, fair and in the public interest. The Plan provides full compensation for all of ENOI's creditors and allows ENOI to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy assuming the plan is supported by creditors and the various conditions included in the plan, as detailed below, are met. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding including the original POR and all amendments, go to
www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx
.
Conditions precedent that must be satisfied for ENOI's Plan to become effective include:
A final Confirmation Order from the bankruptcy court approving the POR as amended
Receipt by ENOI of the $200 million in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding as described below
No Material Adverse Change shall have occurred from and after Confirmation date of the POR
Community Development Block Grant Funding
ENOI applied to the Louisiana Recovery Authority (LRA) for funding from CDBG resources made available to Louisiana. All required state approvals and HUD approval for funding of $200 million have been received. An agreement was reached on April 11, 2007 between ENOI and the Office of Community Development for the State of Louisiana whereby ENOI will receive CDBG funding of $171.7 million within five days of execution and requisite approvals of the agreement. The agreement was approved by the bankruptcy court on April 25, 2007. ENOI will receive the remaining $28.3 million of CDBG funding previously approved on a reimbursement basis for eligible costs. ENOI intends to waive this condition precedent upon receipt of the $171.7 million.
ENOI Rate Plan
On October 27, 2006, the City Council of New Orleans approved a settlement agreement with ENOI that calls for a phased-in rate increase and the creation of a $75M storm reserve that positions ENOI to pay for future hurricane damage. Additional information is included in the Regulatory Summary Table in Appendix C.
Accounting
Entergy owns 100 percent of the common stock of ENOI and has, subject to the rules and requirements of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, continued to supply operating management to ENOI. However, uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings caused Entergy to de-consolidate ENOI for financial reporting purposes beginning in third quarter 2005 with ENOI's financial results being recorded under the equity method of accounting. Under this methodology, earnings from ENOI are now reflected in Entergy's income statement as equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.  Because Entergy owns all of the common stock of ENOI, this change has not affected the amount of net income Entergy has recorded in the current period or any historical period but has resulted in ENOI's net income being presented in one line item rather than included in each individual income statement line item presented. Various line items of Entergy's conso lidated balance sheet and cash flow statement have been revised to reflect the effects of de-consolidating ENOI. In addition, the deconsolidation of ENOI's results is retroactive to January 1, 2005 and Entergy's comparative results now reflect ENOI results under the equity method of accounting.
Appendix B-1 provides details of first quarter 2007 vs. 2006 earnings variance analysis for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
Net revenue increased in first quarter due primarily to sales growth.
Net revenue increased in the first quarter due primarily to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear due to higher pricing partially offset by lower production as a result of a refueling outage at Indian Point 3 during the current period.
Other operation and maintenance expense increased in first quarter due primarily to higher transmission spending associated with implementation of the independent coordinator of transmission structure, distribution spending including the timing of vegetation maintenance expenses, and higher insurance expense.  Also, normal operation and maintenance spending in the current period compared to last year's focus on storm recovery contributed to the quarter-on-quarter increase.
Other operation and maintenance expense decreased at Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business due primarily to lower operating expenses in the current period at the Harrison County plant compared to restoration expenses, charged to operation and maintenance, incurred in first quarter 2006. In addition, the absence of Maritza expenses, a project sold subsequent to first quarter 2006, reduced expenses in this business during the current period.
Depreciation/amortization expense increased due to higher levels of plant in service compared to first quarter 2006.
 
Appendix B-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix G-1.
 
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Restated to reflect MWh billed as the denominator in the calculation.
Restated data to reflect moving purchased power from production costs to non-fuel O&M.
Appendix E: Planned Capital Expenditures
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures. Entergy's capital plan from 2007 through 2009 anticipates $5.3 billion for investment including roughly $2.6 billion of capital to maintain Entergy's existing assets. The remaining $2.7 billion is for specific investments such as the Palisades and Calcasieu acquisitions, transmission upgrades, dry cask storage and nuclear license renewal projects, environmental compliance spending, potential NYPA value sharing costs or other investment opportunities to purchase or construct plants through Entergy's supply plan initiative. Significant items not included in the below expenditures are costs associated with the potential inter-connection between Entergy Gulf States-TX and ERCOT, the current estimate of such costs being approximately $1 billion, as well as costs associated with the potential replacement of steam generators at Entergy's Waterford 3 nuclear unit. In addition, only minimal amounts fo r potential new nuclear development at the Grand Gulf and River Bend sites at the Utility, are included in the below expenditures.
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
In this release, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause the actual results to differ materially than the forward-looking information provided. These factors are discussed in more detail in Entergy Corporation's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K including (a) Forward-Looking Information, (b) Item 1A. Risk Factors, and (c) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis and subsequent SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70013
 
Exhibit 99.2
News Release
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported first quarter 2007 as-reported earnings of $212.2 million, or $1.03 per share, compared with $193.6 million, or 92 cents per share, for first quarter 2006. On an operational basis, Entergy's first quarter 2007 earnings were $209.3 million, or $1.02 per share, compared with $190.2 million, or 90 cents per share, in first quarter 2006.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher operation and maintenance, depreciation and interest expense, partially offset by higher revenue.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing, partially offset by the effect of reduced production as a result of a refueling outage in the current quarter.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported modestly lower results due to increased losses from lower production in the current period.
"We expected 2007 to be an eventful year and we are off to a strong start. Our objectives include putting the remaining significant issues from the 2005 hurricanes behind us, including getting approval of the plan of reorganization of Entergy New Orleans and completing its emergence from bankruptcy," said . "Resolving these issues will allow the company to move forward on the financial footing necessary to realize our aspirations for all stakeholders, including achieving the lowest overall cost for customers as we continue our portfolio transformation process."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy announced its intention to build a new, state-of-the-art generating unit at its Little Gypsy site to be fueled primarily by petroleum coke.
Entergy closed the transaction for Palisades, a 798-megawatt nuclear unit acquired from Consumers Energy.
Entergy was recognized by magazine in their listing of the 100 Most Trustworthy Companies in the United States, the only energy or electric company on the list.
Forbes
In first quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other recorded as-reported earnings of $89.5 million, or 44 cents per share, compared to $113.2 million, or 54 cents per share, in first quarter 2006. On an operational basis, earnings were $86.6 million, or 43 cents per share, in first quarter 2007, compared to $109.8 million, or 52 cents per share, in first quarter 2006. As-reported 2007 earnings include a special item of one cent per share reflecting earnings in first quarter 2007 for Entergy New Orleans, Inc.
Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in first quarter 2007, excluding Entergy New Orleans, primarily reflect higher operation and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense and higher interest expense due to debt incurred to pay for storm restoration costs for hurricanes Katrina and Rita and common stock repurchases. Partially offsetting higher expenses were higher revenue from sales growth and weather that was closer to seasonal normal temperatures.
Excluding Entergy New Orleans, megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in first quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up five percent compared to first quarter 2006. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up three percent. Industrial sales experienced an increase of two percent in first quarter 2007, compared to the same period a year ago.
The increase in the residential segment reflects continued economic recovery in the storm-affected regions that were still experiencing the effects of the 2005 storms in first quarter 2006. The quarter over quarter increase in the commercial and industrial sectors reflect a similar pattern in these sectors from the effect of storms. The industrial sector has seen some level of recovery in the refinery and chemical segments. Lower spot sales to cogeneration customers and efficiency improvements across the industrial sector served to offset a portion of the increase in industrial sales.
Entergy New Orleans' results are being treated as a special item. As such, its results are included in Utility, Parent & Other as-reported earnings, but are excluded from operational earnings. Also, Entergy New Orleans is de-consolidated for financial reporting purposes due to uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the Entergy New Orleans bankruptcy proceedings. Accordingly, revenue and expense explanations provided above exclude the revenues and expenses of Entergy New Orleans.
To ensure continued progress in restoring power and gas service to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Entergy New Orleans filed its initial plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy court on October 23, 2006 and filed its fourth amended plan on January 24, 2007. A competing plan has been filed by the unsecured creditors. The disclosure statements for both plans were approved by the bankruptcy court for circulation to all parties in the proceeding and the deadline for voting on the plans was April 19, 2007. Entergy believes its plan is workable, fair, and in the public interest. For more information on documents filed in this proceeding, including the original plan of reorganization and all amendments, go to www.entergy.com/investor_relations/enoi.aspx.
Entergy New Orleans results for first quarter 2007 reflect earnings of $2.9 million, or one cent per share. In first quarter 2006, Entergy New Orleans reported earnings of $5.6 million, or three cents per share. First quarter 2007 results at Entergy New Orleans reflect the ongoing effects of the hurricane. Results for the current period include higher operation and maintenance expense reflecting a return to more normal operations compared to first quarter 2006 when resources were focused on capital additions or storm restoration activities. In addition, results include higher interest expense reflecting interest payments to first mortgage bondholders, which had been waived in the comparable period last year. Interest had not been accrued since the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing date in September 2005 for a period of one year as part of a December 2005 agreement between bondholders and Entergy New Orleans. Entergy New Orleans' Plan of Reorganization provides for a payment equal to the amount of that full yea r's interest at the time of exit from bankruptcy. Entergy New Orleans' Plan also provides for interest to unsecured creditors from the bankruptcy filing date, which Entergy New Orleans has accrued. Partially offsetting the higher expenses at Entergy New Orleans were increased revenues due primarily to higher sales volumes reflecting some recovery from the low usage and reduced customer base in first quarter 2006.
Entergy Nuclear earned $128.2 million, or 62 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2007. This compares to as-reported and operational earnings of $81.5 million, or 39 cents per share, in first quarter 2006. The improved results in first quarter 2007 resulted from increased revenues from pricing. Partially offsetting this increase was reduced production as a result of a refueling outage in first quarter 2007 at Indian Point 3. There were no refueling outages in first quarter 2006.
Entergy's non-nuclear wholesale assets business recorded a loss of $5.5 million, or three cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2007, compared to a loss of $1.1 million, or one cent per share in first quarter 2006. The lower results reflect lower production due to an additional plant outage in the current quarter compared to one year ago.
Entergy is reaffirming 2007 earnings guidance in the range of $5.40 to $5.70 per share on both as-reported and operational bases. Earnings guidance for 2007 excludes Entergy New Orleans given the uncertainty that remains for this business as it works through its Chapter 11 Bankruptcy proceeding. During 2007, actual results for Entergy New Orleans will be separately identified as a special item for earnings release purposes until such time as Entergy New Orleans emerges from bankruptcy.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,500 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated April 26, 2007, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this release, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause the actual results to differ materially than the forward-looking information provided. These factors are discussed in more detail in Entergy Corporation's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K including (a) Forward-Looking Information, (b) Item 1A. Risk Factors, and (c) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis and subsequent SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Earnings Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Earnings Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Earnings Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items". Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ong oing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities, and net cash available for new investment, debt or equity repayment, dividend increase, are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Earnings Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


