FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20070312124420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) (c) The Board of Directors of Entergy Corporation has elected Richard J. Smith, Group President, Utility Operations, to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer of Entergy Corporation.  Mr. Smith, age 55, has held the title of Group President, Utility Operations since 2001. For additional information, see the press release of Entergy Corporation dated March 12, 2007.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Robert D. Sloan Executive Vice President , General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
/s/ Robert D. Sloan
 
Dated: March 12, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Wayne Leonard has named Entergy leaders to new roles effective April 2.
The reorganization will enhance organizational effectiveness and performance through personal development of not only the individuals directly affected, but also those throughout the organization who may broaden their perspectives from exposure to different points of view in functional leadership.
New leadership roles include:
Richard Smith, currently group president, utility operations, has been appointed Entergy Corporation's president and chief operating officer.
Gary Taylor, currently president and chief executive officer of Entergy Operations and chief nuclear officer, will become group president, utility operations.
Michael Kansler, currently president of Entergy Nuclear Northeast, has been named president and CEO of Entergy Operations and chief nuclear officer.
Terry Seamons, Ph.D., formerly vice president and managing director of the Detroit office of RHR International, will join Entergy as senior vice president of human resources and administration.
"As we consider the current and future challenges, I am confident this structure will serve the company well. It brings together the best of the utility and nuclear cultures along with the respective experiences and talents of their leaders to advance the corporate aspirations and initiatives," said Leonard.
Smith brings considerable regulatory experience to his new role as the company moves into the license extension phase of nuclear and considerable financial acumen and regulated utility economic background as the company transitions into the next phases of the portfolio transformation process, including self-built base load capacity and potentially new nuclear investment. He is ideally suited for the challenge, both in knowledge and experience, to assure the company's decisions meet both the demands of the financial markets that provide capital and the operational needs of the utility system. Mark Savoff, executive vice president, operations, and Kansler will report to Smith.
Taylor brings a track record of operational excellence in nuclear to the utility. While the utility business has realized significant performance improvement in recent years in terms of safety, reliability and customer service, the utility requires specific technical or operational solutions across the service area to assure every customer receives safe and reliable service in the most economic manner.
Kansler will continue to provide the leadership that the excellence in the nuclear program is built on and raise the bar and set new standards on safety and operational performance, just as each of his predecessors has before him.
Seamons succeeds William Madison, currently senior vice president of human resources and administration, who has announced his intent to retire. Seamons brings a wealth of experience from a management consulting firm specializing in linking managerial effectiveness, organizational performance and business strategy. He holds a doctorate in psychology and has consulted extensively with the company. Seamons has been a steady influence and demonstrated concern for the welfare, growth and development of employees. Madison retires after having given so much to Entergy including a wealth of experience from an outstanding career at three other Fortune 500 companies.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,000 employees.


