FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20081028072226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 28, 2008, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2008. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 28, 2008, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2008. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Theodore H. Bunting, Jr. Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: October 28, 2008
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.

INVESTOR NEWS
October 28, 2008
Exhibit 99.1
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported third quarter 2008 earnings of $2.41 per share on an as-reported basis and $2.50 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2008
Utility, Parent & Other earnings were moderately higher with lower income tax expense and operations and maintenance expense, largely offset by lower net revenue.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher power prices.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported lower earnings as a result of higher income tax expense.
"During the quarter we experienced both the worldwide collapse of the financial market and some of the most devastating storm activity (Gustav and Ike) to ever hit the Gulf Coast area. Through sound integrated scenario planning and preparation, the Company was able to meet the operational and financial needs without sacrificing our commitments to our goals and objectives," said . "Through superior execution, our utility completed storm repairs in record time again and more importantly with the safest record, proving it is unmatched at storm restoration in the country. Through diligent risk management and financial planning, we preserved our long-standing solid liquidity position, without resorting to extreme financing measures."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Entergy was named for a third consecutive year to the exclusive Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, the only U.S. utility to be selected
GovernanceMetrics, an independent evaluator of corporate governance activities, assigned Entergy an overall global rating of 10.0 for best-in-class corporate governance
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. and Entergy Louisiana, LLC received nearly $1 billion of storm financing proceeds
Entergy Nuclear received approval from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the renewal of the operating license for the James A. FitzPatrick plant, extending its license into 2034
.
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, October 28, 2008, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 3834525. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 3834525. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter 2008 versus 2007, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported lower results due to higher income tax expense. Entergy's results for the current period also reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the company's share repurchase program.
Utility, Parent & Other had moderately higher earnings due primarily to lower income tax expense and operations and maintenance expense, largely offset by decreased revenues from milder-than-normal weather in both the billed and unbilled sales periods, and the effects of two major hurricanes which led to decreased customer usage. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of higher power prices.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2008 was $1.8 billion compared to $663 million in third quarter 2007. The increase was due primarily to:
the receipt of $954 million of proceeds associated with storm-related debt issuances by the Louisiana Utilities Restoration Corporation on behalf of Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
increased collections at the Utility of deferred fuel recovery in the current quarter totaling $287 million
higher net revenues at Entergy Nuclear of $78 million
lower income tax payments of $120 million
Partially offsetting the above items were:
higher Utility working capital requirements of $144 million
an increase of pension funding payments in the amount of $103 million
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In , Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $1.47 per share on as-reported basis and $1.56 per share on an operational basis, compared to $1.52 per share in as-reported earnings and operational earnings in third quarter 2007. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2008 reflect lower income tax expense and lower operation and maintenance expense, largely offset by lower net revenues. The lower income tax expense was due to the liquidation of a subsidiary which resulted in a tax loss on the company's investment. Lower operations and maintenance expense was the result of lower payroll-related costs and the absence of a provision recorded in 2007 related to storm-related bad debts at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and Entergy Louisiana, LLC. Operations and maintenance expense diverted to storm restoration was offset by storm expense recorded at Entergy Arkansas. The decrease in net revenues reflects the effect of milder-than-normal weather which reduced both billed sales and unbilled sales during the period and reduced customer usage associated with hurricanes Gustav and Ike during the quarter.
third quarter 2008
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in third quarter 2008, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a 1.5 percent decrease compared to third quarter 2007.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were relatively flat year over year.
Industrial sales in the current quarter were essentially the same as one year ago.
The residential sales sector showed a decrease quarter to quarter as two major hurricanes affected Entergy's service territory within two weeks of one another. An increase in the number of customers served to partially offset the decrease in sales growth in the residential sector, as well as the commercial and governmental sectors. Sales in the industrial sector for third quarter 2008were essentially unchanged compared to the same quarter of 2007. The effect of storm activity during the quarter, an overall sluggish economy nationally, and continued weakness in the refining segment's fundamentals weighed on the industrial sector where only chemicals and primary metals faired reasonably well due to continued export activities.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $1.05 per share on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2008, compared to $0.80 per share in third quarter 2007 for as-reported and operational earnings. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased primarily as a result of higher power prices.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position is 92%, 83%, and 59% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $53, $61 and $58, for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had a loss of $(0.11) per share on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2008 compared to $(0.02) per share on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2007. The increased loss reflects higher income tax expense in the current period resulting from a redemption of an investment at the non-nuclear wholesale business.
IV.
Other Financial Performance Highlights
Liquidity
Entergy believes its total liquidity is sufficient to meet its current obligations, including the effects associated with hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Nevertheless, each utility company is responsible for its hurricane restoration cost obligations and for recovering its hurricane-related costs. At the end of third quarter 2008, Entergy had $2.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand on a consolidated basis, and additional financing authority, subject to debt covenants. Under previously obtained authority, Entergy may issue in the aggregate approximately $2.0 billion of new short-term debt and $4.1 billion of new long-term debt, including undrawn revolving credit facility capacity of $224 million at Entergy Corporation, $100 million at Entergy Arkansas and $50 million at Entergy Mississippi, subject to debt covenants. Entergy Corporation's revolving credit facility requires it to maintain a consolidated debt ratio of 65 percent or less of its total capitalization. Some of the utili ty company credit facilities also have similar covenants. Further, Entergy's utility companies had $262 million of funded storm reserves reflected in other property and investments at the end of the quarter.
Table 7 provides Entergy's consolidated cash position and borrowing authority.
(d) Authority granted by local regulator.
In fourth quarter 2008, Entergy expects consolidated net liquidity sources of approximately $2.4 billion taking into consideration its liquidity position at the end of the third quarter and other projected sources and uses of liquidity generated in the fourth quarter. Primary sources include operating cash flow and planned financing/refinancing for Entergy Texas. Primary uses include Entergy Texas' remaining debt maturity in December, as well as capital and hurricane-related expenditures, dividend payments and share repurchases. In the event Entergy is unable to access the credit markets on reasonable commercial terms by the end of the year, Entergy's consolidated net liquidity sources would stand at approximately $2.0 billion.
Table 8 provides a summary of liquidity sources and uses from September 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008.
(e) Sources and uses are reported on a business as usual basis and do not incorporate potential spin-off debt transactions.
(f) Includes storm restoration spending of $0.2 billion through 9/30/08 and $0.9 billion through year-end, the mid-point of projected costs.
Debt Maturities
Debt maturities include $160 million for Entergy Texas in fourth quarter 2008. Debt maturities in 2009 include just over $500 million in the fourth quarter. Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi revolving credit facilities of $100 million and $50 million expire in April and May 2009, respectively. These facilities are generally renewed on an annual basis. The remaining credit facilities expire in 2012.
Table 9 provides details on Entergy's debt maturities.
(g) Long-term debt, including current portion, reported on a business as usual basis; does not incorporate potential spin-off debt transactions.
(h) Excludes $180 million long-term DOE obligation and $543 million total lease obligations for Waterford 3 and Grand Gulf.
(i) Pursuant to the jurisdictional separation of Entergy Gulf States, Entergy Texas has until December 31, 2010 to repay debt assumed under the debt assumption agreement including $178 million otherwise due in 2011-2012 and $436 million due in 2013+.
(j) $500 million of Entergy Corporation notes are subject to remarketing provisions in November or December 2008 or February 2009. In the event remarketing efforts fail, Entergy will issue shares of stock pursuant to the equity units conversion in February 2009 and retire $500 million of notes. Should the remarketing succeed, Entergy will receive $500 million of cash, issue shares of stock pursuant to the equity units and $500 million of notes will remain outstanding.
 
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business as usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses, a portion of which was incurred during the current quarter, anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below and in Appendix A. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2007 actual results to compute the 2008 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. 2008 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 10 below.
(k) Updated January 2008 to reflect 2007 final results.
 
Key assumptions supporting 2008 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of roughly 2%
Increased revenue associated with rate actions
Decreased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to higher discount rate on benefit plans, absence of minimum bill write-offs, and lower storm reserves
Increased depreciation associated with rate base growth
Decreased interest expense as a result of receiving proceeds from Louisiana storm financings, net of effects on interest expense of other financings
Decreased other income due primarily to absence of 2007 carrying costs reflected for storm settlements
Decreased income taxes associated with absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments
Entergy Nuclear
41 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 in Spring 2008, and FitzPatrick and Vermont Yankee, both in Fall 2008
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market (Additional sales after guidance was issued increased sold forward position to 92%)
$54/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published market prices in October 2007
$22.10/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense/purchased power with increase primarily due to full year of Palisades operation (acquired mid April 2007); $21.30/MWh production cost
Increased depreciation due to continued investment in nuclear fleet and full year of Palisades operation
Increased income tax expense associated with absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments, a change in New York state tax law and the step-up in tax basis from restructuring the Indian Point 2 non-quali fied decommissioning trust fund
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased income tax associated with the absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments, favorable resolution of tax audit issues, and benefits associated with project restructurings
Share Repurchase Program
2008 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 197 million
Special Items
Absence of 2007 nuclear alignment charge
Earnings guidance for 2008 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2008 results for Utility, Parent & Other. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2008. Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 11 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
VI.
Business Separation
On November 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Enexus Energy Corporation, formerly referred to as SpinCo, will be a new, independent publicly traded company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
EquaGen L.L.C. has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
Progress achieved since the last quarter update includes:
Key board and leadership positions at Enexus and EquaGen continued to be filled.
A private letter ruling finding that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment for federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders was received from Internal Revenue Service on September 10, 2008.
Regulatory proceedings continued to advance
In Vermont, all scheduled procedural matters have been completed and a decision from the Vermont Public Service Board is pending.
In New York, all scheduled procedural matters have been completed and
the
ALJs issued notification to all parties that from their review of the submissions, all issues of fact and policy material to the relief requested by petitioners have been thoroughly addressed by the parties, an adequate record for decision is available to the Commission, and no further formal proceedings are warranted.
A second amendment to the Form 10 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission was filed on September 12, 2008.
Syndication efforts were launched at the end of August for a $1 billion Enexus senior secured revolving credit facility, and Enexus obtained over $1 billion of commitment letters.
Documentation for the offering of pre-spin exchangeable notes by Entergy is substantially complete and Enexus is positioned to launch an offering of its notes at the first opportunity.
The state regulatory decisions and financing are now the critical path. Entergy continues to target receiving regulatory decisions in the fourth quarter. However, due to unprecedented turmoil in the financial markets, it is uncertain whether or not financing fundamental to the spin-off transaction can be effected in the near-term. Entergy and Enexus stand ready to launch the financing when market conditions are favorable for such an issuance.
Additional information on the spin-off including proposed new business structure, leadership teams, business overviews, financial aspirations, and a transaction timeline including regulatory filing status are included in Appendix A of this release.
 
VII.
Appendices
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy's plan to separate the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analysis and detail on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on Entergy's planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business.
The announced spin-off of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company. Enexus Energy Corporation has been selected as the name of the new company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership. EquaGen L.L.C. has been selected as the name for the joint venture. Below are transaction details and other information on Entergy, Enexus and EquaGen.
New Business Structure
Once the transaction is complete, Entergy Corporation's shareholders will own 100 percent of the common equity in both Entergy and Enexus. Enexus' business is expected to be comprised of the non-utility nuclear assets, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station in Plymouth, Mass., the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants in Oswego and Buchanan, N.Y., respectively, the Palisades plant in Covert, Mich., and the Vermont Yankee plant in Brattleboro, Vt., and a power marketing operation. Entergy's business will be comprised of the current six regulated utility operating subsidiaries, System Energy Resources, Inc., the related services subsidiaries System Fuels, Inc., Entergy Operations, Inc. and Entergy Services, Inc., and the remaining Entergy subsidiaries. The newly created joint venture, EquaGen, is expected to operate the nuclear assets owned by Enexus. EquaGen is also expected to offer nuclear services to third parties, including decommissioning, plant relicens ing and plant operations for Cooper Nuclear Station and others.
The joint venture operating structure for Enexus ensures that the core nuclear operations expertise currently in place at each of the non-utility nuclear plants will remain after the spin-off.  Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of the non-utility nuclear plants, is expected to be wholly-owned by EquaGen and will remain the operator of the plants after the separation. Entergy Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of Entergy's utility nuclear plants, will also remain in place as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy and will continue to be the operator of the utility nuclear plants.  The decision to retain the existing operators for the nuclear stations reflects Entergy's commitment to maintaining safety, security and operational excellence.
Leadership Team
The Entergy Board of Directors has approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles. The EquaGen Board of Managers will be comprised of equal membership from both Entergy and Enexus. Efforts continue to fill out the remaining leadership roles of both Enexus and EquaGen.
Brief Overview of Each Business
After completion of the business separation, Entergy will consist of the current six electric utility subsidiaries in four contiguous states with generating capacity of more than 22,000 megawatts and 15,000 miles of transmission lines. Entergy will be a customer service-focused electric and gas utility with a unique growth opportunity through its portfolio transformation strategy that benefits customers. The company will deliver electricity to 2.7 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas and will remain headquartered in New Orleans, LA.
Enexus is expected to own nearly 5,000 megawatts of nuclear generation, most of which is located in the northeastern United States. This location has some of the highest average regional power prices in the United States both today and expected into the future through at least 2020. Enexus will be uniquely positioned to provide to the region the only pure-play, emission-free nuclear generation. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
EquaGen is expected to be owned 50 percent each by Entergy and Enexus, and expected to have operating responsibility for Enexus' nuclear fleet. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
As a premier nuclear operator, the joint venture will have broad nuclear experience building and operating boiling and pressurized water reactor technologies. EquaGen is expected to be uniquely positioned to grow through offerings of nuclear operating expertise, as well as ancillary nuclear services to third parties, including plant decommissioning and relicensing.
Financial Aspirations
The companies will continue to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return. The companies believe top-quartile shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, delivering returns at or above the risk-adjusted cost of capital, maintaining credit quality and flexibility, and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirements.
Financial aspirations through 2012 include the following:
Top-quartile total shareholder return:
Entergy: 6-8% annual earnings per share growth, a 70 to 75% dividend payout ratio target, and capacity for a new share repurchase program targeted at $2.5 billion, $0.5 billion of which has already been authorized by the Entergy Board of Directors, with the balance to be authorized and to commence following completion of spin-off
Enexus: $2 billion in earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and interest and dividend income (EBITDA), a non-GAAP financial measure defined in Appendix F, for the existing non-utility nuclear fleet portfolio by 2012, assuming an average power price on open positions of roughly $95/MWh, generating cash flow for investment capacity and/or distributions through share repurchases in the range of $0.5 billion to $1 billion annually
Credit quality and flexibility to manage risk and act on opportunities:
Entergy: investment grade credit with a lower risk profile
Enexus: strong merchant credit, relative to others (subject to market terms and conditions, Enexus expects to execute roughly $4.5 billion of debt financing)
The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.
2012 aspirations can be considered in association with financial sensitivities as shown in Table 12. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in aspiration resulting from changes in aspiration drivers. Estimated impacts shown in Table 12 are intended to be illustrative.
 
Transaction Timing
The state regulatory decisions and financing are now the critical path. Entergy continues to target receiving regulatory decisions in the fourth quarter. However, due to unprecedented turmoil in the financial markets, it is uncertain whether or not financing fundamental to the spin-off transaction can be effected in the near-term. Entergy and Enexus stand ready to launch the financing when market conditions are favorable for such an issuance. The transaction is expected to close on a month end. The transactions are subject to various approvals, outlined in the following table. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the subsequent approval of the Entergy Board of Directors
. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are serving as Entergy's financial advisors in this process.
Appendices B-1 and B-2 provides details of third quarter and year-to-date 2008 vs. 2007 earnings variance analysis for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
The decrease in income taxes in the quarter and year-to-date periods resulted primarily from recording the liquidation of Entergy Power Generation.
The increase in income taxes in the quarter resulted primarily from the redemption of an investment at the Non-Utility Wholesale Assets business. The year-to-date increase also reflects the absence of the positive benefit of the resolution of tax audit issues in the year-to-date 2007 period. The effect of a change in Massachusetts state tax law in third quarter 2008 offset the effect of a comparable New York change in 2007.
The lower quarter expense was due primarily to lower administrative and general expenses and is offset by incremental Palisades spending (acquired in April 2007) on a year-to-date basis.
The decrease reflects lower rates on borrowings by Entergy Corporation.
The increase in the quarter and year-to-date periods is due primarily to the absence in the current period of an adjustment to depreciation in third quarter 2007 made in connection with storm recovery settlements.
The decrease in the quarter is due primarily to the effects of milder-than-normal weather in both billed and unbilled periods and lower usage related to hurricanes Gustav and Ike outages. On a year-to-date basis, regulatory actions and prior period sales growth partially offset the third quarter decrease.
The increase in the quarter is due primarily to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear from higher pricing while the increase in the year-to-date period is due to increased revenues from higher pricing, higher production due to fewer outage days and the addition of the Palisades plant acquired in April 2007.
The decrease in the quarter is due primarily to the absence of carrying charges recorded in the prior year in connection with storm recovery settlements and lower earnings on nuclear decommissioning trust investments in the current period and year-to-date period also.
Reflects accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program.
The increase reflects the amortization of expenses for more planned refueling outages compared to the year-to-date period in 2007, including Palisades' fir st refueling outage in fourth quarter 2007.
The increase in the year-to-date period is due to the inclusion of Palisades, as well as increased plant in service.
The decrease is due primarily to impairments recorded on decommissioning investments at Entergy Nuclear, including an additional impairment in third quarter 2008.
The increase is primarily due to nuclear spin-off related expenses recorded at Parent, increased charges for storm damages at EAI, net of expense diverted to storm restoration, and the absence of the 2007 write-off of minimum bill credits at Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana.
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix G-1.
Data for periods beginning 1Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. Prior periods are not restated for this effect.
Data has been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007. 4Q07 excludes the effect of the nuclear alignment special.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Restated to reflect MWh billed as the denominator in the calculation.
Restated data to reflect moving purchased power from production costs to non-fuel O&M. 4Q07 excludes the effect of the nuclear alignment special.
 
Appendix E: Planned Capital Expenditures
Entergy's capital plan from 2008 through 2010 anticipates $5.9 billion for investment, including $2.7 billion of maintenance capital. The remaining $3.2 billion is for specific investments such as the Utility's portfolio transformation strategy (i.e., Calcasieu and Ouachita acquisitions and Little Gypsy repowering), the steam generator replacement at Entergy Louisiana's Waterford 3 nuclear unit, environmental compliance spending, transmission upgrades, business function relocation, dry cask storage and nuclear license renewal projects, NYPA value sharing and other initiatives. A potentially significant item not included in these estimates is the cost associated with the proposed inter-connection between Entergy Texas and ERCOT (up to approximately $1 billion). In addition, only minimal amounts for potential new nuclear development at the Grand Gulf and River Bend sites at the Utility are included.
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Data for periods beginning 1Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. Prior periods are not restated for this effect.
Data for periods beginning 1Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. Prior periods are not restated for this effect.
 
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, (ii) Entergy's Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31 and June 30, 2008 and (iii) Entergy's other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings):(i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislat ive and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported third quarter 2008 as-reported earnings of $470.3 million, or $2.41 per share, and operational earnings of $487.3 million, or $2.50 per share, compared with as-reported and operational earnings of $461.2 million, or $2.30 per share, for third quarter 2007.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other earnings were moderately higher with lower income tax expense and operations and maintenance expense, largely offset by lower net revenue.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher power prices.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported lower earnings as a result of higher income tax expense.
"During the quarter we experienced both the worldwide collapse of the financial market and some of the most devastating storm activity (Gustav and Ike) to ever hit the Gulf Coast area. Through sound integrated scenario planning and preparation, the company was able to meet the operational and financial needs without sacrificing our commitments to our goals and objectives," said "Through superior execution, our utility completed storm repairs in record time again and more importantly with the safest record, proving it is unmatched at storm restoration in the country. Through diligent risk management and financial planning, we preserved our long-standing solid liquidity position, without resorting to extreme financing measures."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer.
Entergy was named for a third consecutive year to the exclusive Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, the only U.S. utility to be selected.
GovernanceMetrics, an independent evaluator of corporate governance activities, assigned Entergy an overall global rating of 10.0 for best-in-class corporate governance.
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. and Entergy Louisiana, LLC received nearly $1 billion of storm financing proceeds.
Entergy Nuclear received approval from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the renewal of the operating license for the James A. FitzPatrick plant, extending its license into 2034.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CDT on Tuesday, Oct. 28, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 3834525. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 3834525. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at www.entergy.com.
In quarter 2008, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $286.0 million, or $1.47 per share, on an as-reported basis and earnings of $303.0 million, or $1.56 per share, on an operational basis, compared to $305.7 million, or $1.52 per share, in as-reported and operational earnings in third quarter 2007. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2008 reflect lower income tax expense and lower operation and maintenance expense, largely offset by lower net revenues. The lower income tax expense was due to the liquidation of a subsidiary which resulted in a tax loss on the company's investment. Lower operations and maintenance expense was the result of lower payroll-related costs and the absence of a provision recorded in 2007 related to storm-related bad debts at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. and Entergy Louisiana, LLC. Operations and maintenance expense diverted to storm restoration was offset by storm expense recorded at Entergy Arkansas, Inc. Th e decrease in net revenues reflects the effect of milder-than-normal weather which reduced both billed sales and unbilled sales during the period and reduced customer usage associated with hurricanes Gustav and Ike during the quarter.
third
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in third quarter 2008, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a 1.5 percent decrease compared to third quarter 2007. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were relatively flat year over year. Industrial sales in the current quarter were essentially the same as one year ago.
The residential sales sector showed a decrease quarter to quarter as two major hurricanes affected Entergy's service territory within two weeks of one another. An increase in the number of customers served to partially offset the decrease in sales growth in the residential sector, as well as the commercial and governmental sectors. Sales in the industrial sector for third quarter 2008 were essentially unchanged compared to the same quarter of 2007. The effect of storm activity during the quarter, an overall sluggish economy nationally, and continued weakness in the refining segment's fundamentals weighed on the industrial sector where only chemicals and primary metals faired reasonably well due to continued export activities.
Entergy Nuclear earned $205.3 million, or $1.05 per share, on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2008, compared to $160.9 million, or 80 cents per share, for as-reported and operational earnings in third quarter 2007. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased primarily as a result of higher power prices.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business had a loss of $21.0 million, or 11 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2008 compared to a loss of $5.5 million, or 2 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2007. The increased loss reflects higher income tax expense in the current period resulting from a redemption of an investment at the non-nuclear wholesale business.
Entergy is reaffirming 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business-as-usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses, a portion of which were incurred during the current quarter, anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below.
On November 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Enexus Energy Corporation, formerly referred to as SpinCo, will be a new, independent publicly traded company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership. EquaGen L.L.C. has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
Progress achieved since the last quarter update includes:
Key board and leadership positions at Enexus and EquaGen continued to be filled.
A private letter ruling finding that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment for federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders was received from the Internal Revenue Service on Sept. 10.
Regulatory proceedings continued to advance
In Vermont, all scheduled procedural matters have been completed and a decision from the Vermont Public Service Board is pending.
In New York, all scheduled procedural matters have been completed and the administrative law judges issued notification to all parties that from their review of the submissions, all issues of fact and policy material to the relief requested by petitioners have been thoroughly addressed by the parties, an adequate record for decision is available to the Commission, and no further formal proceedings are warranted.
A second amendment to the Form 10 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was filed on Sept. 12.
Syndication efforts were launched at the end of August for a $1 billion Enexus senior secured revolving credit facility, and Enexus obtained over $1 billion of commitment letters.
Documentation for the offering of pre-spin exchangeable notes by Entergy is substantially complete and Enexus is positioned to launch an offering of its notes at the first opportunity.
The state regulatory decisions and financing are now the critical path. Entergy continues to target receiving regulatory decisions in the fourth quarter. However, due to unprecedented turmoil in the financial markets, it is uncertain whether or not financing fundamental to the spin-off transaction can be effected in the near-term. Entergy and Enexus stand ready to launch the financing when market conditions are favorable for such an issuance.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 14,300 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated Oct. 28, 2008, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, (ii) Entergy's Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended March 31 and June 30, 2008 and (iii) Entergy's other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b)the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this press release and in subsequent securities filings):(i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulato ry actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items." Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In the third quarter 2008 covered by the Releases, Entergy reported a special item for expenses incurred in connection with the plan to pursue the separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture.. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, and net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
Another non-GAAP measure presented in the Releases is EBITDA. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measurement Entergy has used to gauge Enexus' (formerly referred to as SpinCo) future operating performance. Entergy defines EBITDA as net earnings before the effect of interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is provided as a measure of Enexus' future performance and debt-service capacity that may be useful to securities analysis, investors and others. EBITDA is not, however, a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP measure, information to reconcile EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time. Moreover, EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


