FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20080122082954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Dated: January 22, 2008
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On January 22, 2008, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Entergy Corporation 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects fourth quarter 2007 as-reported earnings of approximately $0.95 per share and fourth quarter operational earnings of approximately $1.10 per share. As-reported and operational results in fourth quarter 2006 were $1.27 per share and $0.79 per share, respectively.
New Orleans, La. -
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. Fourth quarter 2007 as-reported results will include special items to reflect costs associated with the nuclear realignment initiative at Utility, Parent and Other and Entergy Nuclear. In fourth quarter 2006, special items totaling $0.48 per share were recorded for the following items:
a loss at Entergy New Orleans, Inc. whose results were reported as a special item as it worked its way through a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing
a loss at Entergy's competitive retail business recorded as a special item given the sale of this business
tax benefits on tax capital losses associated with winding up Entergy's position in Entergy-Koch, LP
a gain on the sales of Entergy-Koch Trading and Gulf South Pipeline
write-off of tax capital losses at Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business
Fourth quarter 2007 operational earnings are expected to be higher compared to the fourth quarter 2006 results of $0.79 per share due to higher earnings at both Entergy Nuclear and Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business, partially offset by lower results at Utility, Parent and Other. In addition, Entergy's results for the current period reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the company's share repurchase program.
The quarter on quarter increase in earnings at Entergy Nuclear is attributed to higher revenue due to higher energy pricing and increased production made available by the addition of Palisades acquired in second quarter 2007, as well as lower income tax expense. These items were partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expense at Entergy Nuclear, primarily associated with including Palisades in the portfolio.
The quarter on quarter increase in earnings at Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business was due primarily to lower income tax expense.
The quarter on quarter decrease in earnings at Utility, Parent and Other is attributed primarily to higher income tax expense and the absence of a positive regulatory settlement, the effects of which was included in fourth quarter 2006 results. Partially offsetting these items were higher revenue due primarily to warmer-than-normal weather in the current period compared to normal weather one year ago and higher transmission revenue, and an increase in recovery of capacity costs.
Entergy affirmed previously issued as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2008 to be in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share.
A teleconference will be held on January 29, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. CT to discuss Entergy's fourth quarter 2007 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 8984015, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 8984015.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.6 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 14,500 employees.
In this release, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause the actual results to differ materially than the forward-looking information provided. These factors are discussed in more detail in Entergy Corporation's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K including (a) Forward-Looking Information, (b) Item 1A. Risk Factors, and (c) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis and subsequent SEC filings.

Exhibit 99.2
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items". Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references operational earnings in its decision-making, using that measure to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names


