FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20080129070918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 29, 2008, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On January 29, 2008, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2007. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By: Theodore H. Bunting, Jr. Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: January 29, 2008
_/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
January 29, 2008
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported fourth quarter 2007 earnings of $0.96 per share on as-reported basis and $1.12 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Fourth Quarter 2007
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due primarily to higher income tax expense.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing, production from the Palisades plant acquired in second quarter 2007, and lower income tax expense.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported higher results due primarily to lower income tax expense.
"2007 closed with constructive resolution of numerous regulatory matters positioning our utility to advance its growth strategy," said . "In addition, the actions necessary to complete the planned non-utility nuclear spin-off remain on track for a third quarter 2008 close. Consistent with that, the Entergy Board of Directors has granted authority for $0.5 billion of the anticipated post-spin $2.5 billion share repurchase program."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
 
 
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Entergy won three awards from Edison Electric Institute including an Emergency Assistance Award for power restoration efforts following a January 2007 ice storm in Oklahoma as well as an Advocacy Excellence Award for its low-income initiative and an Outstanding Achievement Award for grassroots nuclear advocacy efforts in New York.
Final approvals were received and the separation was completed of Entergy Gulf States into two distinct companies, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C., or EGSL, and a Texas company, Entergy Texas, Inc., or ETI.
Entergy Nuclear supplemented its filing with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the spin-off transaction and made related regulatory filings in New York and Vermont.
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, January 29, 2008, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 8984015. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 8984015. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
.
 
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for fourth quarter 2007 versus 2006, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher income tax expense and the absence in the current period of a positive regulatory settlement included in fourth quarter 2006 results. These items were partially offset by higher revenues due to warmer-than-normal weather, increased transmission revenue and increased recovery of capacity costs. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing and additional production available from the Palisades plant acquired in second quarter 2007, and lower income tax expense, partially offset by higher expense primarily associated with including Palisades in the portfolio. Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported higher results compared to fourth quarter 2006 due primarily to lower income tax ex pense. Entergy's results for the current period also reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the company's share repurchase program.
Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (ENOI) emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during second quarter 2007 and consistent with applicable consolidation accounting and reporting standards Entergy re-consolidated ENOI for financial reporting purposes effective for second quarter and retroactive to January 1, 2007. While in accordance with GAAP, 2006 will not be re-consolidated, to facilitate comparisons for earnings release purposes Pro-forma 2006 results re-consolidating ENOI will be reported. Reconciliations of this 2006 non-GAAP view to the GAAP view can be found in Appendix G.
Detailed earnings variance analyses are included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in fourth quarter 2007 was $933 million compared to $1.2 billion in fourth quarter 2006. The decrease was due primarily to the following items:
Change in net payables/receivables totaling $127 million
Absence in the current period of $81 million of Community Development Block Grant funding received by Entergy Mississippi in fourth quarter 2006
Absence in the current period of $96 million of operating cash flow proceeds from the final disposition of the sale of Entergy-Koch, LP assets.
Reduced collections of deferred fuel recovery in the current quarter totaling $65 million.
The above items were partially offset by higher net revenues at Entergy Nuclear of $97 million and lower consolidated income tax payments of $24 million.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In fourth quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $0.12 per share on as-reported and $0.19 per share on an operational basis, compared to $1.08 per share in as-reported earnings and $0.47 per share of operational earnings in fourth quarter 2006. Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in fourth quarter 2007 reflect higher income tax expense and the absence of a regulatory settlement included in fourth quarter 2006 results. Partially offsetting these items were higher revenue due to warmer-than-normal weather, higher transmission revenue, and increased recovery of capacity costs. The higher income tax expense resulted primarily from the absence in the current period of a tax benefit realized in fourth quarter 2006, as well as the effect of annual income tax adjustments occurring in the fourth quarter each year across the Entergy companies.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in fourth quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a modest increase compared to fourth quarter 2006.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 1 percent.
Industrial sales in the current quarter equaled sales for the same period one year ago.
The residential sales sector showed a modest increase quarter to quarter. While the number of customers increased with a corresponding rise in sales volume, usage per customer showed a slight decline in the quarter. The quarter-over-quarter increase in the commercial and governmental sectors reflects a similar increase in the number of customers. Sales in the industrial sector for fourth quarter 2007 equaled those for the same quarter of 2006 as the loss of one customer to cogeneration earlier in the year was offset by high utilization in the refining segment as well as some recovery in spot sales to cogeneration customers.
For the year 2007, Utility, Parent & Other earned $2.67 per share on an as-reported earnings basis, compared to $3.97 per share in 2006. Operational earnings in 2007 were $2.74 per share compared to $3.20 per share in 2006. The lower operational earnings in 2007 were driven by higher income taxes, non-fuel operation and maintenance, and interest expense. Partially offsetting factors were higher revenues from sales growth and regulatory actions, higher transmission revenue, and the positive effect of accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
2006 numbers do not tie to the 4th quarter 2006 earnings release because at that time, ENOI was being excluded.
Excludes the effect of the nuclear alignment special item recorded in 4Q07.
 
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.70 per share on as-reported basis and $0.79 on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2007, compared to $0.27 in fourth quarter 2006 for as-reported and operational earnings. The improved operational results in fourth quarter 2007 came from increased revenues from pricing, the production available from Palisades, acquired in second quarter 2007, and lower income tax expense, partially offset by higher expense primarily associated with including Palisades in the portfolio. The lower income tax expense was due primarily to a step-up in the tax basis on the Indian Point 2 non-qualified decommissioning trust fund resulting from a restructuring of the trusts. This basis change resulted in a reduction in deferred taxes on the fund and lowered current tax expense. Annual adjustments occurring in the fourth quarter of each year for income taxes also lowered income tax expense.
For the year 2007, Entergy Nuclear earned $2.66 per share on an as-reported basis and $2.75 on an operational basis, compared with $1.46 per share for 2006 on both an as-reported and operational bases. The increase in 2007 operational earnings was due primarily to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and higher generation due to the addition of Palisades to the portfolio partially offset by an increase in planned and unplanned outage days in 2007 compared to 2006.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position is 92%, 83%, and 59% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $54, $61 and $58, for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $0.14 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2007 compared to a loss of $(0.08) per share on an as-reported basis and earnings of $0.05 per share on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2006. Lower income tax expense associated with annual fourth quarter consolidated income tax adjustments was the primary driver to higher results on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
For the year 2007, Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $0.27 per share on as-reported and operational bases compared to a loss of $(0.07) per share on an as-reported basis and earnings of $0.06 per share on an operational basis in 2006. The increase in operational earnings in 2007 compared to 2006 is also due primarily to lower income tax expense.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business as usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below and in Appendix A. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2007 actual results to compute the 2008 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. 2008 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
(h) Updated January 2008 to reflect 2007 final results.
 
Key assumptions supporting 2008 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of roughly 2%
Increased revenue associated with rate actions
Decreased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to higher discount rate on benefit plans, absence of minimum bill write-offs, and lower storm reserves
Increased depreciation associated with rate base growth
Decreased interest expense as a result of receiving proceeds from Louisiana storm securitization, net of effects on interest expense of other financings
Decreased other income due primarily to absence of 2007 carrying costs reflected for storm settlements
Decreased income taxes associated with absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments
 
Entergy Nuclear
41 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 in Spring 2008, and FitzPatrick and Vermont Yankee, both in Fall 2008
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market (Additional sales after guidance was issued increased sold forward position to 92%)
$54/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published market prices in October 2007
$22.10/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense/purchased power with increase primarily due to full year of Palisades operation (acquired mid April 2007); $21.30/MWh production cost
Increased depreciation due to continued investment in nuclear fleet and full year of Palisades operation
Increased income tax expense associated with absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments, a change in New York state tax law and the step-up in tax basis from restructuring the Indian Point 2 non-quali fied decommissioning trust fund
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased income tax associated with the absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments, favorable resolution of tax audit issues, and benefits associated with project restructurings
Share Repurchase Program
2008 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 197 million
Special Items
Absence of 2007 nuclear alignment charge
Earnings guidance for 2008 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2008 results for Utility, Parent & Other. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2008. Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
V.
Business Separation
On November 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. SpinCo, the term used to identify the new company yet to be named, will be a new independent publicly traded company. In addition, SpinCo and Entergy Corporation intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
Entergy is targeting third quarter 2008 for completion of the spin-off transaction. Progress achieved since the spin-off announcement includes:
A steering committee has been formed to lead the overall process and make final recommendations on all major business and operational issues; a project management office, with a cross-section of organizational functions, has been established to coordinate the spin-off process
A supplement to Entergy's original filing with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has been provided to the NRC to reflect the spin-off transaction
Filings have been made in the states of New York and Vermont as required under the laws of those states
Additional information on the spin-off including proposed new business structure, leadership teams, business overviews, financial aspirations, and a transaction timeline including regulatory filing status are included in Appendix A of this release.
VI.
Appendices
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy's plan to separate the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analysis and details on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
Appendix A provides information on Entergy's planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business.
The announced spin-off of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business will establish two independent, publicly traded companies. SpinCo is the term being used to identify the new company yet to be named. In addition, SpinCo and Entergy Corporation intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership. Below are transaction details and other information on SpinCo, Entergy Corporation and the proposed joint venture.
New Business Structure
Once the transaction is complete, Entergy Corporation's shareholders will own 100 percent of the common equity in both SpinCo and Entergy. SpinCo's business is expected to be comprised of the non-utility nuclear assets, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station in Plymouth, Mass., the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants in Oswego and Buchanan, N.Y., respectively, the Palisades plant in Covert, Mich., and the Vermont Yankee plant in Brattleboro, Vt., and a power marketing operation. Entergy Corporation's business will be comprised of the current six regulated utility operating subsidiaries, System Energy Resources, Inc., the related services subsidiaries System Fuels, Inc., Entergy Operations, Inc. and Entergy Services, Inc., and the remaining Entergy subsidiaries. The newly created joint venture is expected to operate the nuclear assets owned by SpinCo. The joint venture is also expected to offer nuclear services to third parties, including decommissioning, p lant relicensing and plant operations for the Cooper Nuclear Station and others.
The joint venture operating structure for SpinCo ensures that the core nuclear operations expertise currently in place at each of the non-utility nuclear plants will remain after the spin-off.  Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of the non-utility nuclear plants, will remain the operator of the plants after the separation.  Entergy Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of Entergy's utility nuclear plants, will also remain in place as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy and will continue to be the operator of the utility nuclear plants.  The decision to retain the existing operators for the nuclear stations reflects Entergy's commitment to maintaining safety, security and operational excellence.
Leadership Team
The Entergy Board of Directors has approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles. The Joint Venture Board of Directors will be comprised of equal membership from both Entergy and SpinCo. Additional details on the structure and leadership will be made available in the coming months. Those assuming new roles or additional responsibilities include:
Entergy Corporation:
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mark Savoff; currently serves as Entergy's executive vice president of operations
SpinCo:
Non-Executive Chairman Donald C. Hintz; currently serves as chairman of the nuclear committee for the Entergy Board of Directors
Chief Executive Officer Richard Smith; currently serves as Entergy's president and chief operating officer
Chief Operating Officer John R. McGaha; currently serves as president of planning, development and oversight for Entergy Nuclear
Joint Venture:
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer Michael R. Kansler; currently serves as president and chief nuclear officer, Entergy Nuclear
Chief Operating Officer John Herron; currently serves as Entergy senior vice president of nuclear operations
Executive management at Entergy that remains unchanged includes:
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Wayne Leonard
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leo Denault
Group President Utility Operations Gary Taylor
Executive Vice President of External Affairs Curt Hebert
Executive Vice President and General Counsel Robert Sloan
Chief Nuclear Officer Michael Kansler
Brief Overview of Each Business
After completion of the business separation, Entergy Corporation will consist of the current six electric utility subsidiaries in four contiguous states with generating capacity of more than 22,000 megawatts and 15,000 miles of transmission lines. Entergy will be a customer service-focused electric and gas utility with a unique growth opportunity through its portfolio transformation strategy that benefits customers. The company will deliver electricity to 2.7 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas and will remain headquartered in New Orleans, LA.
SpinCo is expected to own nearly 5,000 megawatts of nuclear generation, most of which is located in the northeastern United States. This location is a very capacity constrained region both in terms of electricity generating capacity and its primary fuel input, natural gas. These factors result in the highest average regional power prices in the United States both today and expected into the future through at least 2020. SpinCo will be uniquely positioned as the only pure-play, emission-free nuclear generating company in the United States. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
The new joint venture, is expected to be owned 50 percent each by Entergy and SpinCo, and expected to have operating responsibility for SpinCo's nuclear fleet and to continue to supply contracted services currently being provided to the Nebraska Public Power District for the Cooper Nuclear Station. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
As a premier nuclear operator, the joint venture will have broad nuclear experience building and operating boiling and pressurized water reactor technologies. The joint venture is expected to be uniquely positioned to grow through offerings of nuclear operating expertise, as well as ancillary nuclear services to third parties, including plant decommissioning and relicensing.
Financial Aspirations
The companies will continue to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return. The companies believe top-quartile shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, delivering returns at or above the risk-adjusted cost of capital, maintaining credit quality and flexibility, and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirements.
Financial aspirations currently in place for Entergy today can be tailored to each of the businesses going forward. Financial aspirations for the period 2008 through 2012 include the following:
Top-quartile total shareholder return:
Entergy: 6-8% annual earnings per share growth, a 70 to 75% dividend payout ratio target, and capacity for a new share repurchase program targeted at $2.5 billion, $0.5 billion of which has already been authorized by the Entergy Board of Directors, with the balance to be authorized and to commence following completion of spin-off
SpinCo: $2 billion in earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA), a non-GAAP financial measure defined in Appendix F, for the existing non-utility nuclear fleet portfolio by 2012, assuming an average power price on open positions of roughly $95/MWh, generating cash flow for acquisitions and/or distributions through share repurchases in the range of $0.5 billion to $1 billion annually
Credit quality and flexibility to manage risk and act on opportunities:
Entergy: investment grade credit with a lower risk profile
SpinCo: strong merchant credit, relative to others (subject to market terms and conditions, SpinCo expects to execute roughly $4.5 billion of debt financing)
The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.
Transaction Timing
Entergy is targeting third quarter 2008 as the effective date for the spin-off and joint venture transactions to be completed and expects the transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders. The transactions are subject to various approvals. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the subsequent approval of the Entergy Board of Directors. In addition, as Entergy pursues completion of the separation and establishment of the joint venture, Entergy will continue to consider, in conjunction with its financial advisors, possible modifications to and variations upon the transaction structure, including a sponsored spin-off, a partial initial public offering preceding the spin-off or the addition of a third party joint venture partner. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are serving as Entergy's financial advisors in this process.
Appendices B-1 and B-2 provide details of fourth quarter and year-to-date 2007 vs. 2006 earnings variance analysis for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
The increase in the quarter is due primarily to warmer-than-normal weather, higher transmission revenue and increased recovery of capacity costs. The year-to-date period increase is due primarily to sales growth, regulat
ory actions and higher transmission revenue.
revenues at Entergy Nuclear from higher pricing and production from Palisades acquired during 2007.
Increases in the quarter and year-to-date periods are due primarily to higher
The quarter and year-to-date change is associated with carrying charges recorded in connection with storm recovery settlements in 2006 and 2007.
The quarter and year-to-date increases reflect the effect of nuclear alignment expenses with the year-to-date period also including the effect of higher expense for return to normal post-storm operations maintenance work, outage scope and schedule differences, NRC fees, property insurance, ICT implementation, and write-off of minimum bill credits.
The quarter and year-to-date periods reflect nuclear alignment expenses and the effect of adding Palisades to the portfolio in April 2007.
Reflects the absence in 2007 of a gain recorded last year associated with receipt of the final cash distribution on the sale of Entergy-Koch, LP assets.
The quarter and year-to-date increases reflect the effect of fourth quarter income tax adjustments, absence in 2007 of tax benefits associated with liquidation of the holding company owning Entergy's investment in Entergy-Koch, LP and the net tax benefit recorded in connection with the final IRS audit settlement for the year 1996-1998. The year-to-date period also includes lower benefits associated with flow through items.
the consolidated
The quarter and year-to-date periods reflect decreases due to the fourth quarter consolidated income tax adjustments, restructuring of the Indian Point 2 decommissioning trust, benefits associated with project restructurings, and absence of last year's tax expense associated with the write-off of tax capital losses. The year-to-date period also includes favorable resolution of tax audit issues and the effect of a change in New York state tax law.
Reflects accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program.
Reflects higher earnings on decommissioning trusts.
Reflects the effect of adding Palisades to the portfolio.
Reflects the effect of increased levels of plant in service at the Utility.
The increase is due to higher borrowings in connection with common stock repurchases, funding the Palisades acquisition, interest associated with securitization bonds and resumption of interest payments at Entergy New Orleans.
The decrease reflects the absence in the current period of a reduction in the decommissioning liability recorded in 2006 at Entergy Nuclear to reflect changes on probability of life extension.
 
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix G-1.
 
(x) Data has not been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007.
Data for 1Q07, 2Q07, 3Q07, 4Q07 and 07YTD reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. All other periods are not restated for this effect.
Data has been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007. 4Q07 and 07YTD exclude the effect of the nuclear alignment special.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Restated to reflect MWh billed as the denominator in the calculation.
Restated data to reflect moving purchased power from production costs to non-fuel O&M. 4Q07 and 07YTD exclude the effect of the nuclear alignment special.
 
Appendix E: Planned Capital Expenditures
Entergy's capital plan from 2008 through 2010 anticipates $5.9 billion for investment, including $2.7 billion of maintenance capital. The remaining $3.2 billion is for specific investments such as the Utility's portfolio transformation strategy (i.e., Calcasieu and Ouachita acquisitions and Little Gypsy repowering), the steam generator replacement at Entergy's Waterford 3 nuclear unit, environmental compliance spending, transmission upgrades, business function relocation, dry cask storage and nuclear license renewal projects, NYPA value sharing and other initiatives. A potentially significant item not included in these estimates is the cost associated with the proposed inter-connection between Entergy Texas and ERCOT (up to approximately $1 billion). In addition, only minimal amounts for potential new nuclear development at the Grand Gulf and River Bend sites at the Utility are included.
 
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure. Appendices G-3 through G-7 provide reconciliations of 2006 pro-forma financial statements to 2006 GAAP financial statements due to the reconsolidation of Entergy New Orleans.
Data for 1Q07, 2Q07, 3Q07 and 4Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. All other periods are not restated for this effect.
 
Data for 1Q07, 2Q07, 3Q07 and 4Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. All other periods are not restated for this effect.
 
 
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergy's Annual Report on Form 10-K under (i) Forward-Looking Statements, (ii) Item 1A. Risk Factors, (iii) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis, and (iv) Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 5, 2007
and (b) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt incurred by SpinCo and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forwa rd-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported fourth quarter 2007 as-reported earnings of $193.9 million, or 96 cents per share, compared with $268.3 million, or $1.27 per share, for fourth quarter 2006. On an operational basis, Entergy's fourth quarter 2007 earnings were $225.9 million, or $1.12 per share, compared with $166.9 million, or 79 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2006.
For the year, Entergy's as-reported earnings were $1.1 billion, or $5.60 per share, and operational earnings were $1.2 billion, or $5.76 per share. These results compare with 2006 as-reported earnings of $1.1 billion, or $5.36 per share, and operational earnings of $997.7 million, or $4.72 per share.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings primarily due to higher income tax expense.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from pricing, production from the Palisades plant acquired in second quarter 2007, and lower income tax expense.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported higher results due primarily to lower income tax expense.
"2007 closed with constructive resolution of numerous regulatory matters positioning our utility to advance its growth strategy," said . "In addition, the actions necessary to complete the planned non-utility nuclear spin-off remain on track for a third quarter 2008 close. Consistent with that, the Entergy Board of Directors has granted authority for $0.5 billion of the anticipated post-spin $2.5 billion share repurchase program."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy won three awards from Edison Electric Institute including an Emergency Assistance Award for power restoration efforts following a January 2007 ice storm in Oklahoma, as well as an Advocacy Excellence Award for its low-income initiative and an Outstanding Achievement Award for grassroots nuclear advocacy efforts in New York.
Final approvals were received and the separation was completed of Entergy Gulf States into two distinct companies, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C., and a Texas company, Entergy Texas, Inc.
Entergy Nuclear supplemented its filing with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the spin-off transaction and made related regulatory filings in New York and Vermont.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CST on Tuesday, Jan. 29, 2008, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 8984015. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 8984015. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at www.entergy.com.
In fourth quarter 2007, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $25.1 million, or 12 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and $38.8 million, or 19 cents per share, on an operational basis, compared to as-reported earnings of $226.6 million, or $1.08 per share, and operational earnings of $97.5 million, or 47 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2006. Earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in fourth quarter 2007 reflect higher income tax expense and the absence of a regulatory settlement included in fourth quarter 2006 results. Partially offsetting these items were higher revenue due to warmer-than-normal weather, higher transmission revenue, and increased recovery of capacity costs. The higher income tax expense resulted primarily from the absence in the current period of a tax benefit realized in fourth quarter 2006, as well as the effect of annual income tax adjustments occurring in the fourth quarter each year across the Entergy companies.
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in fourth quarter 2007, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a modest increase compared to fourth quarter 2006. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up 1 percent. Industrial sales in the current quarter equaled sales for the same period one year ago.
The residential sales sector showed a modest increase quarter to quarter. While the number of customers increased with a corresponding rise in sales volume, usage per customer showed a slight decline in the quarter. The quarter-over-quarter increase in the commercial and governmental sectors reflects a similar increase in the number of customers. Sales in the industrial sector for fourth quarter 2007 equaled those for the same quarter of 2006 as the loss of one customer to cogeneration earlier in the year was offset by high utilization in the refining segment as well as some recovery in spot sales to cogeneration customers.
For the year 2007, Utility, Parent & Other earned $540.9 million, or $2.67 per share, on an as-reported basis, compared to $838.8 million, or $3.97 per share, in 2006. Operational earnings in 2007 were $554.6 million, or $2.74 per share, compared to $676.2 million, or $3.20 per share, in 2006. The lower operational earnings in 2007 were driven by higher income taxes, non-fuel operations and maintenance, and interest expense. Partially offsetting factors were higher revenues from sales growth and regulatory actions, higher transmission revenue, and the positive effect of accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program.
Entergy Nuclear earned $141.4 million, or 70 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and $159.8 million, or 79 cents per share, on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2007, compared to $57.7 million, or 27 cents per share, for as-reported and operational earnings in fourth quarter 2006. The improved operational results in fourth quarter 2007 came from increased revenues from pricing, the production available from Palisades, which was acquired in second quarter 2007, and lower income tax expense, partially offset by higher expense primarily associated with including Palisades in the portfolio. The lower income tax expense was primarily due to a step-up in the tax basis on the Indian Point 2 non-qualified decommissioning trust fund resulting from a restructuring of the trusts. This basis change resulted in a reduction in deferred taxes on the fund and lowered current tax expense. Annual adjustments in the fourth quarter of each year for consolidated income taxes also lowered income tax expense.
For the year 2007, Entergy Nuclear earned $539.2 million, or $2.66 per share, on an as-reported basis and $557.6 million, or $2.75 per share, on an operational basis, compared with $309.5 million, or $1.46 per share, for 2006 on both as-reported and operational bases. The increase in 2007 operational earnings was primarily due to increased revenue from higher contract pricing and higher generation due to the addition of Palisades to the portfolio. It was partially offset by an increase in planned and unplanned outage days in 2007 compared to 2006.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $27.4 million, or 14 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2007, compared to a loss of $16.0 million, or 8 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and earnings of $11.7 million, or 5 cents per share, on an operational basis in fourth quarter 2006. Lower income tax expense associated with annual consolidated income tax adjustments was the primary driver to higher results on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
For the year 2007, Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $54.8 million, or 27 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases, compared to a loss of $15.7 million, or 7 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and earnings of $12.0 million, or 6 cents per share, on an operational basis in 2006. The increase in operational earnings in 2007 compared to 2006 is also primarily due to lower income tax expense.
Entergy is reaffirming 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business as usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below.
On Nov. 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. SpinCo, the term used to identify the new company yet to be named, will be a new independent publicly traded company. In addition, SpinCo and Entergy Corporation intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
Entergy is targeting third quarter 2008 for completion of the spin-off transaction. Progress achieved since the spin-off announcement includes:
A steering committee has been formed to lead the overall process and make final recommendations on all major business and operational issues; a project management office, with a cross-section of organizational functions, has been established to coordinate the spin-off process.
A supplement to Entergy's original filing with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has been provided to the NRC to reflect the spin-off transaction.
Filings have been made in the states of New York and Vermont as required under the laws of those states.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 14,500 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated Jan. 29, 2008, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergy's Annual Report on Form 10-K under (i) Forward-Looking Statements, (ii) Item 1A. Risk Factors, (iii) Item 7. Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis, and (iv) Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 5, 2007 and (b) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt incurred by SpinCo and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the propo sed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items." Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing resu lts of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, and net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
Another non-GAAP measure presented in the Releases is EBITDA. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measurement Entergy has used to gauge SpinCo's future operating performance. Entergy defines EBITDA as net earnings before the cumulative effect of interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and other regulatory charges. EBITDA is provided as a measure of SpinCo's future performance and debt-service capacity that may be useful to securities analysis, investors and others. EBITDA is not, however, a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP measure, information to reconcile EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time. Moreover, EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies.
In addition, the Releases use, and Exhibit 99.1 presents, 2006 pro forma financial statements that have been adjusted to reflect Entergy New Orleans on a consolidated basis. This is a non-GAAP presentation that management believes is useful to investors in comparing Entergy's 2007 operating performance and financial position to Entergy's 2006 operating performance and financial position.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


